ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e149	The representatives of Ingvild Wetterhus Thorsvik, Trond Helleland, Lise Christoffersen, Morten Wold, Lise Selnes, Even Eriksen, Linda Hofstad Helleland and Ingerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The invited alternate of Akershus, Tobias Hangaard Linge, is now taking the seat. By the Socialist Group of the Left Party, the application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Mona Fagerås has been submitted from 3 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The vara representative, Christian Torset, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e201	Christian Torset is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e212	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will put forward three motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e217	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative not to assist in retrieving adult terrorists to Norway. Then I will put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug and myself for a temporary stop in receiving quota refugees. And last but not least, I want to make a representative proposal on behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Himanshu Gulati and myself on the establishment of asylum recipients abroad by Danish or British model.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e226	The representative of Guri Melby will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e231	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Raja, Sveinung Rotevatn, Ola Elvestuen, Grunde Almeland and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new Norwegian EU investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e236	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. With reference to Section 68 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose to depart from the general procedure for Question Time in Case No 68. 6 and 7 are treated together. The two interpellations concern the same theme and are addressed to two state councils. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 7 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the two interpellants get up to 10 minutes each. Then the two state councils get up to 10 minutes each. It then opens for up to 15 posts of 5 minutes from other representatives. Finally, the inter-pellants and the state councils are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e277	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e291	In ten days, on May 13th, it was 74 years since Winston Churchill stood here and spoke to the Stortinget. Europe and the world had left behind the worst war in history just three years earlier. Hitler's tyranny was shattered. In the west, democracy had won. Churchill used the opportunity to highlight to me what is at the heart of democracy: the parliamentary system. Churchill then said that the parliamentary system ensures that the government and its members are the servants of the people, not the rulers of the people. About as he stood here talking, the Communists took over the power of Czechoslovakia – supported and orchestrated by a dictator in Moscow. The National Assembly in Prague was converted into a doll theater without real influence, and the government became the brutal rulers of the people, not the people's servants. Similar developments took place in the rest of Eastern Europe. Today, Ukraine is fighting for life and death to preserve its democracy and independence. As President Zelenskyj expressed when he spoke to the Stortinget on 30 March: Ukraine is fighting to protect our state and our lifestyle – democratic, free, with full protection of the rights and freedoms of all. Once again there is a leader in Moscow with distorted thoughts of his own greatness and nationalism trying to crush democracy. In Norway, most of us take democracy and peace for granted. Recent developments in Europe have given us a brutal reminder that neither democracy nor peace are obvious. That's something we have to fight for, stand up for – every single day. The essence of that struggle is the will of the people, represented by us, in particular Parliament, which is elected by the people. In Norway we have a parliament that we can be proud of, a great one that has been promoting peace, freedom and democracy for 208 years – not only in Norway but also in other parts of the world. Today, the terms ‘Europe’ and ‘democratic values’ are very closely linked, values such as peace, freedom, democracy and human rights. That is why Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine is a turning point in European history. It's not just an attack on Ukraine. It's also an attack on our values. Democratic Europe has blackened. The EU shows new and concrete relevance as a security policy actor. Putin's brutal war has strengthened the European community of values and European cohesion. The war has marked our cooperation with the EU this six months, and it will further affect the path of government's European policy. Norway has to deal with the EU's pace shift in key policy areas. It can also affect our working space in cooperation. I would therefore like to focus today on the broad lines of our European policy. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine has already had consequences for the EU's security and defence policy. But there are also challenges related to energy supply and Europe's economic situation. The war also affects Europe's green giving, conversion, democracy and the rule of law. Twice a year, I report to the Stortinget about our relationship with the EU and the EEA. It's an extensive relationship. I don't cover all the aspects of the relationship in every account. This time it's natural enough for me to focus on the war in Ukraine. The EU has stood and stands united in the reaction to Russia’s war of aggression. The entire EU toolbox is in use. As the Prime Minister said in his speech to the Stortinget on March 3: ‘The European Union’s normative, economic, political and legislative powers have never been stronger.’ Norway’s response to the invasion has also been stronger — and has become stronger. The EU quickly adopted the most comprehensive sanction package they have ever introduced. It is now hitting the Russian economy hard. The consequences are tough for many EU Member States as well. But cohesion within the EU continues. Norway has joined the EU’s sanctions against Russia and Belarus. This is how we contribute to a strong and comprehensive European response. The government has imposed sanctions not because of the EU, but for the same reason as the EU. The aim is to stop the financing of the war machine, to prevent Russia from accessing technology, knowledge, goods and services that can be used for warfare, to punish those involved in the war, by freezing their financial resources and properties, to deprive them of the right to travel in Norway and other European countries. Only one EU action has not been implemented in Norwegian law, and there is the ban on Russia Today, RT, and Sputnik. That's because our constitution prohibits pre-sensorship. Blocking RT and Sputnik could therefore be unconstitutional, even though we know that both are actually propaganda machines for Putin's regime. We have joined the EU decision on the closure of ports for Russian vessels and the ban on Russian road transport. The port ban covers ships of more than 500 gross tonnage sailing commercially on international voyages, yachts and some pleasure craft and recreational craft. The prohibition does not cover fishing vessels and will not normally include search and rescue vessels or research vessels. The prohibition is implemented for ports in mainland Norway and applies from 7 May. The ban on the carriage of goods by road will apply to transport undertakings established in Russia and will apply immediately. Exemptions are made for universal mail. In addition, it is possible for transport undertakings to apply to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for exemptions for the transport of certain goods, such as: medical and agricultural products. Ukraine is fighting a defence war against Russian invasion forces. We support Ukraine in this fight. Like many other European countries, Norway has sent arms and military equipment. For the first time in history, the EU also provides this kind of support to another country. EUR 1 billion has been allocated to military assistance to Ukraine. The EU Member State finances the weapons through the European Peace Facility. In addition, the United Kingdom has established a mechanism for the purchase of arms and military materials to Ukraine. As the Prime Minister explained in the Stortinget last week, the government will grant 400 million. kr through this mechanism. The need for civil and humanitarian aid is enormous, both in Ukraine and in neighbouring countries. The need for coordination is great. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism has been a very effective channel. Norway participates here by means of the EEA Agreement. Through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, Norway has made a total of 365 million available. kr for material support and medical assistance. Through this channel, we have sent surgical materials, infectious diseases, medicines and ambulances to Ukraine. To Moldova and Slovakia we have sent equipment for refugee reception: tents, beds and medicine. Through the scheme, we have also been able to transfer Ukrainian patients to Norwegian hospitals. A Norwegian ambulance aircraft is available to the EU for the medical evacuation of Ukrainian patients to Norway and other European countries. As part of the EU monitoring, Norway has reported that Norwegian hospitals can currently receive around 550 Ukrainian patients requiring hospital treatment and their relatives. With family this will mean evacuation of up to 2 750 people. Norwegian health professionals have also participated in health teams on missions in the region to contribute to the evacuation of patients. We have also opened up some of the EEA funds to address the handling of Ukrainian refugees in the recipient countries. It takes place in close dialogue with the recipient countries and within the framework of the EEA funds. It is important for us that the EEA funds do not operate in a vacuum, but can take over the changed realities in several of our recipient countries, as they now experience. Ukraine has, as Moldova and Georgia have done, applied for EU membership. The application has been received and is treated in an ordinary manner within the institutions of the European Union. It is of great symbolic and strategic importance both for Ukraine and for the rest of Europe. The fact that these countries are turning towards the EU as a kind of geopolitical port gives a great deal of responsibility to the EU. In line with previous practice, Norway will provide assistance to these countries in a way that supports their integration into European cooperation. The need for resources in Ukraine will be enormous for many years to come. The government therefore establishes an ambitious and long-term commitment. It extends beyond the duration of the crisis and into a future reconstruction phase. We are doing this in close and close cooperation with the EU. We've put off 2 billion. for assistance to Ukraine and neighbouring countries. In the first phase of the war, we have been among the greatest humanitarian donors, including in absolute numbers. 1.8 B.C.E. kr is distributed, and most of it has been paid. One hundred million. kr is earmarked for Moldova. Support mainly goes through the UN and humanitarian organisations with experience in such crisis areas. We thought the stories of large refugee flows and potential famines in Europe were just that: history, like the disasters in Ukraine in the 1920s and 1930s, where Fridtjof Nansen and Prime Minister Johan Ludwig Mowinckel joined forces. Now we are witnessing the greatest flow of refugees in Europe since World War II. Russia's warfare has sent over 12 million people on the run. Many of them are internally displaced. Many of them are children and other vulnerable people. From the outset, Norway has worked closely with the EU to get an overview of this situation. Persons displaced from Ukraine may receive temporary protection here in Norway. Norwegian municipalities and communities have set up and accepted refugees, as the Prime Minister explained last week. The Government is committed to contributing to the allocation of refugees within the European framework. We participate, among other things: in crisis management meetings with the EU institutions and Member States. We have offered a transfer of 2,500 displaced persons from Moldova. As the Prime Minister said, many of these want to remain in order to return quickly when possible. But we don't know how the situation develops. Russia's war in Ukraine has particularly affected EU cooperation in two policy areas: security and defence and energy and climate. The basis for development was laid before the war in Ukraine. Over several years, the EU has strengthened cooperation to make Member States less vulnerable and dependent and more effective in meeting increasingly tougher international competition. The pandemic has also strengthened this need. The EU has already set a course to achieve climate objectives in a way that transforms the economy and society in what we will call a comprehensive way. NATO's role as a collective defence alliance has also been strengthened. NATO remains the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy. During the war we have seen a good division of labour and coordination between NATO and the EU. Many European countries are now increasing their defence budgets. Germany has already adopted a sharp increase. EU cooperation on security and defence has been progressively strengthened in recent years. Norway has been linked to many EU initiatives as they have been adopted. This applies not least to the European Defence Fund, where we participate through the EEA Agreement. This is now an important tool for EU countries to increase their defence investments. Being here strengthens the Norwegian defence industry's access to the European defence market. It's good for our safety, it's good for our industry, and it's good for Norwegian jobs. We are also participating in a project on military mobility under the enhanced EU defence cooperation, PESCO. In crisis or war, it is absolutely essential that we be able to move personnel and materials across borders quickly. The EU sits here on many of the solutions. No other country cooperates as closely with the EU on security and defence as Norway. That's a line we want to continue. The new EU strategy on security and defence, called the EU strategic compass, was adopted in March. The plan sets out the framework for the development of the EU as a security and defence policy actor by 2030. It contains concrete and time-consuming measures to strengthen the EU’s operational role, resilience, what is called capabilities, and partnership. Many areas of the EU's strategic compass affect Norwegian interests. We have had close dialogue with the EU in the preparation of this concrete document. It is therefore no surprise that Norway is referred to in the adopted strategic compass as the EU's closest partner. Europe's green giver now also has a security policy dimension, or a dimension of freedom, as it is called in Germany. The war has seriously highlighted Europe’s dependence on Russian energy supplies, a Russia that is increasingly using energy supplies as a means of pressurising its foreign policy. It's profoundly problematic. Last week Russia stopped its gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria. Then they got one day's notice. Over half of the gas Poland imported came from Russian Gazprom. 40 pst. EU gas consumption is covered by imports from Russia. Poland has gas reserves that are likely to meet their needs out of the year. The agreement with Gazprom then expires and Norwegian gas can be taken over. In the long term, Norway, through the Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, will supply half of Poland’s gas needs. It says something about Norway’s role in the situation we are now facing. Norwegian gas supplies to Europe are no longer just about economics. It is also about European security policy. Russian gas exports add very large revenues to the Russian state – revenues used to finance the war. It restricts our room for action in the face of the increased security threat from Russia. It is therefore in the Norwegian interest to contribute to a reduction in Europe’s dependence on Russian energy. Norway is already an important contributor to the energy supply of the EU and Europe. We are the EU's second largest gas supplier and supply the EU between 20 and 25 pst. of the total gas needs of the EU countries. Norwegian gas exports to Europe are now going too far. Gas production on Norwegian soil is not limited either by demand or by infrastructure, but by how much the various fields can deliver. Also the export of oil goes as normal. We must remain a safe and reliable supplier of gas and oil to Europe. But we have to make Europe less dependent on Russian energy, and it requires new action from the EU and its Member States. The approach is to reduce energy dependence, improve own security of supply, which is also important, while accelerating the green shift. More and more investment will be made in the transition to renewable energy in Europe. On 8 March the European Commission presented a very ambitious plan for this, called the ‘RePower EU’. This plan involves not only gas supplies from sources other than Russia, but also increased hydrogen, biomethane and solar energy, combined with energy efficiency improvement. A faster deployment of alternative energy sources for Europe will become very important in the future. This was also the theme when the Prime Minister met Germany's Vice Chancellor Habeck in Oslo on 16 March. Our contribution to Europe is made through green conversion in Norway and green export industries. This work is carried out in the future by, among others. the additional energy notification message, the green industrial promise and the export effort ‘Hele Norway Exports’. These are linked to the strategic industrial partnership with the EU, which was launched by Prime Minister Støre and Commission President von der Leyen in Brussels on 23 February. Specific areas of mutual interest are the development of hydrogen, sea wind, carbon capture and storage, minerals, batteries and green shipping. These are areas that are very important for achieving our climate objectives and for strengthening competitiveness and strategic autonomy in Europe. We agree with the EU on how to make it easier for Norwegian companies to contribute to the greening of Europe. Norway has a lot to contribute to this. For us, closer industrial cooperation with the EU will also contribute to Norwegian industrial development and value creation. It is important because Norwegian value creation and well-being are strongly exposed to the development of the European economy. That is why it is in our interest for EU countries to succeed in their economic response to the Ukraine crisis. It is also in our interest that the EU succeeds in achieving the objectives of increased strategic autonomy, green shifts and digital transformation. In addition to speeding up cooperation in the field of security and energy, Russia’s warfare involves a roadblock in the fight to secure the liberal values on which European democracies are based. The Russian propaganda machine is too full to target not only its own population, but also the outside world. You try to legitimize the war by spreading disinformation and propaganda. Liberal democracy has long been a sweet goal for Russian propaganda, where the ideals and progress of the West have been sought discredited for spreading fear and uncertainty, divisive opinion and weakening the confidence of democratically elected governments. Why do they want to weaken democracy? The former President of the European Parliament, the Italian social democrat David Maria Sassoli, who unfortunately went away earlier this year, had a very good answer to that. Sassoli once asked: Have you ever wondered why all authoritarian regimes are so afraid of Europe? European countries don't start wars, we don't push our model on other countries, so why are they afraid of us? He asked that before he himself answered his own question: there is only one reason. Our values save them because freedom leads to equality, justice, transparency, opportunities and peace. And when it has happened in Europe, it can happen anywhere. One point of light is that illiberal democracy and association with authoritarian leaders seem to have lost their appeal in several European countries. We see that many politicians in Europe who have openly sympathized with Putin are now going very quietly in the doors. At the same time, we must not forget that polarization has not disappeared. It's just less visible. In the middle of the ongoing triumph of cohesion in Europe, there is a political debate in many European countries, where alternatives to liberal democracies are promoted by the outer right and outer left. Now, the relationship we're experiencing has not removed this polarization. Democracy and the rule of law must be protected, and reinforced efforts must be made. In the Hurdal platform, the government is clear that we stand up for these values. On 3 April, the elections were held for a new national assembly in Hungary. The Fidesz alliance with Prime Minister Orbán at the head got well over half of the votes. The alliance has retained two thirds of the seats in the national Parliament. The development of democracy and the rule of law in Hungary remains a concern. In February this year, the European Court of Justice gave a green light to breaches of the rule of law to transfers from the EU budget. The Commission has recently activated this mechanism against Hungary. It is important and good that the European Union reacts. It is also good news for Norway as an EEA country and contributes to social and economic development in Europe through EEA funds. Democracy and the rule of law are something we will be clear about when we start negotiations with the EU on a new period of EEA funds. A completely central prerequisite for a new period must be to put in place an even more robust mechanism to maintain the values underlying the cooperation. In this respect, we will pay particular attention to the new tools established by the European Union against undermining democracy and the rule of law in the Member States. We expect to start negotiations during the spring. The changes in Europe in the last six months are therefore significant. At the same time, NATO has strengthened its position as a defence salliance. Our Nordic neighbours are assessing strategic choices. Sweden and Finland discuss membership of NATO. On 1 June, Denmark shall hold a referendum on the conclusion of EU cooperation in the field of defence and security. The decisions in our Nordic neighbouring countries will affect us and our policy design in the future. Nordic cooperation is bottom-solid. That's how it should go on. It is also good for Europe and wider European cooperation. Ever since my predecessor Halvard Lange signed the Atlantic Pact in 1949, NATO has been the carrier of Norwegian security policy. We are totally dependent on the alliance of collective security and effective deterrence. However, along many other security policy dimensions, the EU has the means. During the war, we have learned that a strong and united Europe strengthens a united response to Russia. For Norway, this means that our existing agreements and cooperation arrangements with the EU have become much more important in terms of security policy than in the past. It gives us a strong interest in contributing to the success of the EU in keeping countries together on fundamental values and rules of play, the success of the EU in strengthening European action and reducing our common vulnerability and dependence. It also reminds us of the importance of maintaining the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and our other cooperation agreements with the European Union. It is in the day-to-day work on the early impact of policies and legislation that we best promote Norwegian interests. It is in the day-to-day work to implement joint commitments that we lay the basis for well-functioning European cooperation. At the same time, we feel that new EU initiatives and policies are not necessarily covered by our cooperation arrangements. The EEA Agreement makes Norway an equivalent partner in the EU internal market. This became very important to us during the pandemic. We have unique cooperation on the European regulatory system for medicinal products and their free movement. The agreement and cooperation mattered to us in concrete crisis management. I would like to mention three examples. The EEA Agreement provided a basis for the continued free movement of protective equipment and essential supplies to Norwegian hospitals. We then benefited from the EU vaccine acquisition system. Later, we achieved a simultaneous implementation of Corona certificates for the EU and the EEA, which facilitated our travel opportunities. Other countries without the same legal basis and cooperation arrangements had to establish alternative legal bases to create clarity and predictability. In some cases, this delayed access to both vaccines and corona certificates. Even small countries such as Andorra and San Marino, with particular geographical and other proximity to some EU countries, experienced the latter. San Marino first chose to acquire Sputnik vaccines from Russia, but later received deliveries from Italy. In order to be best equipped for the next health crisis, we are therefore seeking an agreement to ensure Norwegian participation when the EU is now developing further and strengthening its cooperation in health preparedness. It is also the clear recommendation of the Corona Commission in the report submitted last week. However, the outcome is not given. If we're to succeed, we have to show added value, and we have to show the will to contribute. In times of crisis, it is therefore important that we step up cooperation with the EU and the EU Member States, that we make constructive contributions, show relevance and ensure participation in meetings that discuss common crisis measures. This effort is absolutely crucial. This is how we ensure that Norwegian positions are taken into account in policy-making that has a direct impact on the citizens of Norway, on Norway’s welfare and on Norway’s safety. The development we have seen in the last six months will also impose new demands on the EEAS. We need increased competences and efforts at the intersection of European policies and security policies. We therefore need to review the configuration here at home and at central European stations in order to ensure that we are best equipped to influence and promote Norwegian interests. Yesterday, 30 years ago, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Bjørn Tore Godal signed the EEA Agreement in Porto. Later that year, it was adopted by a three-quarters majority in the Grand Duchy. It had a solid democratic anchoring, but it has always been a good discussion about the EEA Agreement and how it affects us here in Norway. Therefore, the Hurdals Platform government has announced that it is seeking an investigation into the experience of EEA cooperation in the last 10 years. The investigation shall assess the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian citizens, the economy — including its relevance to the Norwegian working life model — and a decent working life. The investigation should also assess how the scope of cooperation is exploited and how the obligations of the agreement are implemented here in Norway. We also want to look at the experience of other related countries outside the EU from their relationship with European cooperation. The war in Europe suggests that the investigation must also consider EEA cooperation as a platform for foreign and security cooperation with the EU and how European policy is best organised in due time. That is why we have ordered work from a sample that will provide us with a report before Christmas in 2023. During the spring, the government will also present its work programme for cooperation with the EU. European cooperation is more important than for a long time. In Europe, climate policy has become a security policy. Energy policy has become a matter of freedom and autonomy. EU decisions have become more comprehensive and affect more and more parts of society. If our neighbours Sweden and Finland decide to apply for NATO membership, it will be positive for Nordic defence cooperation. In the last two months, the EU has proved to be more effective and more action-oriented than anyone, even those in Brussels, could have imagined. In a short time, they coordinated sanctions against Russia, not only among their own members, but also with other international partners. In a few weeks’ time, the EU bureaucrat, often accused of being insistent, has established mechanisms that have never been used, to assist humanitarian aid and to assist Ukrainian refugees and the Ukrainian defence. Last, but not least, the European Union, indicated by Germany's clear and new ambitions, has speeded up Europe's green economy. All this will affect Norway and Norwegian European policy in the years to come. Our geography, our Nordic and European identity, our values and our open economy will make us part of this. That's something we have to deal with. Energy, security and green solutions are something we can do. We are among the best in the world. Developments in the EU create new and wide opportunities for Norwegian business and Norwegian influence. But it requires us to be on the ball and ensure that our interests are safeguarded in cooperation with the EU. That is what the government's European policy must ensure. We do best to do so in cooperation with Stortinget. To quote Churchill again when he spoke here in 1948: I want your security, I want your peace, I want your freedom. I'm sure that for all these purposes the Storting will prove to be the most effective human instrument that can be thought of. I look forward to further dialogue with the Storting on how best to develop a European policy that will benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e474	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Council in Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e492	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e499	The Committee on Legal Affairs has examined this proposal from the Environment Party. I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their cooperation in dealing with this matter. In this case, it is proposed that the government be asked to ensure that Norwegian children and women living in detention camps in Syria can come to Norway as soon as possible. The proposal is justified by the fact that the humanitarian situation in the camps is very serious and that the children growing up there are strongly exposed to radicalisation. Furthermore, the proposers point out that the UN Special Rapporteur has strongly criticised Norway for not bringing the children to Norway. The proposers also believe that there are a number of considerations that address bringing the children to Norway with their mothers and that the main concern is the best interests of their children. Reference is made to the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which show that the humanitarian and security situation in the camps is considered to be very serious, that children growing up there are exposed to radicalisation and that further residence in the camps is harmful. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that there is no international legal obligation to actively repatriate women and children from Syria. She further points out that a necessary condition for the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and for the subsequent liability of the State is that the State has jurisdiction. She further points out that since the children of Norwegian citizens in the Syrian camps are not in Norwegian jurisdiction, the situation must therefore be resolved on a different basis from that of the country's obligations under international law. The Committee's recommendation is that the draft representative should not be adopted. I assume that the proposers and each of the other parties will explain their views on the matter. I then went over to my post on the matter. I would like to express my full support for this proposal by the Environment Party. The best interests of children shall be the basis for all assessments and actions by the public concerning children. The four children concerned in this case have all Norwegian citizenship, and the Norwegian authorities therefore have a duty to assist, including consular assistance, in getting the children out of the detention camps and home to Norway. The situation in the camps is such that more human rights are not respected, in particular children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, including the right to life, health, training, etc. Not least are the children deprived of their freedom. UNE has done something wrong. The obligation of Member States to ensure rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child may not be confined to the territory of that State, in order to ensure international cooperation in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. No matter what it may be said whether Norway is obliged by international law to bring the children home or not, Norwegian authorities have the full opportunity to bring the children here, even if they are not legally bound to do so. A few years ago, I visited a refugee camp in Palestine. This is the first time I have understood – and seen – radicalisation in practice. The risk of radicalisation by remaining in the camps is high, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Clearly, it is best for children to be brought home to Norway, and being separated from their parents against their will is not in the best interests of their children either. To be separated from their mothers could be enough of a traumatic event for the children. When it comes to the mothers of the children, and the fourth woman who is under the examination of the PST, I believe that it is not beneficial for them to remain in Syria, considering the danger of further radicalisation. National security reasons suggest that Norway is best served to bring them home from the camps in Syria so that they can be prosecuted, followed up and de-addicated here at home. The main safety threat to Norway posed by these women is if they remain in Syria. In conclusion, I would like to show that Germany has for some time brought home 27 children and their mothers, and that in October 2021 Denmark and Germany brought home 23 children and 8 women and 14 children and 3 women respectively. In this context, it seems strange that Norwegian authorities are not going to be able to bring home four children and their mothers. I bring this up with our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e520	The representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e525	There is no doubt that this is a matter that arouses feelings, and there is no doubt that there are very difficult conditions in the detention camps in Syria, and that that is all cause for concern. That's why it arouses so strong feelings and so many people know a solution to power. Power solution is not a good feeling, and there is no easy solution to this matter either. Yet, an action is desirable. I think it's important to recognize that this is a complex situation. We should avoid actions without in-depth knowledge and understanding of complexity. This is largely about what decision the Stortinget should or should not take in a case like this. It's not that we have a universal obligation to bring women and children from Syria, but that doesn't mean we can't do it either. However, the State must have jurisdiction in order for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be applied and for the State to have a responsibility after him. Children of Norwegian citizens in Syria are not in Norwegian jurisdiction, i.e. that we have no authority to enforce. This had to be resolved on a different basis than obligations under international law. These include: This makes this a complex situation. Norwegian citizens abroad are privileged in such a way that we can rely to a large extent on good consular assistance from our foreign service if we need it. There is assistance provided after individual assessments on each case. Of course, it is voluntary to ask for consular assistance and, where appropriate, to receive such assistance. It is also such that parents with parental responsibility make decisions for their own children. As I said, there is a lot of concern about bringing the children to Norway, but it requires parental consent. We have a good foreign service, with extensive experience in dealing with difficult and demanding consular matters. As mentioned earlier, this matter is largely about what kind of decisions the Stortinget should or should not do in a case like this. Then I think that we should take the signal in the Council of State's response to the Committee: ‘it would be unfortunate if the Stortinge were to decide on the handling of any consular matter.’;» [[...]] That means I'm a very right and wise assessment in this case. At this point, the majority of the Committee considers that the proposal for a representative is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e543	It is very encouraging to listen to the voices that characterise the debate about so-called return to Norway for IS women. This is simply because there are a lot of things where children are involved, where children, for example. sent to Koran School — and we all know how bad conditions can be there — there are children who are being sent illegally to abroad, who in some way are being kidnapped by their parents. There are many children in unacceptable situations and where the state is not doing enough to care for the interests of children and the best of their children. But in this case, where there is talk of people who have contributed to and contributed to a terrorist organization that has committed assaults that are among the worst we have seen in history in recent times – yes, then you choose to engage, and engage with these women. It is completely incomprehensible, both from a legal perspective and not least from a justice perspective. Why all this effort, all that use of resources, all this commitment to people who have traveled voluntarily and participated in the service of the IS, committed acts of terrorism and contributed to this cruel terrorist organisation being allowed to exist and commit atrocities? Why does this show the involvement of these people? It's incomprehensible. I understand the commitment of the children. Yes, children are innocent, you can bring them back. But these women really have nothing on Norwegian soil to do again after they have chosen to serve the cruel terrorist organization IS. It is very strange to listen to the debate that is here today. One thing is that the Greens and Greens clearly agree on this issue – I think that is interesting – but it is a little strange to listen to the representative Hovland from the Workers' Party, who is talking against this case and that these people are going to be picked up in Norway. The reason for this is that it is not that long ago, April 21, that we could read in the Online Newspaper: ‘Information for the Online Newspaper: IS women in Syria turn – will not be picked up to Norway’, and that was after the government had agreed to bring Aisha Shazadi terrorists to Norway. So the government has agreed to bring these women to Norway – I choose to trust Nettavisen, I guess they have good sources for their cause. That means that the government has made that decision. The only thing that has prevented the implementation of that decision is that for some reason the woman has chosen to turn around and yet does not want to travel to Norway. This is very alarming, and I hope to hear the Foreign Minister explain this and tell Stortinget what the government has actually done in this matter. Is it so that the government wants to bring these terrorists to Norway? Is it such that the government has had a secret intention of it, and so has it been stopped by other, external reasons, by the terrorists themselves? And in that case, what is the reason why these terrorists do not want to return to Norway? There are a lot of questions that we don't know how to answer, but this is an excellent opportunity for the government, for the Foreign Minister, to solve this. There has been a government crisis on similar issues in Norway. It could happen again. It is very serious if the government has entered into such an agreement and has chosen only to sub-communicate it and not to tell the public because it would be unpleasant. We have to get an answer to that during today's debate. But anyway, let's use the energy to help Norwegian citizens abroad who actually deserve our help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e556	In this case, the Right supports the government's assessments, in order to make it easy. Regardless of the part of the matter that the chairman of the committee is now trying to pull up, I could have said exactly the same thing as the representative Hovland said in his statement. That is a good reason to vote against this proposal. And it's unfortunate if the Storting should make decisions on how to deal with one or more consular items. It's up to the government to handle it. Right find no reason to help people who have themselves chosen to associate specifically with international terrorist organisations, but there is actually a siding in the principal aspects of this case, namely that we should not go into individual cases on the part of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e561	Let me start by commending the proposers for raising this matter on Stortinget. This is a matter that has been going on for several years. As early as April 2019, we in SV promoted a proposal to facilitate the arrival in Norway of all Norwegian children of parents associated with IS, and to ensure good follow-up after returning to Norway. We have a international, humanitarian and moral responsibility for children of Norwegian citizens who are in difficult situations. The Progress Party has already said in this debate that the children would like to come, without their parents. It is not acceptable to require Norwegian parents to declare their parental right and to remain in the refugee camp in order to allow children with surviving parents to be brought to Norway. Putting people in a situation of coercion is difficult to see that there are legal grounds or the necessary reasons for doing so. The rights of children shall not be disregarded for the political need to exclude from the country nationals who have committed very serious acts. That's not how modern jurisdiction works. The courts are the ones to judge, and Norway has a law with criminal provisions covering these situations. We believe it is important that the children return to Norway as soon as possible. Save the children have been out by today and requested that we bring these kids home. We believe it is important for parents to be handed over to Norway so that we are punished and cared for the children. It is a wish of the local population that countries such as Norway take responsibility. The Progress Party has already argued with the serious atrocities committed by the ISIS terrorist organisation, so perhaps we should listen to those who suffered the terrible crimes against the population that ISIS did. They ask us to take responsibility and criminal prosecution, which they do not have the capacity to do in the neighbourhoods. They ask Norway to take responsibility in such situations. These are our children. They're few, they're Norwegian, and that's our responsibility. We cannot allow children to suffer from detention camps in the certainty that they do not have sufficient sanitary conditions and are at all living under a very high risk of their health being seriously impaired. I'm pretty sure the story is going to judge us if we don't do what we can for these kids to come home. On the basis of this, I would like to support the proposal for a representative and stress the urgent need to bring the children and mothers home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e572	Thank you to the Committee for the work on our proposal for a representative. For more than three years now, four Norwegian children aged four to eight have been held in detention camps north-east of Syria under conditions identified by the United Nations as torture-like. Their mothers are responsible for removing the children from the safety of growing up in Norway. But the Norwegian authorities are responsible for the fact that, despite this, the children have not been taken out of a situation where their fundamental rights are violated every day. The Greens believe that Norway must, on both humanitarian and international grounds, bring their children and their mothers home as soon as possible. Women must take the consequences of their actions, but only after a fair trial, to which all Norwegian citizens are entitled. It is not up to the Progress Party or other politicians in Norway to decide who is a terrorist or not, it must come after a judgment, and the children must have the security and care to which they are entitled. I understand that the majority in Stortinget will pick up Norwegian children, but without the mothers. We know that separating mother and children in the detention camps is very difficult legal. It will also traumatize the children further. This was the last of these, among others: established by a Danish expert group to map the situation of Danish children in the detention camps. After this report came, it resulted in the Danes bringing home all their children – with mothers. This case is about single children and their rights, it's about mothers who are going to get a fair trial, but it's also about something much bigger and basically important. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says: «There is no international legal obligation to actively repatriate women and children from Syria.» It is also claimed that we cannot bring them home without them asking for it. I believe it is important that the Storting clear up and say clearly that this is not right, as is the case with Redd Barna today. The Norwegian children do not live in Norwegian territory today. Nor are they subject to de facto protection from any other country, but from Kurdish self-government authorities. It strengthens Norway's responsibility. So when Norway denies responsibility for the human rights of these children, no other country guarantees their right to health, to safety, education and development. If not enough, it is the case that Kurdish authorities – who themselves are victims of the IS war, trafficking in human beings, violence and terror – have repeatedly asked the home Member States to bring their citizens home and take responsibility for the prosecution, and also to take responsibility for the protection of children. So we are not just failing the children, we are failing the Kurds, who are victims of the actions of Norwegian Syrians. For many years, Norway has been high on the agenda in the fight against trafficking in human beings. We are a party to the Council of Europe Convention on Human Trade and the UN Protocol on Human Trade, where we have also committed ourselves to repatriating Norwegian victims of trafficking in human beings. This also applies even if the victims may be responsible for their initial situation. There are now several resolutions and reports from various UN bodies that state that women and children who were married to members of the IS may have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. In Norway, Borgarting Law of Law recently stated that the Norwegian woman who was brought home in 2020 with her two children was exposed to trafficking after April 2015. Therefore, it cannot be excluded that Norwegians still in detention camps in Syria have also been exposed to trafficking in human beings — that cannot be excluded. We do not know what is the reason today that these mothers have not requested consular assistance from the Norwegian U.D. This can be due to fear of represals, which are not uncommon in human trafficking. However, Norway’s repatriation obligations apply regardless of whether they have so requested. So no matter what this room had to make decisions today in the matter, I ask the government to investigate whether the Nordics who are residing in Syria may have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. This government has told them to strengthen the protection of children in armed conflict. We should start by sweeping for ourselves by bringing home the four Norwegian children who are still living under life-threatening conditions in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e603	I share the concerns of the proposers for children of Norwegian citizens in Syria. These children live under extremely difficult conditions and are put in a very serious situation by their parents. I agree with the proposers that there are a number of considerations that speak of bringing the children home. I share the understanding of the humanitarian and security situation in the camps, and that it is also very serious – that children growing up there are exposed to radicalisation and that further residence in the camps is harmful. However, at present no Norwegian women are in these camps asking for assistance from the Norwegian authorities to return to Norway, and without the consent of them or those with parental responsibility, nor can the EEAS assist the children to travel to Norway. One woman who had recently asked for assistance to travel to Norway with her child no longer asks for assistance. It is publicly known that in this consular case the government, for the sake of the child's life and health, had decided to offer consular assistance to travel to Norway. Health information about the child was reviewed by medical expertise in Norway. It was clear that there was a clear humanitarian basis for offering consular assistance to return to Norway to bring this child and the child’s mother. Consular assistance is offered on an individual basis and at the request of the person concerned. Individual assessments are made on a case-by-case basis. All consular assistance is voluntary, and Norwegian citizens abroad cannot be required to accept any offer to do so. I think the debate does not take this point sufficiently into account. If it would be appropriate to help some of the Norwegian citizens who are in Syria to travel to Norway, we will not comment on this publicly for the sake of the safety of those involved. But I've shared a good part of this information with Stortinget in an appropriate way, all the way. I think it would be unfortunate if the Stortinget decided on how to handle one or more consular items. I am pleased that the majority supports this. I also find it strange that some representatives at Stortinget believe that the decision of Stortinget instructs the prosecution authority about who they should ask to be handed over. So not only do you ask to break in and instruct the government about consular matters, but you also want to instruct the prosecution to ask for concrete extradition. It will be to intervene in what is the distribution of responsibilities on such matters in Norway, and this was made clear in legislation carried out in this room two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e624	I share the Foreign Minister's assessment that it would be very special and unfortunate if the Storting went in and made assessments in individual cases like this – therefore the case is also rejected. But what I still want is to get more insight into the government's handling of the issues we are discussing here today. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that information has been given in an appropriate way, but I believe that the public deserves to know what the government has actually made of decisions – whether it is right to bring all these IS women back to Norway, whether it is government policy, even if it is not clearly communicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e629	I have explained this matter on many occasions from the Spokesman's Chair, and then I have said that these matters have been subject to individual treatment. That's the way I've approximated this single thing. When there was concrete information about this child's life and health, I thought it was right to bring this child home. It was not possible to do without the child's mother. It is in that context that the government has taken a decision to offer consular assistance. Then I have appropriately shared more information about these individual matters with Stortinget, since they are subject to professional secrecy. Because they're consular matters, I've shared it with Stortinget. However, no decision has been taken by the government in addition to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e634	There are aspects of these matters which are of such a nature that they have the public interest. I record that the government is hiding behind the fact that there are personal issues that are not to be communicated about in the public domain, but the view of the Progress Party is that it is quite obvious that with the discussions, debates and the dispute that have been around these matters, the public deserves more information about the issues. One might say that it has been communicated in an appropriate way, that is. to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, etc., but more should be told about what these matters are. We have a government that changed its composition in the light of decisions made by the government at the time, and that has never been verified in retrospect. When these matters have such political implications, should not the government then provide more information to the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e639	There are few consular matters dealt with by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which receive so much attention, and which are commented on to such an extent as this. Commenting on a health report is something we usually don't do, but because this case has a lot of public interest, we have nevertheless chosen to go to that step. I believe we share the same kind of information as the government that Amundsen was part of, shared in the other matter in question that was the basis for the Stortinget to go out. I respect the fact that the Progress Party has a different view on the matter – we need to understand that, there are different political opinions – but then the representative should have made sure that it was more public in a concrete, individual consular case when the Progress Party put in government. It wasn't. I believe that there is much more information shared in this matter than is normal, and that is shared even more information with Stortinget in an appropriate way. But I want to take a strong distance from a practice where, in consular matters, we are going to practice more openness because the matter is controversial. It would be a very unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e644	In relation to the matter referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Advance Party chose to leave the government, precisely because of that matter. It says a little bit about the severity of it. The progress party has subsequently also been very critical of what has come out to the public on that matter. But of course we're dealing with the driving rules. We do not give out information ourselves, which we did not put on in the specific case either. But there would have been an advantage if the Foreign Minister were somewhat more open about these matters, as they got so much political attention. What I primarily want to get an answer to is: is it only this case, as we know from the last few weeks, that is relevant, or are there other matters, that have not been mentioned in the media, that perhaps the Storting should get an insight into?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e651	Also in the previous case, good information was given to Stortinget from the Minister of Foreign Affairs in good time. It also applied to the Advance Party, which got it a few months before this became public. So we practiced the same openness. The party of progress resigned from the government on the basis of the decision, not on the basis of the way in which the decision was taken. At least there has never been any public communication. As I explained in the case, I have had one case for treatment. It is the case of the woman who asked for consular assistance. That's what we offered her in order to take her child home. She said no to that. That's the thing that's on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e658	I think I disagree with the previous representative that the problem is a lack of transparency. I would like to remind you that we have been working on this matter for several years, and it has been quite unpleasant since the beginning that the Storting had to come in, but that was because the government was unable to agree. That the Progress Party ended up going out of government when the Stortinget said his, I think I say more about the Advance Party than about the matter. On a general basis, without going into the individual issues, it is a fact that there may be Northmen, including children, who are now in the detention camps and who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. It could put Norway’s legal obligations in a slightly different light. I would like the Foreign Minister to have given some thought to what it would mean for Norway's obligations if it had been that some of the Nordics in Syrian detention camps have been exposed to human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e665	Just to correct the first claim that was made here in public, it was the Stortingen that decided the previous case: it is wrong. It was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ms. Ine Eriksen Soreide, who also made a decision in the previous case. Then information was shared with Stortinget at the time in a good and open manner in a suitable forum, but it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that did a concrete treatment of the consular matter at the time. This case, the way we handle it, is within international conventions and frameworks. To comment on this matter in the light of hypothetical considerations about conventions that we have not seen apply is in the case of the courts that have to deal with. I cannot interfere with the judgements of the courts in such cases. That should be pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e672	The reason why I address the issue of trafficking in human beings is that there are many resolutions and reports, including: by the Security Council and other UN bodies that there is a high likelihood that part of the women and children who are related to IS warriors have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. This is really a pretty open and clear knowledge of it. And then the question is how does that affect us, because we don't know that. There is something Norway can do to try to find out whether they are at risk of trafficking in human beings. Perhaps it will also affect our duty to repatriate women and children in order to be able to prosecute, but also to know if we have any other obligations towards them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e677	What is a little unclear about this issue is whether the representative asks about this on a fundamental basis through the work we are doing through the anti-ISIL coalition – where we are doing a work related to the risk of radicalisation, that is, the risk of these being exposed to human trafficking, that is on a purely general basis, and that is within my constitutional responsibility – or whether the representative is asking for an assessment by my side of how concrete these women have been exposed to human trafficking. It's not possible for me to comment here. What has been my constitutional responsibility are the consular matters. It is the police and prosecution authority, where appropriate, that should answer in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e682	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e688	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for what I must say is a good assessment or consideration and orientation. I can even thirdly say a good assessment, at least a good conclusion, because I think it is a very wise conclusion that we absolutely do not bring these ladies and children to Norway. So I have to say that the naivety of the left has never really stopped shocking me. They have always been for a naive, liberal, a little silly refugee and asylum policy. They have always had the attitude that small Norway should, as well, save and save the world. Even after seeing the results of an excessively liberal refugee and asylum policy over too many years, with major integration problems, mainly perhaps in the larger cities – and we also see how big a problem it is in Sweden – the left side continues its incredibly naive refugee and asylum policy and has the incredibly naive attitude that it is very easy to integrate everyone who comes to Norway. It is naïve when one believes that terrorists and cynical, brutal people who have lived in the world's worst terrorist regime and supported it and voluntarily left Norway – voluntarily leaving the peaceful, secure and good democracy in which they have grown up and joined one of the worst, most brutal regimes in the world – will come back here and obviously be saved by the left and become peaceful and law-abiding citizens. And that it's better for the safety risk for Norway and safer for Norway to transport terrorists to Norway, ladies who have volunteered to build an Islamic state, I think I'm incredibly naive. It's almost impressive that it's possible to be so naive. Clearly, the comfort is that those who come here should be punished. They might get a few years in prison, if we're lucky, there won't be much more. Then they're out on the street again, and then they've obviously become law-abiding, peaceful and calm citizens and have put their past behind them. That's clearly what the worldview on the left hand side has. I think it's really shocking that it's possible. It's very good, as I started by saying, that the government, for the time being, has settled on the line they've done. We hope that the Workers' Party in government will not be influenced by the limitless naivety on the left-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e699	Several speakers have used the words ‘get home’ from this pulpit – ‘to get home’ these women. We're talking about adults who have left our society knowingly and willfully and committed themselves to one of the most barbaric and brutal terrorist organizations in the world have seen, a terrorist organization behind beheadings, rapes, killings, where children are used as sex slaves and young children are tied out in the sun to die. This is the organization to which these women have committed themselves. The women have also, according to the media, largely burned up their passports. So they have left Norway, left our values, to fight everything we stand for. Then it's wrong to say that this is a debate about bringing these women home. These are women who, regardless of citizenship, are not welcome in Norway. These are women who are to be punished for their brutal acts. It is strange, therefore, that this House has previously said no to the proposals of the Progress Party to contribute to an international criminal court, so that these women can actually be punished for their deeds, and also zones in the areas where they have actually committed these deeds. But it doesn't want the population here. It is better to pick up these women so-called ‘home’. The representative of Bastholm then claims that the Norwegian authorities are responsible for the presence of these children. No, these are the mothers who are responsible for it. The children are basically completely innocent. But then it was claimed from this pulpit that it is brutal to separate mother and child. No, that's something that unfortunately has to happen sometimes. It happens in Norway every day. Women are sentenced to prison, including mothers. Child protection sometimes has to intervene when someone is obviously not good caregivers. And if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that a mother who takes her children down to Syria, or Iraq, and commits herself to a terrorist organization, obviously is not a good caregiver. If these mothers want the best for their children, they should accept that Norwegian authorities can bring these children to Norway, but they themselves must be responsible for their brutal and barbaric actions, which they have contributed to by enlisting to IS.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e710	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e726	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e735	I would first like to thank the Committee on the Work on the proposal for a representative to amend the penal code so that terrorists lose their right to vote. There is a broad majority in the Committee to reject the proposal. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus within the Committee, on which time has also been spent from most of the parties in the vote, on the need to impose legal certainty on individuals, the fundamental democratic rights of individuals and the rule of law. It is important to stress that these principles must stand on both good days and difficult days, and that there must be a very high threshold to deprive Norwegian citizens of the right to participate in our democracy through elections. That being said, acts of terrorism are very serious crimes and must be severely punished. Because of the very serious nature of this type of crime, both for society and for individuals, the level of penalties for terrorist acts is very high. For serious acts of terrorism, the penal framework is prison for up to 30 years. The UN has defined voting rights as a human right, and there are therefore good fundamental reasons why excluding some of these rights is not a widespread punishment in Norway. There are many and complex reasons why acts of terrorism are perpetrated. The debate on what we can do as a society to prevent radicalisation, extremism and acts of terrorism is perhaps as important in that context as the question of voting rights. We know a little bit about those that are being radicalized, and about those who are at risk of being radicalized. Common features such as low education, unemployment, drug problems and mental health give us an important indication of what needs to be addressed in relation to these issues. Young people who are vulnerable, who feel outsiders, and who are looking for a place to belong, are at risk. That increased polarization, hate rhetoric and a tougher debate climate in public space also contribute in this context is a cross of thought that everyone can take with them, and where each of us might be able to contribute. The proposers wish to provide a basis for the temporary waiving of voting rights for those convicted of violation of Chapter 18 of the Criminal Code, which deals with acts of terrorism and terrorist acts. Until 1954, Paragraph 52 of the Basic Law suspended the temporary loss of the right to vote, while Paragraph 53 permitted the loss of the right to vote for all time. However, it follows from changes in criminal law and the understanding of the Constitution that § 53 today also authorises the temporary waiving of the right to vote. The Criminal Code does not currently contain any separate provisions on the loss of voting rights. When the criminal law provision on the loss of voting rights was lifted, the main reason was that such a reaction in criminal proceedings would rarely be needed. A unanimous Judicial Committee supported this justification as late as 2005. The majority then believed that there were better ways to combat such crime than to allow the loss of the right to vote for such offences. 17 years are relatively short in terms of criminal law, and the well-founded assessment remains largely today. Changes in criminal law have traditionally been the subject of thorough investigation, discussion and debate before adoption. The proposal we have before us today is reflected in the range of individual proposals on various changes to criminal law and the law of criminal proceedings that have recently been promoted. A thorough processor is an important legal source in Norwegian law, and detailed information on the purpose of the law or how to apply the law creates predictability in the application of the law and is important for legal certainty. It should of course be free from the Storting to adopt changes in laws on the basis of such proposals, but there may still be good reasons to exercise some caution in adopting such proposals in the field of criminal law without thorough preparatory work, as this proposal suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e752	It's getting small, let's say, funny when I listen to the case rapporteur from the Central Party's considerations about the proposal for legislative changes, which must have very extensive investigation and assessment. I encourage the representative to look back at the previous ageing period and all the proposals that came from the Central Party when they were in opposition. That is the small thing the Progress Party is proposing here today. Because it's not like we want to propose a change in the wording of the law, it's a request to the government to come forward with a proposal to amend the penal code. In this way, it normally goes into all kinds of treatment we have of document 8 proposals dealing with changes in the law. So I think you should be a little reluctant to draw this investigation card at any time where we discuss matters in Stortinget. One of the most important tasks of this room is to adopt legislative changes, and then it must not be that we should somehow be depreciated that possibility. Yes, investigations are important, but it is desirable to follow up the adoption of a request proposal. So let's keep our tongue straight in our mouth. Secondly, it is difficult to understand the contradictions raised against this proposal. Reference is made to legal certainty, reference is made to the principles of the rule of law, etc. I think we are going very far into describing what are completely right and legal proposals, which are really about tightening up the responses to the people who commit some of the worst kind of crime that can be done in a society, namely terrorist activity, terrorist attacks, killing and harming innocent people for political reasons. It can have enormous consequences for a society. It is not without reason that the State – or this other room – has decided that it is the most, the most severe, penal framework to be used in this type of case. It's decided by the Storting: 30 years in prison. It is also natural that when dealing with these issues, it should be considered to remove the right to vote, at least for a limited period of time, and perhaps forever in cases where there are completely extreme acts taking place. It is simply because it is the most undemocratic thing to do: to commit terrorism against society and to harm innocent people because you have some political opinions that do not reach through the democratic channels. This is one of the greatest enemies against society, the greatest inner enemy a society can have, and if in those cases you can't even consider abstaining from any vote, because you have shown in the most obvious way that you have no respect for other opinions, that you don't have respect for other views, and you use violence and terrorist attacks to promote your view – if not even they can be deprived of the right to vote, I have to say that it seems very strange, and at least when I listen to the argument. It is about the rights of persons who have committed an act that is boundless in many situations. The Progress Party is at least clear: we want to deprive terrorists of voting rights and to make proposals about it today. Then I will continue to listen to the debate, but there is no uncertainty in this: it is, of course, within the area of legal certainty to be disqualified from voting, and it is difficult to understand the contradictions that are being raised. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e767	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e772	The vote is absolutely essential in our democracy, and when countries have a low threshold to choose to deprive their citizens of the right to participate in democracy, that is something I would strongly criticise. Although people commit criminal acts, the goal must be to enable these people to participate in society. It is not difficult to support the criticism and condemnation of people who commit serious crime or acts of terrorism. It's the easiest thing in the world to do. But it is precisely when we are in difficult situations that it is important that we stand up for the fundamental rights of our democracy. When the criminal law provision on the loss of voting rights was lifted, the main reason was that there was a rare need for such a reaction in criminal proceedings, and there was a unanimous judicial committee in the inner. O. No 72 for 2004–2005 did not intend to continue the previous provision. Today, the Progress Party proposes that we go back two steps and establish a basis for depriving people of the right to vote. It's a very bad idea. We, as representatives of democracy in Norway sitting in this Chamber, must also be very careful to sit here and order that people in our society will not be able to participate in the democracy that makes Norway the good country to live and live in. That is exactly why today the SV is going to vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e789	The universal right to vote is one of the pillars of our liberal democracy. Norway is a legal state, we're not a police state. We have to stick to our principles, even when things are difficult. Terrorism is an attempt to weaken democracy. By allowing people to use their voting rights, democracy is strengthened. I want to start by pointing out the obvious: it's not exactly participation in democratic processes you're worried about when it comes to terrorism. On the contrary, democratic legal participation is what we want them to spend their time on. In the prevention of acts of terrorism, the focus must be on de-addictification and on preventing exclusion, not on excluding any voting rights. As I see it, realising this proposal will not strengthen our democracy, but rather weaken it. In 1953, the right to condemn the loss of voting rights as an additional penalty was removed from the penal code. In the preparation of a new penal code, the Criminal Felony Commission showed that this provision had not been used since the post-war judicial settlement. They also pointed out that under normal circumstances, there would hardly be a need to disapprove of any voting rights as punishment. I also feel compelled to point out that it is very unlikely that the proposed penal system for the loss of voting rights will have a preventative effect in addition to the rules of Chapter 18 of the Penal Code already provide. The penalty for serious acts of terrorism is imprisonment for up to 30 years. A significant deterrent effect must be assumed in itself. There are many major and real problems related to terrorism, but the right to vote for a convicted terrorist is not one of them. The left will therefore not support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e804	Initially, I would like to stress that acts of terrorism are very serious crimes. Terrorism is an attack on the rule of law and democracy, and it also represents a significant risk of life and serious harm. Therefore, it is important that the level of penalties in these cases is high. At the same time, I do not think it is appropriate to introduce a criminal clause that authorises the loss of the right to vote in the event of a conviction for acts of terrorism, and there are several reasons for this. The main reason is that there is no need for such a rule of law. In the past, the criminal law contained a legal provision on the waiving of voting rights for national fraud, electoral fraud and certain other crimes, but the rule was repealed in 2006. The reason was that there will rarely be a need to judge such a reaction in criminal proceedings. It was also argued that a provision on the loss of voting rights is unlikely to have any preventative effect alongside the criminal threat in any case. Last but not least, losing the right to vote will only be relevant to a few people, and it is unlikely to affect the outcome of a choice. I believe these are arguments that are still valid today. The main argument of the proposers is that persons convicted of acts of terrorism have shown a disdain for democracy which should lead to the loss of their right to vote for a period of time, but contempt for democracy is not specific to acts of terrorism. It also characterises a number of other serious offences. The previous provision on the loss of voting rights also gave rise to the loss of voting rights in the event of a conviction for acts that could be said to constitute a threat to democracy, but that did not prevent the Storting from repealing that provision in 2006. I believe that the justification from that time still stands by today, and I am pleased that the draft representative is prepared not to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e815	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e820	As the rapporteur has begun, we do not test our legal system on sunny days. I myself have worked on education in prison, including social education, where a very important area is democracy and the rule of law. I've spent a lot of time discussing why our rule of law applies to everyone. The reasons are many, and they also coincide with why we have so many universal arrangements in our society. Here there are enough differences between the right and the left in how we view it, which I of course explained well in my teaching. I'm proud of our state of law, and I'm proud that we in Norway see that crime, including hate crime, does not happen in a vacuum. Rather, our community bears responsibility for human actions, as they also bear a responsibility for themselves. Criminal convictions in Norway also have rights, in fact, the same rights that we have. What they're convicted of is detention. We're not going to add double penalties knowingly and willfully. Abstaining people's voting rights is just such a double penalty. I think that punishing in this way will contribute to more frustration, more hate and more crime. To stick to our principles, our fundamental values and our democracy even when it's difficult – it's precisely when we're being tested in our principles. Therefore, the Workers' Party will always stand by these fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e832	I was going to let the debate go and finish the debate, but I have to say something, and that's a little bit to the Council of State, but also to the last post, from the representative of Aasen-Svensrud. I feel a need to point out that one goes very far – from the left side, especially, or those who do not support the proposals of the Progress Party – in swunging in good words, as if one stands for something very important and very principled. It is not the case that the rule of law stands and falls on whether terrorists are allowed to participate in Norwegian elections. It's almost absurd to claim something like that. There are many countries, good legal states, which have a similar type of legislation. Yeah, that's actually pretty common. But it's incredibly small if it's the way the Workers' Party is now – and also the Center Party – drawing the line of the rule of law's existence from whether people who have committed killings, destruction, destructive actions, attacking society and killing innocents are allowed to vote in Norwegian elections, that the state stands and falls on whether these people get a vote in Norwegian elections. It's hard to understand that kind of argument. In this case, it also means that until 2006, as a result of new criminal law, Norway was not a legal state. It almost sounds like this argument. One wraps himself up with great concepts, great ideals, and puts it forward as the basic reason why they do not support the proposals of the Progress Party. I think everyone – including those who stand here and claim this – understands that this is obviously not right. There are obviously quite other reasons why you do not choose to support the proposals of the Progress Party. Probably because it comes from the opposition. Probably it's from the Progress Party. But it would not be unreasonable in the extreme cases when people who have committed so cruel acts that 30 years of imprisonment were used, even in this context, to denouncing them – for a limited time or for life – the right to participate in Norwegian elections. In that case, it would be within the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e857	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e866	I want to start by thanking the Committee for its work. We are discussing a proposal for a representative on the amendment of the Criminal Procedures Act and the detention of terrorists, promoted by representatives Per-Willy Amundsen and Tor André Johnsen. This is a proposal dealing with Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act, which provides a basis for arrest and detention. The proposers propose that the provision of Chapter 18 of the Criminal Code on Terrorism offences with a penalty framework of less than 10 years in prison be included in Section 172b of the Criminal Procedures Act. ‘it is clearly appropriate to support the public’s sense of justice and to create insecurity in society that persons suspected of terrorist offences are being released pending the prosecution’. The Council's letter of reply to the Committee underlines: ‘Norway has already had to endure criticisms from, among other things, international monitoring bodies for our precautionary practices. Therefore, there is reason to exercise caution in extending the scope of the regime of custody further.» The Committee points out that the Council of State therefore considers that there is no good solution to extend the system of arrest warrants to all terrorist offences, as advocated by the proposers. For us in SV, it is important to stress that there is a need to be very careful about the use of law enforcement offences, which are not prisons on grounds of investigation, but for reasons of public law and security. We have a strong presumption of innocence in Norway that we should be careful to dilute. It can have very dramatic consequences. We should bear in mind that depriving people of liberty is intrusive, and among the state's most powerful means of power. Therefore, SV will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e887	As the rapporteur has pointed out, there are good reasons why the Progress Party has promoted this proposal. It's about the general sense of justice, people's perception of justice and wrong, but it's primarily about public security. Persons who are able to commit acts of terrorism and engage in such activities are persons who are potentially dangerous to society. There are people we have to protect ourselves from. Obviously, when you have examples of individual cases where people who have cases to go to court are on the loose, people react. They react with good reason. One can discuss, in a broad sense and in a broad sense, the application of law enforcement and detention in general, but the important thing here is to take care of the interests of Norwegian society. It's about the security of most people, and it's about the general sense of justice. I note that in this case, as in the previous, the Progress Party is quite alone. There might be reason, for the rest of the parties in this hall, to reflect on the choice of dealing in this way with the proposals of the Progress Party. Both proposals are very well justified. I record that part of the parties that previously – at least in the previous magnification period – might have chosen to support these proposals, do not choose to do so now, because they are in government. We have a minority government – I am very well aware of that – and governments are often so that they have some desire for what the Storting should adopt and what they should not adopt. It is in the nature of the matter, but the Storting decides what the Storting wants to adopt. I would like to remind the other party groups that hopefully you can go in and assess matters on their merits and not on what kind of answers they get from each department. The size should assess its own cases on a free basis. Leave it a request. I hope that we can have real debates, discuss real issues, discuss real content, and that the fact that the Department and the Council of State are turning the thumb down does not necessarily mean that the Storting cannot get the majority for the proposals. I just want to remind you of that. With that, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e898	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e903	In general, detention has to be used with great caution, and there are clear conditions for being able to imprison someone before a judgment is given. This undermines some of our most fundamental rights, namely human rights – the right not to be imprisoned without a judgment. Ordinary custody imprisonment under Section 171 of the Criminal Procedures Act involves detention in prison for the purpose of the investigation, in order to ensure that the intention does not elude, affect evidence or witnesses or re-introduce a criminal offence, i.e. ‘special grounds for imprisonment’. Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act, which is the subject of the proposal of the Progress Party, differs from the ordinary prison rule by the fact that it is not prison on grounds of investigation but for reasons of public law and security. Therefore, the conditions for making use of law enforcement sanctions are also significantly more stringent. The Supreme Court has also found that, in the light of the EMC, the European Convention on Human Rights, the provision must be applied with great care. I would also like to remind the chairman of the committee that this is not about people who have a judicial conviction, or who are convicted of terrorist activity, or that it is custody with a background in a repeatable danger. That is not what we are discussing now, with reference to the security of society, as the chairman of the committee pointed out. Norway uses care more frequently and for longer periods compared to several other countries, and we have also been criticized by international monitoring bodies. What we don't need are further limits to the use of custody. An additional authorisation for the use of law enforcement can lead to the dilution of the presumption of innocence. Judicial arrests have the character of provocative settlements, where people are deprived of freedom without a special grounds for imprisonment. We're going to be careful with that. I would also like to stress the importance that when a legislative change is made, it should be in order to solve a problem. Changes in criminal law should be made following thorough investigations and consultations, in order to ensure coherence of legislation and to assess adequately the need for the change. Against this background, the Left will not support the proposal to extend access to law enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e918	I am pleased that a majority of the Judicial Committee shares my view on the matter. There is no need or good reason to extend the law enforcement system to cover all terrorist offences. Prison of Varet is an intrusive coercive measure whereby the defendants are imprisoned before the court has passed a conviction. At the same time, there are some cases that are so serious that it will not be right that the targets are open to judgment. The rules of criminal proceedings must be aligned in such a way that there is a reasonable balance between public confidence in the system and the need for security, on the one hand, and individual legal certainty, on the other. Terrorism is a very serious crime. At the same time, I am concerned that there is a great deal of tension between different types of crime. With regard to the most serious acts of terrorism, I fully agree that the suspicion of such offences should provide a basis for law enforcement arrests. This results from the current law today. The question is whether the legal state of the day should be changed for the less serious terrorist provisions. In my opinion, there are several important reasons why this is not a good solution. Firstly, it is already possible today to decide on the arrest and custody of such cases when the general conditions for detention are met. Secondly, the law enforcement system has objectionable aspects. The Court has been quite clear that this form of custody detention must be used with great caution in the light of human rights. I would like to point out the presumption of innocence, which many people have had, and the principle that no one should be punished without judgment. By making a decision on the law enforcement arrests in the most serious terrorist cases and otherwise in accordance with the normal law in other terrorist cases, I believe that we have a good and reliable system in common today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e929	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Case No. 6 and 7 will be processed below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e962	Cases 6 and 7 are interpellations, and the President refers to decisions at the beginning of today that the interviews will be dealt with together, and that speaking time will be allocated as follows: First, the two interpellanates get up to 10 minutes each. Then the two government councils get up to 10 minutes each. Then it opens for up to 15 posts of 5 minutes from other representatives. Finally, the inter-pellants and government councils are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. The President refers to the inter-pelling texts on agenda No. Seventy-three. The text of both interviews sounds the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e982	This case I have worked with for quite a long time, then as a health politician. There was a cooperation with law enforcement officers before the elections, but there was a lot that boiled down in both the justice and health fields in the situation we had, with pandemic management. That is why I am very happy today that I have the opportunity to raise this matter, together with my colleague Sandra Bruflot, because this is something that needs to be resolved in the interface between the justice and health fields. Just before Easter, the Right arranged a seminar entitled "To Fall Between Two Chairs". The background was the serious events in Haugesund and Lademoen in 2019, and at Kongsberg and Bislett in 2021. These have put a spotlight on people in mental health protection who, for various reasons, have fallen between two chairs in the justice and health systems. There is a difficult balance between the individual’s right to freedom and society’s demands for security. In December 2021, the State Research Commission on Health and Welfare, Ukom, presented the report ‘What can we learn after a killing committed in a psychotic way? Health and social protection for patients with psychosis and increased risk of violence». The report makes several suggestions for improvements, including: on the possibilities for closer and better interaction between the police and mental health protection. In the seminar, we in the Right Judicial and Health Group wanted to highlight some of the challenges of today's legislation and system, and look at possible solutions to strengthen social protection and prevent these people from falling between two chairs. There were several interesting suggestions and ideas, and not least we got a gripping report from one of the relatives after the axe killing in Haugesund, Lars Johan Hereid. He should be very grateful for his efforts to put in place better regulation and procedures in this field. Varetteckssurrogate under the Criminal Procedures Act § 188 is an alternative to custody in prison. Originally, the place in a suitable institution or in a municipal housing unit was intended for persons with mental retardation, possibly very young or very old offenders. The purpose of the legislator for custody outside prison was to reconcile humane care with regard to the safety of the environment. In 2016, the provision was subject to a legislative amendment of significant importance for healthcare. Before the amendment provided for the placement of the intended person in a psychiatric institution that the institution consented. After 2016, the courts may, under certain conditions, require institutions to receive them for the period determined by the courts. The UN report shows that patients in the care area may need mandatory mental health protection in order to ensure the necessary health care and follow-up, and Ukom points out that mental health protection seems to be unclear today whether it is permitted to establish a forced paragraph for patients in care. Ukom has the following recommendation for the Health Directorate: ‘The Directorate for Health should express its opinion on the possibility of establishing mandatory mental health protection for patients admitted to custody with the Criminal Procedures Act § 188 as their sole residence’. Therefore, there is reason to ask whether the Health Directorate has assessed whether it is possible to establish mandatory mental health protection for patients admitted to custody with the Criminal Procedures Act § 188 as the only means of hospitalisation. Here, the Health Directorate should clarify the legal status. It is also apparent from the Ukom report that accommodation requests are rarely used by the police and the prosecution authority. According to a survey conducted by Ukom among on-call police lawyers, police attorneys largely agree that they are not aware of the provision that opens the way for appeal by the police. The majority of the watch-keeping doctors say that they know the provision, but only one of the doctors has experienced receiving such an admission request. So there is only one doctor who remembers that he has received a request from the Public Prosecutor's Office for admission. In view of this, we need to ensure that the prosecution lawyers are better aware of the legal means available to them to request the insertion of patients with psychosis and increased risk of violence. This is something the Minister of Justice should follow up with the Attorney General. Today, the person treating people who have committed serious psychosis offences does not necessarily receive information about the conditions under which they have been sent to mandatory mental health protection. It's something they can access, but they can't. It is unfortunate and should have been a matter of course as part of the assessment in his/her treatment and the assessment of the risk of violence to such a person. This also says something about the importance of social protection. Similarly, the prosecution authority is not necessarily informed when a person is sentenced to mandatory mental health protection between different levels of safety within the same institution, transferred to another institution, granted leave or released. Here I think we need to see if the law is good enough. It appears obvious that the prosecution authority is informed when they are released or are subject to change in the place of treatment. Strictly speaking, the prosecution authority should be consulted in such cases, and this is something I believe needs to be clarified in the law. I believe this is the core of the whole matter that we are dealing with now. If a person is sentenced to transfer to compulsory mental health protection under Section 62 of the Criminal Code, he/she is not actually convicted, because he/she cannot be sentenced when he/she is unpredictable. In the light of this, the person is released or moved to another institution, when the treating physician considers it appropriate. Of course, a doctor should have his patient's best in mind, but we have to ask ourselves whether there is no need for repetitious hazards, the need for follow-up in everyday life, and not least the right of citizens to protection, must weigh more than it does today. When a person is acquitted because he is declared unlikely in a violent case, how is this communicated to the health care, which is responsible for the treatment? Another and greater question is whether we in society have arrangements that can take care of the individuals we are discussing here: people who are a danger to themselves and society, people who are too sick to prison, too weak to take care of themselves, but still so dangerous that they pose a threat to society around them. Perhaps the time is ripe to discuss a new special reaction and a new type of institution: forced residence and it in a security home. Here I'm going to pay tribute to Randi Rosenqvist, who has been working for decades with heavy criminals. She's calling for this kind of arrangement. Today, the undersigned and the representative Bruflot are raising this issue, with regard to justice and health, respectively. One interesting point in this context is that the health sector has carried out two evaluations and made a report. At the same time, neither the police nor the state attorney has made any evaluations, I am familiar with them. In fact, it is not known how the justice sector deals with the Ukom report other than what Ukom himself has said. As a former health politician, I have already noticed on several occasions that the ability to search for self seems somewhat more pronounced in the field of health than in the field of justice. The best way to avoid mistakes is to learn from the mistakes of others or in the worst cases from your own mistakes. That is why reviews and evaluations are very useful. Ukom has provided a good report with clear recommendations, but it is limited in scope. There is still a lack of some information about what is going on between printing and possible criminal activity. Why do we let it happen over and over and over again that people who have been discharged from mental health protection get to do criminal acts? How can we better protect ourselves from it, even though we know that it will fail? At the same time, Ukom naturally has the most eye for the health field. The Unkom report is a report prepared by the health services and health services. It is not designed for the interaction between health and justice. In itself, there is a need for further political follow-up to this very debate to be well spent on time. And then there is this strenuous balance between the state's obligation to protect its citizens and the individual's right to treatment in mental health protection. But the most important thing here is what we've learned after a killing committed in a psychotic way. The report from Ukom examines the conditions surrounding the axe killing in Haugesund in 2019 and concludes, inter alia, that: the lack of cooperation between justice and health. The report describes the uncertainty about which health care can be provided and whether it is permitted to establish coercive homes for patients in care surrogates and that the police exploit too little of the possibility of making an application for detention. There is also a need for clearer rules and guidelines on the sharing of knowledge between the police/prosecution authority and healthcare. This must be followed up. I wonder how the Minister of Justice has intended to ensure better interaction between justice and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1015	The main conclusion of the Ukom report is that psychotic patients at increased risk of violence can receive better health care. Often, the debate is about more or less coercive use in psychiatry in general, but in these cases it is about people who have seen both health and police as dangerous, and where health care and social protection are not considerations to be balanced against each other, but where good patient treatment at the same time strengthens social protection and where it is good social protection to provide some treatment they need. Only now, when we go through Ukom's recommendations, I find it a little difficult to know what is under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Health and what is under the Minister of Justice. However, the report makes several proposals for improvements in both fields, most in view of the interaction and information flow between the police and mental health protection. Perhaps it is quite convincing that it is difficult to know exactly where the responsibility lies at what time, when it appears that there is also the problem for the justice and health sector in dealing with people who are at increased risk of violence against others. Ukom writes that it is difficult to find exact numbers, but the extent of incidents in which people with psychosis commit serious acts of violence, according to the police, is increasing. At the same time, they stress that: ‘the general perception that mental illness is the main risk factor for violence does not give a true and fair view of reality’. But it's a killing in a public place that's the starting point for Ukom's report. The perpetrator had had a psychosis condition for a long time, and the court writes in the death sentence that there is a timely question of something that could have been managed differently between the date of discharge from mental health protection and the date of the killing. As far as the court understood, an earlier criminal case in which the perpetrator was accused of violence was placed after the position of the evidence, and it is unclear what knowledge the hospital and the other relevant institutions had about the content of the legal psychiatric statement. The report recommends several improvements, mainly on closer and better interaction between the police and mental health protection. They have some recommendations for healthcare in prisons, some recommendations for the Health Directorate and some recommendations for mental health protection. The background to the recommendations is that there are several things, according to their reports, that can lead to patients with psychotic disorders and violence risk being printed out without further follow-up from mental health protection. Firstly, it is unclear which rules apply to patients in hospital care surrogates rather than in ordinary care prisons. It is problematic both for the patient’s legal certainty and for the hospital’s ability to provide good medical treatment. There is too much uncertainty about the conversion ban that says that a patient cannot be moved from voluntary to compulsory mental health protection while the voluntary protection is in place, because these patients are not under voluntary mental health protection. Here are three recommendations, first of all: ‘The Health Directorate should express its opinion on the possibility of establishing mandatory mental health protection for patients admitted to custody with the Criminal Procedures Act § 188 as their sole residence.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Health Directorate should clarify to mental health protection the rules applicable to health care for patients in the care surrogate.’ The third recommendation of the Health Directorate is that when the police become aware of persons they believe need to be admitted and who do not seek help themselves, they may and should request the person to be compulsorily admitted to hospital. A request for introduction gives the police the right to obtain information, and they are given the right to make statements and complaints relating to the application and not least the discharge of the patient. When the police suspect or have specific information that a person is psychotic or dangerous, they will often take the person to a doctor to assess whether he is going to be hospitalised. Today, there is too little interaction between the doctor to assess the patient and the police who take the initiative in hospital, but the police usually have valuable information about the patient’s condition, life situation and violence problems. If your doctor does not ask for this information and writes it down himself, healthcare misses important information. If the police promote a request for accommodation, it will facilitate a better flow of information between the police and the hospital. This may prevent patients with psychosis and increased risk of violence from committing serious crime. When the police come in contact with people they believe have psychosis and are at risk to others, they should consider, to a greater extent than at present, requesting medical examination, forced observation or mandatory mental health protection. An application may help to provide the patient with the necessary health care. The recommendation is that these bodies cooperate in order to clarify the practical functioning of the arrangements for posting requests. Health services in prisons should follow common admission procedures when transferring prisoners with psychosis from prison to hospital for mental health protection, and doctors should consider whether to seek voluntary mental health protection or whether there are conditions for forced admission. It should take place in addition to any decisions on prison surrogate or custody surrogate. The clear recommendation for mental health protection is that they have to use legal psychiatric statements when carrying out a risk-of-violence assessment. Declarations by experts are not written for use in mental health protection, but nevertheless often contain valuable information, including: on psychosis and on the history of violence. Ukom believes that mental health care professionals should engage in and make use of legal psychiatric statements with their information on diagnostic evaluations, history of violence and other criminal history. The reason for a risk-of-violence assessment is, of course, the need to design measures to prevent violence. The LIS doctor at the security post where Frank – who was based on Ukom – said: ‘If we had done it [violence risk assessment] at the time, we would be able to point out several factors by pointing in the direction of his life situation and health situation that point to his having a high risk of violence and can become very dangerous.’ Ukom has examined what we can learn after a killing committed in a psychotic state. In these cases, we look at how to provide good patient care and at the same time strengthen social protection. Before Easter we had a seminar at Stortinget on just this report. We had a visit by both the head of Ukom, a survivor of a murder committed in psychosis and representatives of both mental health and prosecution authorities. These are major and difficult questions, there are issues that are not exactly new, and the report is the background to the inter-pellation and to the question of how the Minister of Health and Health will follow up the recommendations of Ukom to ensure that the interaction between justice and health is improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1065	First of all, I'd like to pay tribute to both the interpellant to address a topical and very important topic, which concerns both the health and justice field, and I think it is positive that we have a common debate on it. The report highlights the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation in the follow-up of serious mental illness with a risk of violence. Tragedy committed by people with mental illness is very rare, but a small proportion of people with severe mental health problems — and often at the same time drug problems — are unfortunately at increased risk to society. This applies to persons who carry out judgments on the specific reactions, forcing mental health protection and forced care, as well as to other persons, such as those with a history of intoxication or violence, who are concerned that the police may commit serious criminal offences that threaten the health and freedom of others. We have a great joint responsibility for these across the sectors. The tragic events we witnessed in Kongsberg and Bislett in the fall of 2021, and the history of the tragic incident in Haugesund, as the Ukom report describes, are all strong reminders of the importance of closer cooperation and interaction between the police and the health services. This formed the very backbone of my entry as Minister of Justice and Security and of the Minister of Health and Care as Minister of Health and Care, because on the day the government joined on 14 October 2021, Norway was unfortunately witness to a very serious incident, just on Kongsberg. It meant that this has been with us from day one, and improving the cooperation between health and justice was also one of the very first things we caught up with at the beginning of our reign. And I'm glad that now, in the last few months since that, I've had a very good cooperation with health, where we look at a wide range of measures to close the gap that unfortunately has been there for too many years. It's not easy, and we're probably never going to completely eliminate the risk, but we can do a lot to better care for the people who are sick, who may be at risk of very serious acts of violence, both to protect themselves and to protect society and make society safer. The Unkom report is, as I've been told, an indication that society has failed well enough to prevent criminal acts from the small number of serious mental ill people we're talking about here. According to police threat assessments, symptoms of, suspected or diagnosed mental illness in perpetrators are associated with a significant proportion of reported killings and attempted killings since 2016, between 30 and 45 pst. At the same time, we see an increase in the police assistance mission to the psychiatry. I've had the opportunity to travel around the country as Minister of Justice and Emergency, and almost wherever it is, the police say that they spend a lot of resources on aid missions to the psychiatry, and it's demanding both for them and for the health sector. The prevention of criminal offences is not primarily a responsibility for the justice sector, but it is a cross-sectoral and holistic social responsibility. For a small group of people, good initial treatment and good, safe treatment are a key element of prevention. As Minister of Justice, I am particularly concerned about social protection, both in the implementation of specific criminal law reactions and in the follow-up of other patients presenting a safety risk. Here I have noticed that the report describes a need for closer interaction between the police and the health services, among other things. when carrying out risk assessments. These are also issues raised by the State Health Authority in the light of its supervisory activities. On 30 March 2021, the Health Inspectorate held a meeting with the departments concerned, where the subject was the safe follow-up of convictions implementing mandatory mental health protection. Although the Ukom report also points to some of the uncertainties in the legislation, the main message is that it fails in the interaction and the exchange of information between the health services and the police, and it is just one of the things that the Minister of Health and I have worked together to look at since the fall last year, and that we want to make improvements. It is important that we follow where there is a failure in the interface between police prevention and risk assessment and the prevention work in good and proper treatment of mental disorders. When it comes to identifying where it fails, we have also obtained input from the judicial authorities, and they point mainly to – like the Ukom report – the need to improve cross-sectoral interaction. Measures that can support this type of interaction are important, and we also need to be open to assessing legislation if it is needed. I have noticed that the Ukom report also points to ambiguities in the use of care surrogate, and this affects the legislation both in the justice sector and in the healthcare sector. Recordings from the justice sector, various evaluation reports, such as the Ukom report, are some of the very useful input into further work to improve cooperation between the health and justice systems. Then I would also like to comment on a concrete moment that the interpellant had in mind, and which is about the knowledge of the legal instruments of the prosecutors, about requesting the insertion of patients with psychosis and increased risk of violence who commit serious crime. It is an important part of police prevention that prosecutors know about this, and it is an instrument that can be used by the police around the country. When it was pointed out in the Ukom report in December 2021 that several police resources did not know about this provision, the ministry immediately found that there was reason to follow it up. That is why the Police Directorate was asked to provide rapid information to the police districts on this report, and POD has informed that police districts have received both the report and proposals for a template for the use of this type of accommodation request. The Directorate has also briefed on the findings of the report and recommendations in meeting the police districts’ professional and training officers in the area of prevention and prosecution. A survey has also been carried out of police districts’ procedures for the use of accommodation requests as part of their efforts to improve police knowledge in this particular area. I assume that the legal instruments that the prosecution authority is dealing with these difficult matters are now well-informed and well-known among the prosecutors, and that the Directorate also ensures that this knowledge is not only present but also maintained and marketed in good practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1097	Thanks to the inter-pellants, who raise demanding issues – issues the government has had to address from day one in the government offices through the serious incidents referred to by the Minister of Justice and Security, and also through Ukom’s report of December 2021 on the events in Haugesund in 2019. The Commission's report gives us useful insights into what we can do to reduce the risk of serious violence. Nearly half of us will be able to experience mental health challenges in life. Some get seriously ill, but there are still very few who pose a threat to other people. Health services do a lot to prevent and follow-up people with mental and drug dependence who are at increased risk of violence, but we need to be even better at catching up and following up sick people who may be at risk to themselves and others. It points to the need for better interaction between police and mental health protection in order to safeguard social protection. It seems obvious. There is already a tool for this type of interaction, but it is too small. The government has announced a stepping-up plan for mental health, and its work is well under way. We will provide good and easily accessible help in municipalities, and we will increase the treatment capacity and prevent the reduction of bed places in mental health protection. We will also look at the offer to people with severe mental health problems, drug problems and violence problems and work to promote good mental health and not least prevent mental distress and suffering. The Health Directorate follows up the recommendations of the report from Ukom. Among other things, they will provide the necessary clarifications in circulars and guides and will assess whether the findings of Ukom provide a basis for proposing legislative changes. In March, health firms and municipalities were provided with information and guidance material from the directorate for use in the assessment of consent competence and the risk of violence. Accidents highlight the possibility for the police to seek compulsory mental health protection. The Health Directorate and the Police Directorate support these recommendations and will incorporate them in the context of the revision of the circular on the responsibilities of the health services and the police for mental illness. This could facilitate the exchange of information, inter alia: have an impact on the assessment of the risk of violence. The counselling centre on health and care services for prisoners in prison is also being revised. The Health Directorate will follow up Ukom’s recommendations that the healthcare in prison should follow common hospitalisation procedures when prisoners with psychosis are transferred from prison to mental health protection, so-called care surrogati, which are mentioned by several speakers here. The Directorate will also follow up the recommendation to clarify the rules applicable to healthcare for patients in the event of such a transfer. I will continue the good dialogue I have with the Minister of Justice and Defence. These are solutions that need to be found between our responsibilities, and we need to ensure that we both safeguard social security and provide good and early help. In a short time, the Ministry of Health and Welfare will appoint an expert committee to evaluate the changes in the law on non-consenting competences as conditions for forced observation, forced mental health protection and investigation and treatment without its own consent. We have to do what we can to avoid such tragic events that the killing in Haugesund is an example of. Ukom's report is a valuable contribution. However, the most important thing we do to prevent these kinds of tragedies is to ensure that people with serious mental health challenges are caught up and get help as early as possible. The two community health and police missions are different, but the societal challenge is common. I appreciate that this is being lifted in Stortinget, and that we can have a good debate on what solutions we need to look at in order to better prevent and care for individuals even when it comes to these kinds of extreme events that give fatal results.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1122	It is hardly a kiosk, which several of the speeches have been about, that there is an improvement in the potential for interaction between the justice and health sectors. It has been obvious for a lot of us for a very long time, but nothing is better than being able to achieve a better interaction in the future. It is very important, for it is precisely in that cross-section, between those who commit criminal acts and are mentally ill, that we have some fundamental challenges that have made us less able to deal with this matter and these kinds of issues. However, it is far from enough to achieve a somewhat better interaction between the two sectors, because we do not have the legal regulations to do so. We lack the systems that need to be there to be able to handle potentially dangerous, mentally ill people. It's a problem that in many ways has created with knowledge and will, all the time you say, on a naïve ideological basis, uncritically built up the institutions that used to be the solution to this field. Then, too, something that can of course be defended and is important enough in itself, has been dedicated to caring for those who commit crime, but also mentally ill rights, consent requirements, etc. There are some issues that cause some people to end up between two chairs, that some people are too sick to be in prison, but too healthy to be able to be placed in forced mental health protection. It's a reality; it was seen on TV 2 during the weekend, where you had a report about a few people who were paroled from custody, given the fact that they're too healthy to be forced into mental health protection and for sick to be in prison, but at the same time very dangerous to society, and against which society has to protect itself. They have then chosen to create a system that is very, very expensive — that is one — and that also requires these people to be followed. There is no perfect solution, but it is, after all, better to have some of the solution to these challenges: potentially dangerous people, in this case violent criminals and killers, among others. a person who has committed an assault on a five-year-old child — a very dangerous person — against whom society must protect itself. Then one must also be willing to consider the type of proposal that is being promoted in Stortinget. The progress party last year suggested tightening up precisely in this area, ensuring that the people who are dangerous and who we must protect ourselves against, who are mentally ill, who we cannot put in prison. We had to consider proposals as late as February this year, concrete proposals that would point in the right direction to do something about this type of problem. I guess no one is surprised if I say that they only got the votes of the Progress Party. It's sad, because here I think all the good forces should pull together. The first is that you assume that we don't have a proper system. So we might be able to solve this in many ways. One example is that if one cannot sit in prison, the solution should be mental health protection. There could be one variant, but other proposals have also been put forward in the debate. The point is that we have to solve the system problem. It's the most important thing. And then I hope and believe that you get better interaction between justice and health. You might also be able to listen a little bit to the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the Storting, and not just vote for them on impulse.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1135	It is good that the representatives take up this topic again, but it is very strange that it happens a little over two months after you have voted down proposals that would actually address the issue raised by the interpellants. That's what this is about. And as people at the grassroots would say, it's going to be a lot of pretense and little action. That's a bit how I experience the debate that's been here -- there's a lot of talk about that we have to do something about, we have to deal with this. The previous government wouldn't tighten up considering what happened. In fact, they did the very opposite and reinforced the consent of people who do things they are unable to know if is good for themselves or others. The question is really whether one is willing to take the debate properly and make sure to take action that will help to do something about it. As I said in the previous debate, the father was alive every day for his life, for the life of his family, and for the life of the person who was mentally ill. He feels that both the police and the health services – both of them – say they can't do anything, you have to talk to the other person. For the family and the people standing in the middle of this, or the neighborhood living in a terrible situation with a person who made trouble, insecurity and insecurity for the people living in the neighborhood, it doesn't help when one says that the other has to clean up when the challenges are there. The question is whether you are willing to take the grips you need to clean up this. It's actually like this – and now I'm going to be ready – that the new government at least says you shouldn't reduce the number of daily places in psychiatry. But you've reduced almost half of them in the last twenty years. We still see challenges with people who need – and should be at – a place where you are not at risk to yourself or others. As a former policeman said, in the past, we talked to each other between the authorities, between the police and the health services. But there are a lot of laws, rules and other things that we've made that makes that interaction and that talk not as easy anymore. So it's kind of nice to hear when you say you have to talk more together and do more together. Yes, then you have to make sure that you can do it. It is one of the challenges when I listen to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health, that there is too little concern about what you want to do concretely. We need concrete action here, and that was one of the aims of the proposal we made a little over two months ago, which unfortunately was voted down by all parties. I experience a little too often that there's a lot of commitment in this room, but there's little willingness to do the concrete things that make sure that you take care of the one that's at risk to yourself and others, but also takes care of all the others who experience and live with the uncertainty and uncertainty every day because you can't take the right steps. It is good that the Council of State says that an expert committee should be set up. I don't think – if you go out and talk to those in the services – they need a selection of experts. I think they need us to actually start doing something, because they know exactly where the shoe presses and what needs to be done. I hope you stop talking soon, that you start doing something. Psychiatrists say that after changing their consent skills, it's a lot harder to put people under compulsion. They come to the emergency room, then it goes three to four hours and then they're out again and there's the same situation out there. It is strange that the police have to join in when health services are going to pick up patients and drive them to the emergency room. But then the patient travels home again afterwards and then family, friends or others are in the middle of it. The municipality says they will not come because the person has been violent against the inventory in his house. The person has not been violent against people, but against the inventory in his house. I guess that's a sign that there's something that's not good, I think. I think it's good to take up the interpellations, but I hope that the parties who say they're busy with this, soon to be involved in action, make sure we do something and not just talk. That's what people out there expect. And as the father said to me, I'm sorry because you don't understand, because you can't understand when you don't make decisions that can clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1154	After the previous speech, it may be nice to remember that we have worked well on health policy for eight years and made eight budgets together. All the changes referred to in the Amundsen and Hoksrud posts are changes that have gone through the government in which they have been sitting. It's also a little bit on the side of what's really the theme of this interpellation, and I wonder if you've read the Ukom report. What this is about are people who are convicted of forced mental health protection, who have done things in psychosis, and how to treat them. We agree that the Forces Act is demanding. With regard to the psychiatry reform that led to a massive decline in institutions in psychiatry, there are processes from the well back to the 1980s, and clearly something has been lost on the road. That is why I have today suggested that we might need a new special reaction. Maybe we should look at security homes, maybe we should look at other solutions – that's why. I initially said that I have worked on this matter for a few years. I had an excellent collaboration with Solvency Horne in the period she was a judicial spokesperson in the Advancement Party, but then things happened that made this stop a little bit. But the Progress Party should thank you for the commitment, because unlike all the other parties, they set up, and that's very good. I would like to thank the Councils for their good answers. It shows that they have taken care of this. Then I'll make another reminder. The State Research Commission on Health and Care was established a few years ago in Stavanger, against the votes of the Centre Party and the Labour Party, but I hope the Councils see the value of this report and other reports and how important it is. I hope they see the value of this commission. In their alternative budgets it has been so far removed, but now it must be allowed to live on. When it comes to interaction and cooperation, we can just say yes, we're talking about cooperation, but that's actually what's the key. Haugesunds Avis wrote, just after the much mentioned killing in 2019, that the police say they have 14 ticking bombs that they don't control. I was in the media then asking why the chief of police station can't talk to the head of psychiatric clinic in Haugesund, so they can talk about these 14 people who are ticking bombs. We actually have to work together at that level, because that's pretty few of them. It's not that cooperation is making each of its reports. Cooperation is to produce a joint report on the topic of addressing the challenges in a comprehensive way. I am going to be with both the Advance Party and the government parties to look at the entire compulsory register and the entire law around it. There's a NOU on over 800 pages that's still waiting for its end in the department. But the question of coercion is a little bit larger than this. In many cases, coercive treatment actually works against its purpose. What we have to work on is to balance society's need for protection against individual needs and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1169	My interpellant has been about the same thing -- there's going to be a big debate where you mix up a lot. There has been a misguided development, across governments and over a long period of time, with fewer daily positions in institutions, for the benefit of more ambulatory help. It is in line with both international recommendations, human rights, etc. But people who are a danger to themselves and others, we have room for it. That's really not what this is about. In these cases, it's very clear what can get better. It's about people convicted of forced mental health protection. It's interaction and what happens after printing or between agencies, this is about. So we've said something about it. But I'm going to agree with Hoksrud and others that there are some examples here where Ukom's recommendations can apply, for example. in this case, with a request from the police, where they may also complain if the person is subsequently released. It's an opportunity that they don't use, that exists today, that can be part of the solution, both for those who are dangerous and psychotic, and for others who may not be as dangerous, but where you suspect it. I interpret the ministers there that there is a work going on both in interaction and in information flow. It is very good that police districts and others are informed of these possibilities. Then I would like to stress how important it is not that the debate be held here at Stortinget, but that it is taken out, both in police districts and in health businesses. It is interesting with a selection of experts on coercive legislation and consent competence. It is a slightly different matter, but the use of coercion has increased after the change in 2016. And it's hard: how much force are we going to have? Where does the boundary between social protection and individual rights go? In which cases is coercion good for individuals and for society, and in what cases is it not? So thank you for the answers from the ministers. Once again, I would just like to stress that now we have some suggestions on how this can be followed up, and I look forward to both the follow-up and a broader debate on the instruments and enforcement legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1182	I would like to thank the debate and thank the inter-pellant, who has put an important theme on the agenda. It is very important that this debate and work to improve the interaction between health and justice not only comes on the agenda right after a serious incident has occurred that characterizes the news picture, but that there is something we have with us in the job we do every day, and that we work long-term to make changes, because it is required that we look closely at different parts of the problem, both follow-up of the sick, how the police can best use their resources for health, and many other things. I am also very pleased that the debate has shown that there is a broad consensus on the Storting that it is an overall social responsibility to follow up serious mentally ill people at risk of violence, and that it is an overall social responsibility to provide good treatment and safe follow-up. Then I would like to point out that it is not just about those who are convicted of forced mental health protection. We also need to be able to capture those who are seriously mentally ill, who are at risk of violence, and prevent them from committing acts that endanger life and health. The serious incidents we have seen in the last year, or recently, have primarily tragic consequences for the offended and their relatives, but they also have serious consequences for the convictions or patients who commit the crimes. And when we don't manage to prevent and provide adequate treatment and social protection, it's also very bad because it can lead to an increased stigma to mental illness in general. And we must not forget that there are a few serious mentally ill people who commit serious crimes. There are many people with serious mental health problems, often with drug problems at the same time, with a risk of violence, who have major problems and challenges in mastering life and who need extensive and coordinated efforts from specialist health services and community services. As I said in my first post, I want to take with me the experiences described in the Ukom report, in the further work on following up this demanding group. It includes both looking for improvement points in the treatment of those convicted for special reactions, but also how we can best follow up others with similar problems before it ends up in a special reaction case. I am also very concerned about taking experiences from those who are out there and know where the shoe prints, and who are working on these challenges every day, in the police and in the health services. For us, input from the Police Directorate, the PST and the National Attorney will also be important premises in the further dialogue with the health authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1198	I would also like to thank you for an important debate. Interpellants specifically ask how the Ukom report will be followed up. It will be followed up – that is the short answer – both by my colleague, the Minister of Justice and Emergency Response, and by her underlying offices and by what I am responsible for, as Minister of Health and Care. It's important that we also talk about the most important thing we can do to prevent tragedies, and it's to make sure that people who are struggling get caught up and get help as early as possible. The Minister of Justice and Defence and I agree that there is a need to clarify responsibilities and division of tasks between police and health. Among other things, we must: address the borderline cases between our legislation, and that is the way in which these two different agencies work together every single day in the service. We also need to strengthen cooperation between healthcare and other services needed by patients with long-term and complex needs. These are often people who need help from a variety of different institutions in our society. We have prioritised and strengthened the work of outreach services through the establishment of several outreach and interdisciplinary teams where both the specialist health service and the municipality cooperate closely with the user, and where the help is also provided where the user lives. It's a reinforcement that we started with in the supplementary number of the year's budget. Yesterday, I visited Lovisenberg, who has both user-controlled beds and reinforced housing, and the fact that the specialist health service is also involved in establishing housing for the mentally ill, is part of the innovation we also see. Then there is someone in this debate who is raising a slightly different and larger debate, about the conditions and the framework for the consequence of many more being judged for mental health protection, and also for forced care. There are also challenges we have to go into, and see if the solutions we have today are over time. We have to deal with this with safe enough health care for those who get such a reaction because they are sick when they commit the act. Then I am glad that there seems to be broad support for evaluating conditions for consent to the Mental Health Act – the amendment that came in 2017. It's a point in the Hurdal platform that came into place before these single events, and it's an important evaluation to look at before we deal with the rest of the legislative proposals in the forced field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1213	Then is the debate in Case No. End of 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1229	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1238	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its swift and thorough examination of the matter. There was a written hearing, and we got four recordings. There is a broad consensus on the importance of full child care coverage and the importance of offering children room in kindergarten in the future, and the Committee sees that there may be challenges for families who do not have room for their children. The Committee believes that early participation in kindergarten is important in order to strengthen children’s language development and social skills. The Committee also believes that it is important that all kindergarten children have a good and inclusive playing and learning environment and that early assistance is provided to children who need it. In the meantime, I will explain the Right View of the case. Kindergarten is a good and important arena for development, learning, socialisation, inclusion and integration. It is important that children experience safe and good relationships with employees and other children, and that they explore and discover new relationships through play in their day-to-day nursery. We want more children to be offered children's playgrounds when they reach the age of one year, or when the leave period is over. It is important for the children, for the individual family and for society. We agree with the proposers that this is an important topic of great importance for families and for society. There are different models in municipalities, and several municipalities have continuous admissions or flexible admissions to kindergartens, and it should be assessed how the flexibility and autonomy of municipalities and kindergartens can be further developed to ensure this. When we do not support this proposal today, it is because the introduction of compulsory child care services throughout the country will have significant budgetary implications, and this is a proposal that needs to be assessed in line with the ordinary budgetary procedure. Kindergarten is a very important arena for early action. Quality of provision, diversity and freedom of choice are important in providing equal opportunities for different children. Right will have a society that puts people in front of the system. When the public cooperates with private actors, they play each other better. We have to use the good forces in society. We welcome both public and private kindergartens. The most important thing for the Right is that kindergartens have good quality. The right-hand person believes that anyone who wants to do so should have the opportunity to choose kindergarten for their children. That is why we want to work hard to keep the Norwegian nursery model for equal treatment, diversity and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1261	We all agree that we should have good kindergartens of good quality that create good everyday life for our kids. The extension of the number of kindergartens and the right to kindergarten has been one of the largest freedom projects in the field of family policy in modern times. With the 2003 kindergarten agreement, we got a historic expansion of kindergartens, with statutory rights for one-year-olds, so that they would be secured kindergartens. And we got the maximum price, so families could afford to send their kids to kindergarten. Today it's like 93.4 pst. of all children between one and five years of age, there is a children's gardening space. Children's playground is important, not only for family logistics, but also for the kids and how it goes with them later in life. With toys, learning, social skills and motor development in kindergarten, there is an important foundation to be laid. Ensuring adequate childcare facilities for all children is an important part of giving our young people equal opportunities, as well as of gender equality policy. The representative proposal we are discussing today deals with a statutory system for the continuous admission of kindergartens in Norway. Kindergarten space just when you need it is, of course, the ideal, but introducing a nationally imposed permanent admission to kindergarten, which the Progress Party is now addressing, we know is a costly measure. Presumably, it'll cost $6.6 billion. kr, and that's why we may not find the figure in the Progress Party's alternative state budgets either. It goes without saying that when a measure is so expensive, it will affect other measures. An extension must be gradual and continuous. In the meantime, other important measures are also being taken in the kindergarten area to include more children. We know that there are municipalities that have a continuous recording today, and that are able to practice it in a good way. It's fine. From 1 August we will return to the 2005 level when we will now receive a new maximum price in the kindergarten. After eight years of increasing the nursery price, it will fall again, and there is also an important contribution to the inclusion of several young people in the kindergarten community. The government is embarking on a new quality strategy for kindergartens, precisely to raise quality and because the ambitions of the previous government were not high enough. We are doing a lot of important work in kindergarten, just to give our kids the best starting point and to include more children in the kindergarten community. Of course, an ideal solution would have been babysitting when you need it, but $6.6 billion. NOK is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1278	Norwegian kindergarten policy in the last 20 years has been a success story. There's been a story that we've created broad political settlements that have been at the best for the country's children, and the decisions that we made – that is, I wasn't there, but many others – many years ago, have produced results, because in 2021 there were 93.4 pst. by children between one and five years of age in kindergarten. We're supposed to be proud of that. So when you do politics, you have to be proud and you can be satisfied, but you're never done, because you can always do things even a little bit better. Although the Norwegian kindergarten is good, it can get better. That's why the government has an ambition to both ensure more kindergartens and that they have even higher quality. Then it's important for us that families and people around the country come back to work quickly after they have had children and get the freedom that a kindergarten place gives. The essence of policy is about priorities. This issue is also about priorities, because we in the Centre Party and the Labour Party have made priorities such as: reduces the cost of kindergarten. The kindergarten area is going to be $4,956 cheaper for those who have two children. It's a priority as monks. But we're not done there. This government has further ambitions, and therefore we have announced that we will take measures that will make it even cheaper and perhaps free of charge for those who have three children. And as mentioned earlier in this room, the large number is not 6,6 billion. kr, to be found in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, at the cost of the continuous day-care centre. So I wonder, of course, what kind of magic hat they were going to spend to find that money. This government makes priorities, and that leads to the best both for people and for children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1291	First, I would like to take up the three proposals of the Progress Party on this matter. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are proposals promoted with the Left. In 2001, only six out of 10 children aged 1–5 years went to kindergarten, and a total of 30,000 children were waiting in kindergarten. There were large differences in child care coverage and parental pay in municipalities. Private kindergartens did not qualify for government grants. The 2003 Barnhage Agreement was launched on the initiative of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party and was a milestone in Norwegian kindergarten policy. The decision marked the beginning of a cross-political child care operation that has lasted almost 20 years. The agreement, for which all parties in the Stortinget voted, ensured non-discrimination between private and public providers and provided for the rapid development of kindergarten capacity throughout Norway. In the years following 2003, the Barnhage Agreement formed the basis for Norwegian kindergarten policy, and the central objectives pursued by Stortinget stem from this agreement. One of these objectives was full childcare coverage, and the statutory entitlement to kindergarten was introduced in 2009. In 2020, the proportion of children with kindergarten was increased to a total of 92.8 p.p. The entitlement to kindergarten is valid for children who reach the age of one year at the latest by the end of November of the year in which they are applied for kindergarten. If the child reaches the age of one in the course of August of the year in which he/she is applying for a post, the child is entitled to a seat by the end of August. Today, the vast majority of municipalities have one nursery. With today's scheme, women may have to go on unpaid leave for up to half a year if the child is born in the wrong month. When you are born, you should not have anything to say about if and when you get kindergarten. A recent survey from Nav shows that half of all women take unpaid leave. Lack of accessible children’s playgrounds after the end of leave is an important reason why many parents have to take out unpaid leave. As we could see recently on TV 2, it's often the lowest income ratio, which unfortunately is often the mother, who will have to take out the unpaid leave. The party of progress is a party that is motivated by action. We believe that time is overdue to change today's nursery reception. Only in the reduction of cash support as a result of the increased number of kindergartens, the Ministry estimates a saving of 750 million. NOK, and it says a little bit about the size and how many people are on unpaid leave because they are waiting in kindergarten. The Progress Party believes that it's the families who know best what's good for their family. Some choose to be at home with the child on their own initiative, while others will quickly get back to work. It is important that those who want to get back to work should be able to have a kindergarten, and that it is ready when they are ready to return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1314	The representative Tor André Johnsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1319	The massive expansion of the nursery provision we have seen over the last decade is a major welfare reform that we should be proud of in Norway. In kindergartens the children get a good start. Through play and development, you are guided by competent employees, and that on the premises of the children. The fact that all children have room in the nursery is, of course, also important for equality, so that both parents can get to work. But we still have to make the offer even better, and it's a big problem that many families have to wait up to six months to get kindergarten. Therefore, SV wants to introduce continuous admission to the kindergarten, but there is a lot that needs to be done before it is both possible and wise to make a decision about that. In particular, the manning situation in kindergartens needs to be improved first. The Ministry of Knowledge has calculated that current nursery admissions will require 25 000 new kindergartens. A rolling admission to kindergartens will mean that about 4000 children will be offered kindergartens each month. This means that kindergartens either have to be rehabilitated and that more kindergarten teachers have to be added, or that more kindergartens will be empty throughout most of the year. That is why we agree, among other things. The Education Association, which says that it would be wrong to prioritize such a massive increase in capacity before the basic quality is put in place. The sector is already seriously understaffed. Childcare workers report that they are not stretching to and worn out, and then we need to solve the challenges of staffing, competence and management resources first. That is why this spring SV has already made a proposal in Stortinget on national measures to help municipalities fill up, so it is only time to get started. And then we can finally get a continuous recording.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1330	In March, it was known that the proportion of mothers taking unpaid leave increased sharply after the spring quota increased from 10 to 15 weeks in 2018, from 30 pst. in 2018 to 48 pst. in 2021. There's also an increase among men, but the number is much smaller: from 5 pst. to 11 pst. Increased withdrawal of unpaid leave is not a problem in itself. Families who have the opportunity, desire and afford to stay longer at home with their child than they receive parental leave shall have the freedom to choose it. However, it is a problem if parents are forced into such a situation, for example: because there is no nursery space available. It is also a societal challenge that so many more women than men choose unpaid leave. The women are losing on this. There is already a pay gap between men and women in Norway. If you choose unpaid leave, you lose – in addition to income – pension and sickness pension rights. In addition, it helps to reinforce a trend where women’s career development is slowing. That's not good. It is important that public welfare systems support important values such as equality. Therefore, a three-part parental leave is important. Father’s having a historically high quota helps men spend more time at home with their children when they are very young. It doesn't mean much to what attitudes and role models children have – and we could have said a lot about that together, President. Kindergarten is an important arena where children develop in a safe and stimulating environment, find friends, toys, and teachers. A high-quality kindergarten offer can help children who receive little language stimulation at home develop a good, Norwegian vocabulary and understanding of concepts before school starts. Early kindergarten start-ups are preventive and less likely to require language measures at school, especially for children from low-income families and minority-speaking children. Today's nursery legislation is better than ever, but still unfair. It's both impractical for the families and something that draws the equality in the wrong direction. Families with parental leave, which expires between December and August, now have to go without kindergarten until they are entitled to it in August of the year when the child reaches one or two years of age, for the part of the December children. Today’s system is faltering because the parents of winter children have to live with much greater uncertainty and financial burden than the parents of summer children. I myself have children in two such coals. People must have the freedom to choose to have children when it suits them, not when it suits the state. Therefore, the introduction of the nursery guarantee from parental leave is completed, one of the last obstacles that will keep children out of kindergarten even if parents want to make use of the offer. It will enable more families to have both parents at work – one step towards more equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1349	I think most people in this room may agree that a good goal is to work to provide kindergarten space from the time families need it and want it. An extension of the right to space in such a way that all children have the right to space from the child to the age of one year or from the end of parental leave will be positive for both the children and the parents. It helps parents to get back to work faster and helps children to start early in kindergarten. It is also a measure that, after all, will lead to a more equal society when we know that there are usually women taking unpaid leave while parents are waiting in kindergarten. Although I think the intention of the proposal is good, I must at the same time stress that extending the right to space is a costly measure. The Ministry of Knowledge estimates that an extension such that all children will have a right to leave from their one-year-olds will cost about 6.6 billion. kr. This cost is so high that I have problems seeing how we can find money to fund it as it is today. In addition, 25 000 new kindergartens will require the educational activities of kindergartens. Most kindergartens are not rigged for continuous admission throughout the year. I therefore believe that, together with the sector, we should think carefully through how we can best solve the challenges of getting used, manning and stability in the children's group before extending the right to space. To make the kindergarten offer more accessible to everyone, we promised at the Hurdal platform to reduce the maximum price in 2022. From 1 August, the maximum price shall be reduced to the level of the kindergarten arrangement. We know that today there are many municipalities that are doing a good job of implementing flexible childcare services, for example. through continuous or multiple admissions during the year. In the state budget for 2022, the government has strengthened the municipal economy. This may allow more municipalities to offer early start-ups in kindergarten. In addition, we are working to improve the ability of municipalities to adapt their childcare facilities according to local circumstances and needs. Through the work on a new quality strategy for kindergartens, we will also look at how day-to-day childcare can be better organised. This will help to facilitate the prioritisation of the municipalities that wish to do so by providing more flexible childcare facilities and childcare facilities earlier than they have been able to do up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1374	Thank you for your input. I feel that we share the intention that as much space as possible should be placed in the nursery as possible. It will contribute to the benefit of society and the individual family. So, as the Council of State says, and as we know, it's precious. We know at the same time that some municipalities have a continuous recording, and many municipalities have more recordings. My question to the Council of State is: How can we help to increase flexibility, so that more municipalities can have more babysitting, for the benefit of children and families? Is that what this is all about? And how will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1381	I think some of the representatives of the Supreme Court were inside their post, are part of the core here, namely that the municipalities want to be flexible and offer places quickly, but are totally dependent on getting staff and quality in place in parallel. I think that strengthening the local economy can contribute to some more flexibility and make sure that municipalities have the opportunity to run the risk of having a continuous recording or more recordings in a year, because it gives more uncertainty about whether you fill all the places. I also believe that the work we are doing in terms of quality, the dialogue with the sector on how to increase staffing, and also working all the time to get more people to apply for kindergarten teacher training, is important. I think we have to do two things at once: increase the inclusion of children in kindergarten, while also constantly developing the quality of kindergarten. These two things are likely to make it better for kids to go to kindergarten in the future, and make sure that more people are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1390	While the government is very concerned about tightening up private kindergartens, I am convinced that the parents are most concerned about the contents of the nursery, the quality of the outdoor areas and that they get space in kindergarten when they need it. Children think I don't care if the nursery is private or public. Today, we are discussing the proposals of the Progress Party for recording, but in a few weeks we will also discuss the Left's model. The parents, the people and fortunately the Storting are also concerned with these questions. That's very good. In contrast, the Hurdal platform says nothing about admission to kindergarten, I am familiar with it. The question to the Council of State is: will the government take any initiative during this four-year period to ensure that children are offered children's playgrounds when they need it? In this case, what initiatives can we expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1397	It could be heard from the representative Rajas that tightening up with the private kindergartens is not part of increasing the availability and quality of our kindergartens. The whole reason for the tightening up is that more of the money we give to kindergarten is just going to work in and for kindergartens. It is an important part of ensuring that, for example: money can go to increased staffing, quality development or other projects that improve access to kindergarten. I think that the grips we take on the private kindergartens will help to keep more money in the sector, and also improve the quality of it. And I also believe that by strengthening the municipal economy, more municipalities will have the opportunity to offer kindergartens earlier than that entitlement to kindergarten. Besides that, I have not intended to necessarily reveal all my good plans for the nursery for the Storting on standing feet, but I look forward to further discussion with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1404	It could be heard, from the preliminary part of the Council of State response, as it was that tightening up private kindergartens could lead to increased absorption and more frequent absorption. I don't see that whole connection. When you tighten up on those who give a lot of diversity and the number of kindergartens, how does it ensure that children get access to kindergarten when you need it and that it becomes a continuous admission? Will the Council of State explain how it is logically related – that tightening up private kindergartens will provide more opportunities for children to be admitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1409	What I just said was that we're making sure that more of the money allocated to kindergarten stays in the sector can contribute to increased quality because less money disappears out of the kindergarten sector. And I said quite clearly that in parallel with strengthening the municipal economy, it can help more children get into kindergarten. I'm absolutely convinced that these are the two ambitions that we all have for kindergarten, that more people should have the opportunity to participate. It's about price, and it's obviously about availability. But the grips on the private kindergartens are primarily about the fact that money allocated to kindergarten is going to kindergarten, and I am sure that it will help to improve the quality of the nursery facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1416	I don't see the logic here. As far as I know, the high-quality private kindergartens in surveys usually come out, at least on average higher than the public kindergartens, and what the Council of State says, is that by tightening up private kindergartens you will be able to achieve higher quality. It's at least a logical flaw, when we know that parents report higher satisfaction, and in studies, the private kindergartens have come out with higher quality, so as it were, the reasoning really doesn't matter. But my main question, which I haven't been given an answer to, is whether the government is going to take some initiative to ensure that children get access to kindergarten when they need it during this period. As I understand it, we cannot expect such initiatives from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1423	In that case, it is a relative interpretation of the answer I gave to the question, namely that I am not necessarily going to reveal just now what things we might have to work on on that topic. So I think it's also on the verge of wanting to misunderstand my answer, because the private kindergartens get high scores among the parents on quality, is very, very good, but think how high a score can get on quality if more of the money stays in the sector. That was my whole point – and the reason that many of us are concerned about tightening the rules to the private kindergartens – that money allocated to kindergartens should go to the children and kindergartens. So the representative Raja himself used an example that parents are more concerned with the quality of the outdoors than with who runs the kindergarten. Well, one of the grips we take in the new rules for the private kindergartens is, among other things, grapple to ensure that kindergartens have a dedicated outdoor area. So these things are obviously related, and there's no reason to separate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1430	I share the opinion of the Council of State that there is a will in the municipalities to offer more children a kindergarten throughout the year. At the same time, we know that municipalities have to deal with the legislation in force – a legislation that aims to ensure good quality for all the users of kindergartens, but which is also necessarily designed in its form with a certain rigidity. My question is therefore whether the Council of State is willing to look at the legislation around, for example. Manning and land standards may be softened to ensure that more children can be offered space during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1435	We say in the Hurdal platform that we need to have a review of the norms to see that they work according to purpose, and look at what can get better. I understand the question from the representative Vamraak in this way that there is always a dilemma between increasing capacity and at the same time getting the quality to stick with. I think that our municipalities and our kindergartens are so different, the size of the children's coals is so different, and how much the municipalities have to go on within each kindergarten year is so different that creating an absolute and definite common plan for the country is how to possibly ensure that more people get continuous babysitting, I'm not able to say on the standing foot is a wise approach. But I think, as I said earlier, that working evenly and hard to improve quality while at the same time ensuring that municipalities have the economy to have the flexibility to offer kindergartens to more than one in the past is two important steps we take in this area. And then I hope and believe that we will discuss kindergarten quality and intake many more times in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1441	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1448	In the proposal for a regulation, the proposers include a theme that addresses many of us who are or want to become young children's parents. Having a right to babysitting from the child is one year old would be a great relief in a worrying childhood. I myself have a son who was born in February this year, and thus will not be right in kindergarten until he is one and a half years old. My family and I would like to see that we had a right to babysitting when my son is one year old and a year of paid parental leave is over. However, I do not want to vote in favour of the proposal promoted by the representatives of the Progress Party, because the proposal is too expensive. According to the Council's letter of reply, it will cost $6.6 billion. kr each year to grant a nationwide right to kindergarten from 1 year of age. Under the government of Solberg, the right to children's playground was extended from the fact that the child had to be born before the end of August, to the fact that children were also born until November. It has given greater flexibility to families with children. However, giving children born in June the right to be accommodated in kindergarten from one year of age is clearly a costly solution with today’s system. Today the nursery has to set up an empty space at the start of August, a place that remains empty, but with full costs for staffing and areas throughout the year until the place is put into service a few weeks from June. This is bad use of resources. We could imagine other and more flexible and appropriate solutions. We could look at average calculations over the year of staff requirements and land requirements, we could look at when the year children actually turn three years old and need larger areas, and we could look at other flexible solutions to give more municipal and private kindergartens the opportunity to offer vacant places to children born at ‘wrong’ time of year. Unfortunately, however, such assessments have not been included in the draft representative nor have they been assessed in the opinion of the Council of State or in the Committee's consideration of the proposal for a representative. The representatives of the right shall therefore vote in favour of the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1477	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1486	It is widely known that the construction industry is responsible for significant emissions, both in Norway and internationally. Both steel, concrete and other inputs that are absolutely essential to construct modern construction require a lot of energy. Although Norway is a country that has ample access to green and renewable energy we can use in our processes, it is still such that many of these processes are naturally characterised by large CO 2 emissions. We're going to cut emissions significantly in the next few years. If we're going to be able to do that, we're going to be totally dependent on getting the emissions down in the construction industry. In order to do that, we have to think a lot more circularly. We just have to use things several times. We are also totally dependent on providing new and longer value chains in the construction industry. This is circular economy. The government is already well under way, for example: to strengthen those trainings and to increase the skills to be able to separate and reassemble building in a less demanding way and in a way that leads to smaller emissions. That's good, but we have clear ambitions that in the future we will see more zero emissions of both excavators, dumpers and concrete cars not only on the construction site, but hopefully eventually also in the training course. It's also worth noting some rarities at Right's suggestion. It is true that the social partners – LO and NHO – are active participants when training is to be put together, and this is an important principle. That principle surprises me that the Right has chosen to go away from. In conclusion, I would like to say that we in the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are busy cutting red tape, and we are also concerned about having confidence in people. So it's the way, as the Right famously showed in its last reign, that the path to a bureaucratic society lies through good intentions and a whole bunch of plans and suggestions. I hope we can manage to cut that down. Finally, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up of the intentions of the curriculum on sustainability, as well as circular economy and recycling in dismantling and construction to be followed up in vocational and vocational training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1507	The representative Torleid Swelle has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1512	If we are to achieve the climate goals, we must take action in all areas of society. The construction industry is a large and important industry with many jobs and a significant climate impact. This sector accounts for approx. 40 pst. of global energy consumption and approx. 30 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions. Builders’ ware comprises more than 80 pst. of the emissions from the sector. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change indicates that a large part of the building stock currently in existence will also exist in 2050 and that rehabilitating and upgrading the current building mass is therefore an important contribution to reducing the emissions from the sector. The re-use of materials from construction that are no longer appropriate to continue and are therefore to be dismantled will be important in the coming years. We in the Right are therefore very pleased that the majority supports our proposal to ask the Government ‘assess how to raise and formalise the competence of professionals in the building and civil engineering sector and return to the Storting with a plan for implementation. The plan should have specific themes such as: – how sustainability, circular economy and re-use are seen in the master plans for modular vocational and vocational training, to be renewed in the summer of 2023 – how disassembly and re-use can fit into professional careers». In the work on this proposal, we have been in contact with many actors in the industry and many knowledge institutions at different levels. Everyone agreed on one thing: an increased level of competence is needed. In addition, we need to raise the status of those who are working on demolition and dismantling. Knowledge is necessary if we are to extend the life span of construction and if we are to design and plan in the future construction from a circular economic perspective. This means that knowledge of the use and lifetime of materials, how construction is planned and set up, as well as processes of demolition and dismantling must be part of all relevant education and training at all levels. It is also important to provide training to those who are currently working on this and who do not have any training in the field. It is good that sustainability is part of all secondary education, but knowledge of the potential of the construction industry to contribute positively to climate accounting can only be realised if knowledge becomes available to all. This means that continuing education is also important for teachers at all levels, and that education becomes available to those who are not students of ordinary secondary school. Reinforced sustainable conversion in construction will not only save the environment for large emissions, but also establish new value chains and business models that can provide the basis for new green jobs while the competence we acquire can become an export article in the years to come. This is a real cheek egg. With that I formally promote the suggestions on the right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1538	The representative Kari-Anne Jønnes has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1543	It is an important theme raised in this proposal. It is also a bit to turn open the doors. I have to say that the government has put this on the agenda, and that is clear demands and objectives in the education programmes we have. But it's good that the Right wants to repeat them by promoting this proposal and these questions. These are multidisciplinary challenges pointed to here. I have to say that in many contexts it is to have competence in destruction, tearing and digging down waste important to have. It is important for the person to do so, but it is also important for the person to be competent to place orders. For public and private contractors to carry out tasks in the future, these requirements and competences must be sought in the work to be done in order to ensure that this is done in a good way. This is why it is so good that these curricula have been incorporated, that the objectives of competence in education and training programmes have been incorporated into it in a way. It can probably be reinforced and made even better. I think that our learning institutions and the teachers in the construction subjects also put this on the agenda, because they know how important this topic will be in the future. I have to say that we have a government that is betting on professional matters. It's done it from day one in its period. We have a government that is betting on equipment and machines and renewing things, through the budgets that have been set up, and through the priorities that have been implemented. It is a government that sets its objectives, and it is a government that makes clear demands on the private sector and on the public sector related to the issues addressed by this proposal. It's a shared responsibility for everyone, no matter where you are, for example. in education programmes or as a public contractor, that this is done in a good way. In the Nordic Council, we have said that the Nordic region should be the most integrated and sustainable region in the world, and we have also said in Norway that we want to be sustainable. The government also has clear environmental requirements and objectives in the Hurdal platform. Having zero emissions is important in the future. I would like to say that perhaps those students who are in the profession today are learning well about it, but perhaps there is a need for those who have been out in the labour market for a long time to be properly filled through continuing training, to ensure that these objectives and requirements are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1558	If we are to succeed in transforming our society into the climate crisis, both to cut emissions and to create well-being and values of work in the future, we are totally dependent on the skills of skilled workers and other skilled workers in the vast majority of industries and sectors. We also need to transform our education and our education needs to transform society. Employees must be able to fill up professionally with the changes we see in our society. If we are to reach the climate goals and transform the economy to stay within the sustainability of nature, re-use and circular economy are absolutely necessary. The resources we rely on are limited, and we have to spend as much as we can again. This also applies, of course, to construction. If we're going to reduce the amount of resources and energy used and bring down the emissions, we're going to have to spend more time. Dismantling the building to reuse the materials, rebuilding it to be used again, adapting the materials to reuse – all this requires even more competence. Fortunately, much is already happening, and it has been referred to from the pulpit as well. I would also mention that the first zero-emission construction sites are already running, and at home in Eastfold, at Dynatec in Ashim, electric excavators are produced. Much remains to be done, but this development must also be reflected in our training courses, so that future skilled workers are given up-to-date training. So one explanation of vote: SV is in the position behind the majority recommendation from the committee to ask the government to consider a plan. After the Committee gave its opinion, the Centre Party has promoted a loose proposal in the Chamber that is not just about asking the government to consider something, but actually follow up sustainability, circular economy and re-use in vocational and vocational training. We believe that this proposal in SV is better and more binding. Therefore, rather than the majority voting of the Committee, SV will support this resolution, which involves a change from the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1569	I'm glad that the knowledge sector has been early in renewing and converting the training, so that students and apprentices can build up knowledge about what's going on to help develop a cleaner and greener world. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in the new curricula developed as a result of the renewal of the profession. There are three multi-disciplinary themes in which one of them is sustainable development. The multidisciplinary themes are reflected in the curricula of the individual subjects. New developments and the need for new competences also lead to the creation of new apprenticeships. The building assembly subject was approved in March 2022 and is a good example of a subject that has been developed as a result of the industry’s need for new skills. This subject deals with, among other things: to produce new buildings and structures and to dismantle reusable structures in new buildings. I am, like the proposers, also concerned with lifting and formalising the competences of adult professionals. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there are the same curricula and objectives of competence in the field of education used in the training of both young people and adults. I think this is very important, so we don't develop an A and a B letter. At the same time, it is important to recognise that adults may need flexible and organised training. Modular structured adult training is an example of the organisation of adult everyday and working life training. Both the Minister of Research and Higher Education and I are concerned that there should be good offers at all levels of the education system that meet the individual's and work life's needs for competence. This is why the government has increased the investment in the vocational schools and continued the sectoral programmes. Vocational schools and higher vocational education have become even more relevant for good transition to the green shift because they can quickly provide short, practical training that the labour market needs. The theme must also be reflected in higher education, in particular in the provision of training for teachers to teach according to the new curricula. Finally, I would like to strike a blow at the tripartite cooperation and cooperation bodies we already have in vocational and vocational training. These are my most important advisers on vocational and vocational training. Their role is also well anchored in both the ILO Convention and the Training Act. My experience is that these are very well qualified to give good advice and are conscious of their social responsibility. I am therefore confident that the professional offers in higher education, vocational schools and higher education will be developed in accordance with the individual's, society's and work life's needs for competence. I believe that the objectives of competence in curricula provide a starting point for training that supports climate change objectives. I therefore believe it is to enter open doors to ask for a separate plan for how the theme is made visible in the curricula. I trust that the teachers are working well to develop good teaching on the basis of the objectives of today's curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1593	Thanks to the Council of State for the article. I notice that both the Council of State and other representatives from the government parties are talking about professional and professional training, but that is only part of this. It is very good that we have been given sustainability as one of the interdisciplinary topics, and I trust that the teachers in vocational and vocational training do a good job. I also trust that tripartite cooperation works. But the professional advice that develops new careers takes a long time. It's a very long process. If we're going to achieve the climate goals, and if we're going to make sure that those who are out of work, and raise the status of those who are working on demolition and dismantling today, something has to happen quickly. Then my question is to the Council of State: does the Council of State have plans for the systematic focus of continuing training for teachers on the demolition and dismantling of materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1605	It's true that it takes some time to develop new curricula, but the curricula we're talking about here are approved as late as March 2022, and it's not very long ago. By, inter alia, Sustainable development is one of the multidisciplinary themes that are throughout the school, and it will also reflect both when teachers take on continuing education and training, when we work on the individual subjects in each school, and when we work on the achievement of the students' skills objectives. I really have no reason to believe that this is not something that works well with all the places where it is natural that it works. I understand in particular the representative's desire to get more detailed knowledge of what status is, but since this has just begun to work, I believe that we need to give it some time to actually do just that. Then I'll again stress that I have confidence in the teachers, who are working on these topics in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1612	I also trust those teachers. I can also agree that it is too early to say whether something is working or not, all the time that has just been introduced. What I'm sure is that what's going on in ordinary high school doesn't work for those who are out in the construction site and who are responsible for those things in everyday life. It is largely unskilled; it is largely adult people who have never gone to school or have any education in sustainability and circular economy. Those people have an incredibly important place in our society. Is the Council willing to contribute to raising the status of the important job they are doing, so that we achieve our climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1619	At least I am absolutely convinced that claiming that adults working with demolition and dismantling today, mainly those who have not gone to school, are not contributing to raising the status of this profession. They do an important job in many important companies that we are totally dependent on, both to set up and take down buildings and buildings in this country. Then I am absolutely sure that the construction industry itself is engaged in being competitive, and that sustainability is also part of what distorts competition for the benefit of companies that are betting on it. My job is to be a minister of knowledge. I'll do what I can for the students to learn what they're going to do at school. I'm going to help make sure that we have a vocational school offer and a higher education offer to make sure that you can take what you need through your working life. I am not able to answer if this is something that is valid for each employee of each individual company, but on the educational side, I think we are well on track to comply with the ambition of more sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1628	As many people have said, if we are to succeed in transforming our society into the challenges we face, and in particular the climate crisis, we are also dependent on the transition of competences, among other things. for more reuse and circular economy. In this case, SV has given a majority to an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, which asks the government to follow up the intention of the curriculum on sustainability as well as circular economy and re-use in vocational and vocational training. So far, what preliminary thinking has the Council of State taken on how the government might intend to follow up that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1635	I think the answer to that is two-part. One is about the dialogue we have with the sector in terms of implementing the innovation process, and the dialogue we have with the teacher organisations and others working in the field, to hear how things stand in Norwegian school, among other things. with these themes. The second is about using the cooperation of the parties we have, to help develop our education offer and to listen to the employer side and the employee side about how they feel that this is the case. So I think, since there's 28 seconds left of my speaking time, that I'm still going to take the freedom to add that it's that we have vocational schools and continuing education, that we have the opportunity for adults to take education and fill in with competence through a professional life, I think it's very useful here. Technology evolves rapidly, and the needs change rapidly, and the fact that we make sure that we have a system that allows more people to learn their whole lives while they go to meaningful work every day, I think is enormously important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1642	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who have the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1649	There are some things in this debate I just have to comment on, and that is for example. that when the representative Asphjell is talking about destruction and burial, it is proof enough for me that there is a need for an upgrade of knowledge in all of us. When the representative Swelle says that this is well taken care of in higher education and in the multidisciplinary topics, I disagree with that. I agree that this is well taken care of interdisciplinary issues in higher education, but I am not talking mainly about higher education. So it's like 600,000 adults haven't completed and passed high school, and that's the 600,000 adults I think deserve an offer of knowledge and competence in sustainability and circular economy. Indeed, many of the 600 000 jobs in construction sites every day, and they are an important tool for us as a society if we are to achieve our climate goals. We have to make demands on knowledge and competence, but when we make demands, we also have to offer knowledge and competence. We have to make sure that there is always an open door into education and into the workplace. We do not contribute to the provision of narrow courses of education, or to the need for all to be completed through the ordinary secondary school cycle. Both the building assembly trade, as the Council of State said, and the new construction trade are very important subjects in high school, but we can't expect adult people who work in the construction site on a daily basis to have the opportunity to go through the ordinary secondary school course, and they can rather go straight into a vocational school course. So what we in the Right wanted to focus on and want to achieve was simply a plan for how we can make sure that anyone who has important work in Norway today can be replenished in terms of sustainability and circular economy, so that we can all contribute to the green shift. And when we know that the construction industry is responsible for so much climate emissions, it was a completely natural place for us to start. We haven't completed any processes in a short time, because this wasn't about the ordinary high school cycle – it's about a whole, and we believe the whole thing deserves that we have a focus on knowledge and competence at all stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1658	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1674	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, in part-allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from the main speakers of the parties and members of the government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1683	The backbone of this case is very gloomy – the war in Ukraine, the sufferings we see, and not least all that we don't see, a refugee dream that we have rarely experienced. At the same time, we have experienced an acute deterioration in the security policy situation. In this proposition, one suggests going 14.4 billion. kr to actions directly linked to the war in Ukraine and its consequences. It is divided into civil and military preparedness. It is divided into the reception of refugees and some support for the particular business environment. There are matters that are urgent, and we have a closely ongoing revised national budget coming on 12 May. So this isn't an extraordinary budget round. There are other things also related to the Ukraine war that will be dealt with in the revised national budget, among others. issues related to health. The SV and the Right in the Committee support the entire proposals of the Government and the structure presented by the Workers' Party-Center Party Government. The other parties support these proposals in a subsidiary way. The self-inclusion for this will be drawn in the revised national budget. However, the Committee has pointed out some Ukraine-related issues that an emphasis in the form of a note is important to the revised budget. This applies to the competence of children in the reception of asylum. That's true of the crisis centers. It applies to the lending arrangements for sporting and activity equipment, and it applies to measures to strengthen police action against trafficking in human beings. All are important and relevant issues to which the government will evaluate and come back to in the revised national budget. I would like to thank the majority of the Committee on Cooperation. We invited you to make some recordings. There are several parties that have benefited, and we have tried, as far as possible, to meet them without creating a new round of budget. When it comes to the refugee dream, we have to meet people with warmth and care, but we also have to ensure that we have control. The municipalities asked to receive 35,000 refugees. It's a very high number. I would like to thank the municipalities for being as responsive as they have been. There is a lot of money in 2022 to deal with different crises, but we have to do it within the framework of safe economic governance, and it adds this proposition and its treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1698	I listened to the post of the representative now in the room, and he spent a lot of time just highlighting that this package should not be like many of the other crisis packages we've had on Stortinget in recent years, with bidding rounds – one had to stick to the regular budgetary rounds to do such things. There's something that the right has also been concerned about, and we share that view. However, I have to say that I think that the negotiation process that the government parties put up in this matter in Stortinget has been somewhat strange, because it had not been necessary to promise any extra money, given that we said very early that we could support this arrangement without asking for more, precisely because we share what the representative was busy with in his contribution. However, it is not correct, as the representative said in his statement, that these measures agreed with the Swedish authorities should be assessed towards revision – they should be strengthened. That's also what the matter says. So what election vows will the Center Party put on hold to satisfy the SV's needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1703	I thank you for the question. It is true that all the measures mentioned in the comments in the context of the revision, whether it is the strengthening of the child-care competence of refugees, the strengthening of crisis centres, or the securing of funds for children and young people who come to the country and do not have equipment, so that they have things to contribute to leisure, are, in fact, measures that the Centre Party and the Labour Party think are huge and important, and that SV has thought are sensible. After thinking from the setting, there are some other parties that have said that this is something that they support. So the fact that a couple of tens of millions of dollars here is kind of the difference between whether this is a budget round or something that meets Right's norm and standard, I disagree. We have adhered to the government's proposal, and it is firm and is the promise we make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1710	No one disagrees that the additional measures negotiated here are fine in and separately. That is not exactly what we are discussing either. What we're discussing is exactly what the representative himself was about to highlight in his post, that we had to end up with rounds like that, where you have to run up the bids in Stortinget, and that everyone has to have their case in order to support what is absolutely necessary expenditure increases. So now we're going into a time that the Minister of Finance, too, has recently spent a lot of time warning us, because we can expect even higher interest rates than what is necessary if we can't keep up the use of money. And then again, my question to the representative is: What election vows do the Central Party want to wait to satisfy these extra tens of millions that the representative mentions – without us fully knowing what the sum is actually going to be, because we won't see that before we come to revision? What is the Senter Party going to do to make sure that we don't spend more money than we need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1715	There is a lot of evidence that the Right Strategy here has not completely hit – that there would be hundreds of millions of dollars in demand, so that we had to choose between Right and SV. It could seem like it was the strategy. But one of them has raised 24.7 billion this year. to exceptional measures in response to the pandemic. One has paid 19.6 billion. kr i met with the high power prices and now 14.4 billion. kr. Then, one in age will come back to the overall picture – what priorities you have found room for and how they are being covered in the revised national budget. But I stand by those measures, whether they are crisis centres, strengthening child-care skills, equipment or the fight against trafficking in human beings – which are not major posts, but which are particularly important measures that all parties that support the comments believe are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1720	Negotiations on this crisis package have not been. It is probably due to the relatively large consensus that it is absolutely necessary to take action due to the war taking place in Ukraine. The consequences of this are absolutely greatest for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, but it also creates some consequences for people and businesses in Norway. For this reason, the Progress Party wanted measures to be put in place to address these concerns. I see that the representative Pollestad in today's business on 27 April appears to be a shaky doubt in terms of the uncertainty, among other things. The war is now creating for the Norwegian economy. On the one hand, he has the information from the Ministry of Finance, the macro figures, which indicate that everything is going well. On the other hand, he meets a lot of companies out there, he says, who are worried about the cost increases. The question is who is right. Is Pollestad still in doubt, or has he concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1727	The idea of a sloping doubt is something I often know about. I believe that the representative Limi should also know at some point, because I think it's the times we take in knowledge that we evaluate from the meeting with the reality that we live in, that we develop the good policy. I think it's demanding in a situation where on the one hand we know that many companies are struggling with the extra costs, while on the other hand today is the day in Norway's history that most people have gone to work. It is a goal that even more people should have a job to do in the days ahead, and that is the basis for economic governance. It's when these two things meet, that this becomes a little bit difficult and I find reason to ask some questions. But what's absolutely certain is that in the situation we're in now, it's important to hold back money use and give clear priority, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1734	I just want to start by thanking you for the cooperation we had in the committee. I think it's been good, and it's good to see that ordinary committee work apparently also leads, even though the media may be more concerned with games and big meetings. Then I will refer to what is in the matter both from the government and in the committee's position related to East Finland and especially the situation there. I'm probably not the only one of the representatives here who get worried telephones from business and local people that are uncertain about the future. We are several parties asking the government to follow the situation closely, to assess the impact of the sanctions imposed and to assess whether there is a need for further action in addition to what we are to adopt here today towards the revised budget. Will the government follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1741	There is a lot of criticism for the government, but that one does not follow the situation closely is not one of the things being recorded. When it comes to the business systems of this proposition, there is one thought that they should be limited, and they should be related to the companies that are directly affected by sanctions, either that they are close and in a way have an economic relationship with Russian companies, or that they otherwise have a significant share of turnover there. Both the Central Party and the Labour Party are concerned that it is followed up in a good way and that the money is used after the intention. In the proposition, there are some conditions that one of mine is the right one, but I would also like to stress that one has to show flexibility, but that this should be a narrow scheme that is targeted at the companies I call.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1749	I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. Like the representative Pollestad, I think many of the measures are very important to meet all the refugees who will arrive, whether in the field of trafficking in human beings or in the field of pediatric competence, to ensure that they are well received and integrated. I agree. One of the other consequences of the brutal war is the price increases. It will be exciting to see the state's offer tomorrow in the case of farmers. We have seen the power support, but also in the case of fuel, there have been large increases. It's one of the feedback I've received very clearly, of course from ordinary people, but also from businesses. Pollestad and the Central Party and Government have not been willing to agree to any support schemes for industry in terms of electricity or fuel. My question is: when the SSB estimates that the price increase would be at 4.1 pst. without the power support scheme, and if something had been done with the petrol price, it would have worked in the same way and damped the price growth, which is positive whether it is for wage fixing or interest setting. [[The President clubs.]] Why doesn't the Center Party want to go for such a model anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1758	We are busy having safe economic governance, so we have control of interest rates, so that more and more people get a job to do, and that we take Norwegian economy seriously. I think we have to get a little bit out of the position that one was under the pandemic, where there were no limits to what one could use. There was a danger of standstill throughout the economy. The unemployment rate was acutely rising. Now she's historically low. Then you have to put the funds in a different way. It is clear that the sum of all good measures could be that the economic situation is getting worse, and then it won't get worse for those who have done it financially. Then he gets worse for those like him. has the highest loans. There's an overall assessment here, but I mean, for example. a compensation on the current of approximately 20 billion. kr is a significant investment. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1763	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1768	This is one thing we would like to be in addition. The curtain is that there is again war in Europe. Who could have imagined it just a few months ago? The setting of the case shows that all the parties in the Storting have taken it seriously. Norway must contribute its own. We must accept our share of refugees from Ukraine. There is a need for swift action on our own military and civil protection. We support the European economic sanctions against Russia, while the Norwegian companies that are hit hardest need our attention and the support of society. The government asked in this case for something as unusual as asking the Storting to approve the use of 14.4 billion. kr without proposal for containment. Then there's also an extraordinary situation. Some expenses now run independently of the date, but the government must have authority from Stortingen to use this money. I am therefore very grateful to the opposition parties, all of whom have contributed to the broad approval of the government's proposals in the Stortinget. Without it, the first occasion would be the examination of the revised budget in the second half of June. Then Norway would sadly end up in the back with other countries and the things that are urgent about the war. Last week the Prime Minister had a statement in the Great Britain about the war in Ukraine. At the same time, some of us sat in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and adopted recommendations to our respective governments to give full support to Ukraine. I'm glad the Storting will follow it up today. At the same time, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly unanimously adopted a call for our governments to support the current work to prepare a future criminal case against those responsible for human rights violations in Ukraine. It is about documentation and securing evidence of the future production of Putin and his inner circle for an international tribunal or through universal jurisdiction, where Norway can also contribute. No one can be unaffected by reports of gross violations against civilians in Ukraine, bombing residential areas, torture, rapes, pure executions of defenceless people. Thus, there is now an important effort to document such human rights violations under the authority of the National Attorney in Ukraine, with the support of forensic technicians and non-governmental organisations. Norway must also support this work. In the meantime, we must help to give the Ukrainian refugees a safe and good place to seek refuge, where they are best received. We need to strengthen our own preparedness, but at the same time take into account that we are a border state, where it is in everyone's interest that we maintain contact, without compromising human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1788	There is no doubt that the measures contained in the proposal are both necessary and important, not least in response to the refugee crisis we are facing and also to the needs of both defence and civil protection. That's why, from our side, we were also early in providing support for the proposition, which we thought was important not least in order to avoid getting a handover round in the Storting, with a significant increase in expenditure and a virtually uncontrolled situation outside the ordinary budgets. The question is more about the fact that it is a little surprising that the government, when it makes a proposition, asks Stortinget to be allowed to use a little at the top of 14 billion. kr more, do not have proposals for containment. It has been suggested that the use of oil money has increased, and it is suggested that we can re-prioritise something within the aid budget. But my question to the representative of Christoffersen is, can she rule out that there will be tax increases in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1795	Thank you for the question. We cannot answer questions related to the revised national budget now. I can't answer and say that I know what's going on in the revised national budget. The Minister of Finance may be able to give a better qualified answer than I am, but I doubt that one will start with leaks from the revised national budget from the Stockholm pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1802	Now perhaps the answer was about what I expected it to be – that is, there was no answer. But I think that as responsible government parties, both the Workers' Party and the Center Party have been thinking about how to finance 14.4 billion. NOK extra in expenses. So I believe that the question is in no way irrelevant, and that it is something that the government parties should have thought about, if they haven't done so far. I may be able to interpret the answer so that it is not entirely irrelevant that tax increases are also assessed against the revised national budget. Are there other types of cost cut that have also been assessed among government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1809	Once again, we are, in a way, far inside the scope of the revised national budget, but there is no secret – and the Prime Minister has probably also said it from the Parliamentary Chair, if I do not remember correctly – that we went to elections on a good deal of electoral promises. We started well with the 100-day plan for the Workers' Party, which was 39 out of 40 points completed in the first 100 days. So much has happened since that requires spending: the war in Ukraine, a new shutdown of Norway, electricity prices and all that the representative knows very well. The Prime Minister has been honest that then some other things may have to wait, without me being able to answer here and now what it is that has to wait. But the most important thing we have to do first, and the war in Ukraine is well what tops that list right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1816	The Progress Party fully agrees that we are now in an exceptional situation. It requires swift decisions and good action. However, what we are not satisfied with is that the measures will be limited. Yes, they capture what is happening, what is the consequence of the war, and they help Ukraine, but the war also has some consequences for the situation in Norway, both for ordinary people and for Norwegian businesses. There's a growing concern out there. We see that the number of debt collection cases is increasing. The Progress Party has proposed to eliminate taxes and reduce price increases and has a number of measures that have been put in place, but which do not receive a majority — nor have they been negotiated, because it was rejected. Is not the representative of Christoffersen concerned about the developments we see and the reports that come from both ordinary people and Norwegian businesses? And does the representative think it's enough to keep waiting and seeing, or just follow developments closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1823	That was not a completely unexpected question. It's a little bit in the same street that the representative Pollestad answered here a little while ago. Of course, we're all connected, our parties are in government together. Of course we're worried. What we've done in terms of power support, what we've done in terms of housing support, shows that we're concerned about the situation of ordinary people. We're presenting a limited case here today. It's not a full Ukraine package, it'll probably come more in terms of Ukraine as well. But the priorities in a comprehensive perspective don't come before in the revised national budget, so I can't answer anything more than that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1831	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1836	February 24th marks a black day in European history. Putin's war in Ukraine brings inhuman suffering. Ukrainians watch the cities and their homes being bombed into pieces, millions have fledgling, and they sacrifice their lives in the fight to keep Ukraine free. That's why it's absolutely right to spend money on dealing with the consequences of the war here in Norway too. Our municipalities are going to make a great effort to settle Ukrainian refugees. Kindergartens and schools should receive Ukrainian children and young people and provide them with a good training offer, volunteering with extra offers, and there is a need to strengthen defence and civil and military preparedness. We did the same in the 2015 refugee crisis. All crises require crisis response, but we cannot treat crisis packages as ordinary budgets where all parties are to negotiate various heart issues in order to support absolutely necessary expenditure increases. That's exactly why the Right was early on in guaranteeing a majority of the government's proposals. It is a pity that the government parties would not be part of it, but they also talked to SV and promised even more money. For each of the heads we use, something else has to be cut, or the use of oil has to be increased. Right-wing concern is that overbidden policies in Stortinget will create an even greater pressure on the Norwegian economy. Interest rates are already announced to increase. We spend too much money, it's actually so that ordinary people and businesses quickly have to pick up the bill through higher interest rates. So, like the Støre government, the Solberg government spent extra money on all the necessary measures during the last refugee crisis. But at the same time, we proposed where the money was to be collected, and we covered most of it by re-prioritising the budget. The package we presented that time was $9.5 billion. kr, and only SEK 1.2 billion. kr was taken from the oil fund. It is no doubt unfortunate that the government has only made proposals for expenses, without suggesting where the money will be taken from. Right-wing believes it's absolutely right to spend money to compensate for the consequences of the war. So that's why we were ready to give full support to the government's proposal, because that's an important difference in what we need to spend money on, and it would be nice to spend money on. I am addressing the proposals to which the right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1853	The representative Tina Bru then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1860	I agree with the representative and the right that very much of the policy lies in the containment, and it is clear that one will probably see a bigger gap in this committee than one does in the position of this particular case. At the same time, I would say that it is a paradox on the Right to criticise the SV and the government parties in order to make some headway towards the revised budget, which is just going to be a budgetary process in which different good actions must be weighed against each other, while the Right is involved in the good intentions. In other words, the right is behind the fact that it is important to be able to offer activities in local settings, such as sports and leisure equipment. The right is behind the importance of strengthening the child-care competence of the receptions. And the Right has its own special comment along with the Advance Party related to disability and community health services, and about engaging in dialogue with private health professionals to assist. Would it not also, at the end of the day, lead to costs if you wanted to prioritize them?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1865	First of all, I would say that we do not really criticize SV in this process. I understand very well that SV wanted to ensure something in this case that they will negotiate the revised budget with this government and no deposits are on the table. What SV really has to do right now is almost give some kind of blank authorization that this money we're going to find when we're going to review. So it's no wonder that SV wants to put some leads on what they want. My criticism has actually gone against the government parties, who have spent so much time warning against spending more money and have wanted what they have called a broad settlement, had a kind of negotiation that has not really been a negotiation, but nevertheless agreed with SV – which is not unnaturally stated that SV is the cooperation party. That's what I'm criticising; it's not primarily SV. It is true that we support the comments on the good intentions, but it has not been given – because the government has not yet been judged – that the answer is a strengthening of the measures. I agree that leisure activities are important. I agree that crisis centres are important. But whether more money is actually needed now, is now a bit difficult to say. Therefore, this has to be assessed towards revision. I understand the intentions – if not to promise concrete more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1874	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1879	The fact that the Storting now agrees to grant more money to help refugees and strengthen the Defence is a logical consequence of a war action in our neighbourhood. And of course, the Progress Party is fully committed to facilitating the reception and good handling of women and children who have to flee from Putin's attack on a peaceful neighbouring country. The attack and the war in Europe have also become a serious alarm, both for Norway and for the rest of Europe, because it shows that peace in Europe is not a matter of course. And the absence of war requires a strong defence, and a clear and consistent security policy and a strong defence raise the threshold of war and enable us to defend ourselves if necessary. The Progress Party therefore considers it necessary to strengthen defence beyond what has now been proposed by the government, which is relatively small measures that can be implemented rapidly. But we need to take a bigger discussion about how to strengthen the defense in order to build a sufficient preparedness to be prepared if necessary. Let's hope we don't get into this situation, but that's always the insurance premium we have to pay. The Progress Party has proposed to strengthen border control beyond what has been proposed by the Government. It is because we share the concern of the police that people in transit across Europe can be exploited by people with bad intentions, and that is why we need better border control. In total, there is much agreement on the broad lines of what the government proposes, concentrated around refugees and preparedness. What the Progress Party lacks is that the other consequences of the war that is taking place – the consequences for people in Norway and Norwegian businesses. We see that other countries grant large amounts of money to help both their businesses and ordinary people who are struggling to cover their expenses because of the large cost increases. That is why the Progress Party has proposed to eliminate fuel taxes, we have proposed a better power support scheme and will halve the VAT on food, precisely to reduce the price increase and make it easier for people to deal with everyday life. Unfortunately, there is no support for the proposals, nor has it been invited to any debate on this type of proposal in this case. I address our proposals and will also signal that we are going to support proposal No. 21, from the Left, to grant money to a weapon fund now. Otherwise, we will also propose that two of our proposals, No. 23 and 24, turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1892	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1899	For the Right, it has been important that these crisis packages are directly linked to the needs we have in Norway, in order to be able to accept Ukrainian refugees in a proper way and also to renovate our own defence and preparedness, and that the packages are not used to ride their own political bargains, with which we had some experience when negotiating the pandemic packages. Thus, the party taking this opportunity to propose a reduction in fuel taxes as a crisis response. I guess these are temporary emergency measures, and that Ukrainian refugees are not being used as a breaker bar to get permanent or cheaper petrol. I wonder, when does the Progress Party realize that these fees will be raised again?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1908	I assume that the representative knows about the Party's fiscal policy. Had it been all the way up to us, the fees would not have gone up again, at least not to the level they are at now. So it's like the Storting makes tax decisions every year in connection with the state budget, so the proposals we've been making here, and also proposals we've taken up in other contexts to compensate for the consequences of the war that's going on, are not taking advantage of a situation, it's taking reality into account. There we're a little surprised that the Right doesn't do it. But we have been very clear that these are emergency measures that will apply to 2022 and until the Stortinge takes new decisions, which it is natural to imagine will happen in the state budget for 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1915	Then I understand that this is not a crisis response, but an introduction of the Progress Party programme, adopted in 2021 before war and crisis. Perhaps more important for Norwegian households than cheaper petrol is that people can afford their mortgages. This is Right's concern. The Progress Party is one of those who want more crisis measures that can maintain the purchasing power of goods and services that are lacking. This drives inflation in the weather, so that people get less of their money back. Then the Norwegian Bank has to increase its interest rate, and we know that a normal Norwegian family with about 4 million. SEK in loans, must be paid by NOK 40000 in increased costs if the interest rate increases by only 1 percentage point – NOK 40000 in increased costs as a result if the size adopts many emergency measures. I wonder, after all, the size will not be able to compensate for all of the things that are going to be increased costs in the future. What does the representative think of NOK 40,000 in additional costs as a result of several crisis packages, for which the Progress Party is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1923	I don't think so much about the calculation that was now presented. What is the reality is that we now have a huge price increase in Norway. Individual products contribute to that price increase. On many of these goods we have a very high fee level. The Progress Party believes it would be right to reduce the price increase by reducing or removing the charges, so that we bring the price level back to the level that was the precondition for the state budget that the Stortinget has adopted. It's very good to see the effect of doing that, because the government signaled an extension of the power support system just in advance of the start of the payroll settlement in the front. This helped to achieve an expected price increase of 3.3 pst. from Technical Calculation Committee and not 4,1 pst. which would be the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1928	I would like more people to actually think about what the consequences of the proposals that are being promoted in the Grand Duchy can have for the economy of ordinary people, and that 40 000 more dollars a year in increased interest rates for ordinary families is actually a major intervention in their economy. But I'm going to ask another question related to the proposals of the Progress Party, because they're also proposing to increase the number of soldiers in Homeland and to increase the number of practice days. These are adult people in full-time jobs who are then taken out of their positions, which can be anything from the IT manager of a large Norwegian bank to those with a permanent presence in critical infrastructure. So the proposals of the Progress Party can therefore weaken the preparedness we have in the civil and private sector by the fact that critical personnel actually have to meet for duty in the Home Office instead. I, who am concerned with both defence and preparedness, but also with civil and private protection, am somewhat interested in hearing what assessments the Progress Party has made to arrive at this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1935	As the representative of Nordby Lunde is sure to know, the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal to strengthen a number of branches and areas of Defence, including the Home Office. And what we know is that if we're going to get more people in the defense -- that's a critical factor today -- we're going to have to recruit more people, and we're going to have to train more people. The same applies to Home Guard soldiers. This is not something that can be carried out overnight, but you have to spend time on it. But we have to have an ambition to lift the defense, both in terms of equipment, in terms of competence and not least in terms of personnel. I believe the acts of war in Ukraine have shown us how important that kind of forces and resources is when a war action occurs. It is the view of the Progress Party that Norway must also take over, and that is why we have promoted this proposal which contains a number of measures that we believe should be implemented in the Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1940	It goes a little bit in the same direction that Heidi Nordby Lunde also picked up. The size decided this week to spend 14.4 billion. kr on measures like that when we sat here in December and adopted the state budget for the current year, it was totally unthinkable that we should do so. No one had those suggestions on the block. The proposals we see from the Progress Party today, on the other hand, are recognizable Progress Party policy. Can the representative, Mr Lili, give one example of the proposals they are making today, of tax reliefs they would not have promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1947	It's just reading our alternative state budget, you know what we want to promote in tax proposals. It's not a secret. But now we're in a very acute situation, and it really surprises me that the Workers' Party is not willing to see that it's a very demanding time for ordinary people. It is the turn of ordinary people, as was preached in the campaign last year. Now the situation is that ordinary people have problems covering the electricity costs, they have problems filling the tank on the car – for those who depend on using the car in their everyday lives – and not least the companies have major challenges. Many industries with small enterprises face huge challenges. That is why we have promoted these measures which we believe are necessary now as a crisis response, as well as the other proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1954	A quick summary shows that the proposals of the Progress Party amount to 21 billion. kr or something, while the package to help refugees from Ukraine, who are to ensure Norwegian preparedness, to increase our defence capabilities, amounts to 14 billion. kr. Does the Progress Party have any thoughts about the impact of the 21 billion, or are we going to wait in suspense to the revised budget and see when they come up with proposals for new taxes on plastic bags or other things to cover it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1961	I can certainly object to saying that the representative Jacobsen is going to live under the strain until he sees our alternative to the revised budget we are very excited that the government is going to present. There is a great need for detection regardless of what the money is spent on. The proposal of the Progress Party, which goes beyond what the government has proposed, concerning concrete refugees, preparedness and defence, is precisely to remove and reduce charges. So that means we're reducing the state's income at a time when ordinary people are struggling to pay the bills. At the same time, the State has huge extra revenue, far beyond what was foreseen in the State budget by the representative Jacobsen. So here it's both a side of revenue and a side of expenditure, but because of the energy prices in particular, it's going to be a very big extra income for the state. We think it's right to use some of them to help people out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1968	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1973	Yesterday I visited the Caritas organization and met three young people who had come to Norway from Ukraine during the last month. We talked to them about how the escape had been — it had naturally been dramatic — but also about how the reception here in Norway had been, and their experiences of the receiver. What was perhaps most striking was that all three were incredibly concerned about stressing that they got their basic needs covered, and that the most important thing now is how Norway can contribute to winning the war in Ukraine against Russia. Their concerns were naturally most related to the peoples who were left, of their family and friends in Ukraine. They also reported a reception in Norway that is still characterised by some chaos — perhaps for natural reasons — at present, there are some plugs in the system in the receiving device and a lack of information. This means that the municipalities throughout the country now stand and are more likely to accept the people who come to Norway, still have not accepted them, while many still live at receptions that are most temporary, including some poor follow-up. I think it's going to be very important for the government to follow that situation, get rid of those plugs, provide good information for the refugees, and not least that they get the offer of psychosocial follow-up, not only on the day of arrival, but also further on in time. We also know that 40 pst. of those fleeing Ukraine now are young. This is why it has been important for SV to have an impact in order to strengthen the child-disciplinary competence at receptions throughout the country. It's a very unique situation. We've never been in a situation before how many kids come here, and that means that we have to have a scheme that means that there are enough staff with child-care skills and also a structure around the reception to protect and care for the kids. It's not the ones who should notice that uncertainty and perhaps the lack of information of all, most of all. Similarly, SV has been concerned about strengthening the ability to operate in the local environment. It is a matter of concrete access to sports and outdoor equipment, which is to be reinforced by the revision and also of adjusting the capacity of the crisis centres in the event of manning. It's absolutely central. We know that many of those who come now are at high risk of being exposed to trafficking in human beings, and there are crisis centres some of our first line defenses in Norway. I would like to stress that in the case of SV, it is very important to be able to cover for this without cutting the aid budget, because there are famines on the stairs in many other countries. This must mean that Norway's efforts need to be strengthened, not weakened, and those negotiations will come back to us in the revised version. I will discuss the suggestions that SV has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e1994	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2002	The reason why the Right gave reserved support to the government's proposal was to avoid the crisis being used as just a break, as I call it, to promote proposals that are not directly linked to strengthening civil and military preparedness and necessary appropriations to receive more refugees. It doesn't mean in any way that we are against centres of loan for sports equipment, for which there are many good arrangements for today, or to strengthen the crisis centres, where I believe the representative and I share a common commitment, because they are making a formidable effort, especially for women who are exposed to violence in close relationships. But as the representative himself was in: 40 pst. of those who come now are children. It is mainly women and children who flee. We believe that it may be right to strengthen crisis centres in the long term, but that it is not a necessary emergency response. But since this is now an emphasis on RNB – and the government parties of course never want to give any information about it – I could imagine hearing what SV wants to give, what they think is a sufficient sum, as mentioned in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2009	Thank you for the question. Let me first say that the government has now submitted a package. It's not like that package is the absolutely perfect level of action that makes sure that we don't roll over this economy and go into uncontrolled inflation. It's possible to imagine an upsetting of a couple of tens of millions of dollars without it overturning the load. I think that's just a good thing to bring with it, that there's not big things there's talk about here, but there's reinforcement in some specific areas. As far as crisis centres are concerned, they report that they are already noticing the arrival of Ukrainian refugees in Norway. They already have Ukrainian women and children seeking help with them. We have also seen the ugly example of the rape of a young Ukrainian woman who came to Norway. I think we have to innovate that the crisis centres, perhaps in the absence of any better public offer, play a role as first-line defense against, among other things. trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of those women, and then we must take seriously that the resources of crisis centres are heavily under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2016	Thanks for the answer. I understand the objective, but as the representative himself says here, this is in lack of better and other sufficient first-line help. Had it not then been better to use them than limited means to strengthen where we should have strengthened, for example. the security of asylum recipients, or any other part of their preparedness? Again, we are sympathetic both to give more money to crisis centres and to strengthen lending schemes for sports equipment, but that is something that should be taken into account in normal budgetary processes. I have no faith that this is going to overturn the economy or lead Norway into an economic crisis. That's not what it's about, but it's something that belongs to some processes, and it's not using a crisis package for anything other than what it's supposed to be, that's acute crisis aid that meets the needs you have. I have to assume that when the government comes up with a proposal for the Stortinget, at least they themselves believe that it is sufficient and responsible, and it was also right behind it. So SV used it to negotiate new points, and that's what I'm asking questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2023	The government itself has asked for input in connection with this treatment, and I think more parties think better than just two, who have submitted this package. Then I strongly disagree that strengthening crisis centres is not an immediate crisis response. We don't have any other public offer that we can just build up right away. We should certainly do that in the long term, and at least strengthen the crisis centres considerably more in the long term, but the reality is that they already notice it today. It's not just about what's happening at reception, it's about what's happening on the way to Norway. Not everyone comes here through the controlled forms. Many people may be at risk of trafficking and trafficking, and then the crisis centres play a very important role. They already notice that today. So I strongly believe that it is urgent to strengthen their capacity, and that is done by manning. It doesn't cost a lot of millions to do it, and it's a very effective tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2030	The representative Kaski said that the package that the government has presented was not perfect, and it was quite obvious, because only the Right was supporting the government's package as it was. We went into 2022 with the biggest tax increases over 20 years. So since the state budget was presented, we've got a crisis package to deal with pandemics, we've got a crisis package to deal with power support, and we've now got a crisis package to deal with the consequences of the Ukraine war. On 19 January we could read from NTB that Kaski said that the bill for crisis policy had to be settled, and that it would be wrong that everything should be done with oil money. She made a clear and clear demand that the crisis packages be resolved in a revised manner, with tax and tax increases. Is there a guarantee that SV stands by now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2037	Of course, we do not provide any guarantees or ultimatums until we enter into negotiations, but it is correctly described. There is reason to recall and clarify that the tax increases – which I am also proud to have contributed to – are tax increases for all those who have income and wealth above NOK 750,000. The vast majority of Norwegians have been taxed with the budget adopted by the Government Parties and the Swedish Government. However, through this tax regime, we will reduce the differences in Norway and contribute to greater redistribution. And we're going to have to keep doing that. The Corona Commission report showed us that differences in Norway have increased through the pandemic. There's more need for redistribution than before, and now we see a stretch in the team. The party of progress is good at bringing out those who are struggling to pay the bills, and they deserve to be drawn out, and then the other at the other end has better money than ever. Of course, they should be involved in financing the crisis packages and the support we need to provide now. We should also seek other coverage that can help to reduce the activity pressure in the Norwegian economy, for example. motorway investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2044	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2049	It is good that with this package we get the necessary appropriations in place to accept Ukrainian refugees and to strengthen preparedness and defence. Most of the time, there is broad agreement, including with the voice of Red. We have some additional proposals and some re-prioritisation proposals in the field of defence. Now I do not know who has spoken to who, and the round of negotiations we had before Easter can hardly be called negotiations, but I am in any case pleased that the majority – in a clear note – is in favour of strengthening the crisis centres. I expect the government to follow it up, and that ‘strengthening’ means money. For me, that's the only way we can make sure that Ukrainian women who are not on asylum reception, but who are somewhere else where they shouldn't be, in a home that's not good, or in a human trafficking situation, have a place to go. What I don't want is some kind of Dr.Dropin solutions for crisis centers that are free for the state, but cost money for the women who need to spend it. "Crise" depends on where you stand in the world. There is a crisis for Norwegian families when prices of needed goods increase rapidly overnight. I believe that the Stortinget cannot close its eyes to the part of the crisis that affects many families here in Norway today, and therefore Red has also proposed measures in response to the acute price crisis. There's a formulation in the proposition that I would like to address, because it worries me. There the government writes that increased commitment to defence and preparedness in the future will have to go at the expense of resource use for other tasks in society. I disagree. There are many other ways to ensure containment: by scaling down large infrastructure projects, which also increase greenhouse gas emissions, as part of motorway projects; by increasing the taxes of those who have become far richer through the coronary apathy; by increasing the taxes on profits in the industries that have made a great deal of money on the changes in habits and the everyday change we had under the corona. There are many ways to create an economic space in which we can strengthen the Defence, as we need, but without putting it against cuts in the welfare services. I believe that the community can and should set up for those who have it difficult. To me, it is the very purpose of the policy. Then it is not interesting that they at the top manage the price increase well, and it is also very little interesting that the average of Norwegian families has saved a lot of money. I am interested in those who are not doing well with this rise in prices. Red has some suggestions. We are not married to our proposals, but we want the Storting to discuss measures that can solve the price crisis for most people. With that, I will address Red's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2076	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change. No one has signed a line, and we're going back to the regular list.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2083	I was almost tempted to take a sympathy replica to Martinussen on the way up, but I got to stick to the post. Sometimes one says that there is a serious hindrance when one deals with matters in the Storting, but there are few things that are so true as in this matter – both because the serious war in Ukraine is still going on, and because the serious refugee disaster that follows the war is still going on and escalating. When it comes to the government's proposals, which are widely supported here today, it's not so much to say about them as to the fact that there's a lot of reasonable permissions that we on the Left's side are happy to agree on. It concerns both the strengthening of defence, the strengthening of civil protection, the necessary expenditure on refugees and business support schemes that are particularly hard-hit by sanctions. When it comes to the latter, we have at least received a number of concerns – especially from businesses in Austria-Finland – if this is in fact sufficiently targeted. In any case, we want to encourage the government to consider this carefully in the future. We're not making any alternative proposals right now, but I assume that everyone wants this to work as well as possible. In the ranks of the recipients of the permissions in the Ukraine package today, there is a recipient who shines with his absence, and that is Ukraine. The current war is not over. Weapons are still needed and indebted – and that is important. Throughout the spring, the left has been concerned that Norway must now contribute what we can, both of the weapons we ourselves have and can nominate – where the government has done a lot, and that is what they do – and also with the money to purchase other weapons systems that we do not have, or cannot refuse. There it's happened nice a little bit. From the left's point of view, we wanted to allow money for the European Peace Facility, which is up and down. We are also making the proposal in the vote. There is no support. However, in the request for treatment, it was known that the government now wants to contribute money to the purchase of weapons and announces 400 million. a fund in cooperation with the United Kingdom. That's good, but the money isn't paid in this proposition and, as far as I'm aware, it's not in any other proposition for the Storting. So today, I put forward a proposal that I hope can be supported by both the government party and others, that the Stortinget now on Thursday, when there is a vote on this, allows these money, so that they can get started and the money can be used to buy weapons in the serious situation that is still going on in Ukraine. With that, I take up the suggestions that left is part of, and say thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2100	It's a very serious backstop and background for this proposition, and I'm glad that a united political Norway so strongly condemns the brutal invasion of Ukraine. The consequences of the war must be taken into account, and that is why we are also clear that, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we support the measures taken by the government in this proposition. Strengthening civil and military preparedness is essential. We know that Norway is an important country. We are NATO's eyes and ears in the north, and it is important that we strengthen the ability both to sail and to have an overview of the important land areas. Overall, there is a completely different security situation than when this budget was adopted, and it is important that we update the budgets accordingly. It is absolutely essential that Norway be able to accept the refugees who are coming in a good way. We need to ensure good reception, ensure good, safe reception skills, ensure that refugees are not exposed to human trafficking, ensure that they are settled quickly, and ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to follow this up. That is why we think it is good for the government to come forward with these proposals, and as I have said before, we agree to strengthen both the work on trafficking in human beings, the competence of children at reception and better support for the crisis centres, which are important in this work. Then we believe that in Norway we have to take our share of responsibility in accepting refugees. We know that Norway has picked up far too few compared to what we have said we should do. There is a dramatic situation in Europe, and that is why we have to stand up. Furthermore, there is an important and major disagreement in this proposition. This concerns the coverage of whether we are going to use the aid budget. I am pleased with the words that the representative Kaski had here from the pulpit, and that I join 100 pst. Could not It's a global crisis. After the pandemic, there have been several poor people, there are several who are starving, and for the first time in many, many years, unfortunately, developments in the world have gone in the wrong direction. We also know that the consequences of the war are going to be increased food prices, and it's going to be a food crisis that's going to hit the poorest of all. And when we talk about price increases in Norway, it's the same price increase that the aid organisations are struggling with. This means that for the appropriations they have received today, the money goes to less – they meter fewer mouths. And if, as the world's richest country, we are going to cut the appropriations for aid to finance the reception of refugees in Norway, the consequence for the poorest is that everyday life becomes even more brutal. And that is why we are very clear that we must not use the aid budget to finance it. On the contrary, we should rather increase assistance in this situation. I finally take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2118	The representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2123	That's not all that goes forward when there's a line change after the break, but that's the way it is. I'm going to turn to a more serious topic, and that's that we're facing a completely new security policy situation. There is a brutal conflict taking place in Europe. The main task of the government is to ensure security — the security of its citizens and the security of those who come here on the run from the war. The government therefore made a proposal with financial measures of a total of 14.4 billion. to facilitate the enhancement of military and civil protection and the reception of refugees from Ukraine. People need to be sure that we have a solid defense and good preparedness. The government proposes measures that will increase preparedness, response capacity and stamina in crisis and war. We will increase the presence of Defence in the north and strengthen the understanding of the situation and the resistance to digital threats. Overall, the Government proposes to increase the allocation by 3.5 billion. kr for defence and civil protection. The war has driven millions of Ukrainians away. It is important that Norway contributes to the security of this crisis. The government proposed a total of 10.7 billion in the proposal. kr to facilitate the reception of 30000 refugees from Ukraine – a large number. These measures facilitate the integration and inclusion of vulnerable people in a difficult situation. The Norwegian economy is going well. Norwegian business also has relatively little trade with Ukraine and Russia. However, for some enterprises in eastern Finland, the consequences of the war are great. The Government has therefore proposed measures for companies particularly affected by the war in Ukraine. The government will come back next week to the Stortinget with the revised national budget. We will then provide up-to-date estimates of the main figures in the State budget and provide an overall assessment of the financial situation and the budgetary arrangements. When we presented the proposition, the government invited a broad settlement in the Storting. It is important that we stand together on the crisis response in a situation like this. I'm pleased that the parties at Stortinget share this assessment and join the main lines of the proposition. It is a strength that the Storing is as united as possible behind the condemnation of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, that we stress the importance of our joint support to receive them as refugees in a good, efficient and secure way, and that in this debate we too have a tone of community. Just in these kinds of matters, the strength of the Norwegian political system is that we stand together across political dividing lines and stand up for the democratic, fundamental values on which our people's rule is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2140	There is then a call to voting, and there will be a line change as soon as the voting is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2163	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Guro Angell Gimse on behalf of the Right, Left and Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, from Grunde Almeland on behalf of the Left and the Greens proposal No 4, from Grunde Almeland on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a forum to facilitate cooperation between public and private actors in the health sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2190	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Nordic Council of Ministers to establish a forum for cooperation and specialisation in the health sector.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in the context of the State budget for 2023, proposing to extend the Tax Fund scheme in order to reach out to several major health professionals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2219	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Right, Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the framework of strict privacy and data security considerations, the government is asked to return to the Storting with measures to reduce waiting time before authorisation and access to health data for private operators in the health sector.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2243	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 4, by Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 5, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 6, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party the proposals No 7 and 8, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party proposal No 9, from Lan Marie Nguyen Berg on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to remove the VAT on repairs of clothing and shoes.’ The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2281	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to impose VAT on clothing sent for destruction.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals for a law prohibiting the throwing of usable goods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2303	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the government to set up life-related clothing labelling schemes and to return to the Stortinget with a proposal to do so.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2318	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party, Green and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in connection with the State budget for 2023 with measures that will make it more attractive to repair damaged textiles rather than to buy new ones.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2334	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Socialist Left, Left, Environmental Party of the Green and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take part in the development of a pan-European regulatory framework and circular economy measures and to work to ensure that the PEF framework takes into account the overall environmental impact over the life cycle of a product, including microplastic emissions.’ [[Product Environmental Footprint]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2349	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Right, Socialist Left, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for meeting the requirement for separate sorting of textiles by 2025, including the collection, sorting and recycling of textiles, and the recovery solutions that will be needed. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to ensure that textile importers and textile manufacturers ensure traceability in the value chain of textile products and waste.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for support for the further development of an Eco-label scheme covering circular aspects, function, quality requirements, warranty period, lifetime, product design and repair possibilities, including by strengthening the Eco-label Norway and the Swan brand.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2391	All parties have now announced their support of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2411	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left, Left, Environment Party Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, Left and Environment Party of the Greens In the event of an incursion, the right of the vote had remained as proposers on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox This was explained by the rapporteur-general during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to open connections with hydride cables in the development of Southern North Sea II and future marine wind projects.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2440	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of requirements for the investigation of local CO 2 capture and storage of new oil and gas projects on Norwegian base.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2468	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left, Left, Environment Party Green and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of local CO 2 capture and storage from offshore gas power plants for the primary purpose of producing power for new or existing oil and gas projects.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2587	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2597	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2609	A total of 19 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marian Hussein on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2-4, by Marian Hussein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left, Red and Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Sandra Bruflot on behalf of Right and Patient Focus proposal No 6, by Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient Focus the proposals No 7-11, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red and Christian People's Party proposal No 12, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus the proposals No 13–16, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 17, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a case in which they propose to attach rights and finance home visits after birth and repatriation, so that the woman is offered a follow-up of the midwife 3 days after repatriation, and if necessary after 7 days, and home visits of the health care provider after 7 to 10 days for all first-born infants.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2659	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that measures are proposed in the overall review of maternity, maternity and maternity care to facilitate the provision of full and permanent posts in maternity care and to facilitate the recruitment and recruitment of a wide range of health professionals.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2676	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–16, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a separate case to legislate on the obligation of health businesses to provide accompanying services for pregnant women, in order to provide sound services and safety for the child.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that accessible maternity services are provided for families who need them, even outside normal working hours.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that healthcare professionals are given the necessary and up-to-date knowledge of multiple births and that national standardised guidelines for the care of multiple pregnancies are developed.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the leave and benefit schemes for twin and multiple parents and return to the Grand Duchy with a case on proposals for improved and extended leave and social security schemes.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2710	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to replace today’s system of input-driven funding of the food departments with an earmarked system that ensures one-to-one follow-up in active birth.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2728	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for one hour’s offer from a physiotherapist after birth for all midwives to check the pelvic/gastric muscles or other physical challenges after pregnancy or childbirth.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a national centre of competence for maternity care, inter alia, with a view to preventing birth injuries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2752	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 11, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all women with childbirth are offered to stay in the maternity ward for the time it normally takes to establish breast-feeding. Early printing shall be the woman’s own choice.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests that women be offered a follow-up interview with midwife or obstetrician three weeks after birth.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to define breast-feeding guidance as necessary health care and to ensure that all maternity wards comply with the Mother-child-friendly standard and that all health centres are approved as nurses.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2781	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national step-up plan for midwifery in order to ensure the proper follow-up of pregnant women and the safe provision of maternity care throughout the country.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2798	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to define breast-feeding guidance as necessary health care.’ The Left, the Red and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2817	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct Health South-East RHF to continue the ABC clinic at today’s Oslo University Hospital and to ensure that the clinic is strengthened in new OUS.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks in the review of funding models for maternity care to assess solutions to ensure financing of maternity courses, midwifery units in hospitals throughout the country and better interaction between health enterprises and municipalities, and to return to Stortinget on its own matter.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review and modify the funding model for municipal midwives so that municipalities do not lose sight of the provision of follow-up to midwives.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2846	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure the necessary health follow-up after birth, including home visits, in connection with the notified work on the national health and interaction plan and the comprehensive review of the provision of birth and maternity care.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2866	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to legislate on the right to have a support person with whom Mother chooses, during pregnancy and in childbirth and in childbirth.’ All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2915	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2934	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal to amend § 25-6(a) to ensure that doctors cannot be charged an infringement fee for the incorrect prescription of blueprints.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the adopted amendment to § 25-6(a) of the Law on Infringement Fee in order to ensure that the provision does not have unintended consequences for neither doctors nor patients, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals for amendment to this effect.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e2974	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «After one year, the government asks the government to evaluate the change in the patient and user rights law § 7-4a, second paragraph, which allows the state administrator to give priority to the issues to be monitored with supervision and in what way.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3274	It is votered over III, new § 3-7. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3288	It is votated over III, § 7-4 a second paragraph. The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3302	The remainder of III and other Roman numerals are voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3312	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3322	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1–9 and No(s) 14 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3334	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and is governed by Law 61. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 2 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3350	During the debate, Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norwegian children and women living in detention camps in Syria can come to Norway as soon as possible. Those who have asked for help to return to Norway shall be assisted in this respect.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3383	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code so that the right to vote is given to the person convicted of a criminal offence under Chapter 18.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3414	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Criminal Procedures Act I [[good-text detention of terrorist suspects]] Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: Paragraph 172, first paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: b. infringement or attempted infringement of the second paragraph of § 133, § 136, § 136a, § 136b, § 137, § 140, § 145 and § 146 or infringement of § 272. II The law shall enter into force immediately’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3458	Case No. 6 and 7 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3470	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposal No 3, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to ensure full childcare coverage’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for incentive schemes for kindergartens that take children outside of normal admission.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3510	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to establish a statutory system for the continuous admission of kindergartens in Norway. The entitlement to kindergarten shall expire at the earliest from the age of one year or from the end of the parental leave if extended.’;» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3534	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari-Anne Jønnes on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Left proposal No 3, from Torleik Swelle on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that teacher training and the provision of continuing education for teachers provide greater understanding of sustainable development and professional and pedagogical work in all disciplines, in line with the introduction of resilient development as a multidisciplinary theme in curricula through professional renewal.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess how new plant machinery and equipment based on zero emissions can be integrated into the training cycle.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3567	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up of the intentions of the curriculum on sustainability, as well as circular economy and recycling in dismantling and construction to be followed up in vocational and vocational training.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3600	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3670	At that time, Stortinget would normally have reverted to the treatment of today's map, but the president has been told that the meeting must be paused due to challenges with the roof. New information will follow as soon as possible, and it will be called in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3697	Then the president thinks we're ready to start the meeting again, but with a slightly reduced number of seats in the hall. Those who may have seats in the fenced area must find another seat and indicate by hand that they wish to use the word, possibly with a line mark if you want to draw a line. Otherwise you get to yell out as high as you can. We're ready to start the line change, and the first replicant is Mari Holm Lønseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3704	For the Right, it has been very important to support what we perceive is absolutely necessary appropriations to receive as many refugees as we know will come to Norway in the future. The proposal put forward by the government is based on the UDI's previous estimate that there will be 35 000 asylum seekers in Norway this year, but we also know that the UDI has adjusted its estimate for arrival in Norway to 60 000, i.e. almost twice as many refugees in the current year. The question is, what does the Council of State think is the most likely number of arrivals now, and is it that the government will adjust proposals for appropriations in the revised national budget, in line with just the higher estimates?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3711	It is Minister of Justice Emilie Enger Mehl who has the constitutional responsibility for immigration policy, and who also, together with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, has the best overview of any new estimates. So I have to ask the representative that question to the responsible state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3716	I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance for one of the solutions proposed in this Chamber today, and I am thinking in particular of the proposal from the Progress Party that the government must: «nearly implement the changes necessary to eliminate taxes and duties on goods imported from Ukraine and, where appropriate, to make the necessary proposals quickly before the Storting». This was a look at in the nations for a while, too, where the United Kingdom has done just this, and I wondered if I could get an assessment from the Minister of Finance of what he thinks about such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3726	It has not been assessed by the government, to do that kind of action in the customs field. What is also important now is that there are a lot of different initiatives coming in for how we can contribute to the situation in Ukraine. For the government, it was important that we made it very clear that we wanted to spend help money, and that we have set aside 2 billion. to help out financially different assistance measures. It was important that we also clearly signaled it by accepting refugees, and also, as the Storting is well-informed about, helping with various military contributions to strengthen Ukraine's capacity for self-defence. But precisely that discussion about customs has not been a discussion that the government has entered badly. In that case, it has to be very carefully thought through how it will turn out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3731	I thank you for your answer. I understand that you cannot assess everything, but I hope that you can also assess this in the future as a possible measure to look at. But I want to ask another question as well. I want to start by commending the Minister of Finance for being very clear in the last few days on how important it is now to hold back the use of money so that we do not see an increase in interest rates beyond what we already know is announced. That's something we in the right very much agree that is important in the future. I mentioned briefly in my post instead that when we managed the refugee crisis back in 2015, we presented a package of $9.5 billion. DKr, and 1.2 billion of those billions were then increased in oil money use, while the remainder were re-prioritisation from elsewhere in the budget. So my question to the Minister of Finance is whether he has an ambition to be maybe even better than what we were, and how he views the possibilities to finance the package we are about to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3738	When we had the big refugee crisis in 2015, it was important for Stortinget to be able to make a broad deal, which I myself was also an active contributor to being the Center Party leader. Then the Solberg government also chose to finance it quite a lot with ODA-approved funds, which is quite right, because it's part of helping people on the run, it's part of the aid policy. The stuttering treatment took it down a little. Then the Solberg government also chose to fund some of it in the new era, if I don't remember completely wrong. I just need to make it clear that I haven't been sitting and reading the 2015 newsage right now, but I mean to remember that one also did. We will also present in our revised national budget a responsible and safe financial framework, and there will also be proposals for savings. It will come in the revised national budget next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3743	Of course, the discussion of containment is important. I think it's a broad, if not unanimous, consensus in the staging room that we must now avoid strengthening the activity pressure in the Norwegian economy, and that we must help to keep inflation under control. At the same time, we know that the situation we're facing globally right now is precarious. There are several countries on the brink of starvation. There is a real need for increased contributions to address those countries that note the consequences of rising food prices and rising fuel prices. That's why it's an artificial fact that there's a little undertone here that you might need to balance parts of this budget with cuts in the development budget, all the time the development aid doesn't increase the activity of the Norwegian economy or bring it down when you cut the aid. Will the government now consider other reductions in the budget that can reduce the activity pressure in the Norwegian economy when looking at containment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3750	The government will also provide different measures in the revised national budget next week. So it's important to say that the government, along with SV, prior to Christmas, prioritised food aid. Unfortunately, it turns out to be a more correct analysis than we could know at that time. It was one of the active priorities that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV did together, when we prioritised that part of the assistance, and that was absolutely necessary and right. It is clear that one of the main challenges to the conflict and the war we are now seeing is that it is also a powerful force for global food security and food supply, and that is a major concern. The increased food prices we are now seeing could, in the next round, lead to new groups choosing to flee, so the priority that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV made there is an important contribution. Then I have to hope that other countries, too, will increase their food aid as we did together before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3755	An important topic in the debate has been the incidence and risk of inflation. That's how increased demand in the economy is one of the drivers behind inflation, and that's why I'm worried about the demand from the 10 pst. the highest wage in Norway. So they've increased their revenues by NOK 250,000 since 2013, which is more than the average of NOK 117 000. They've increased their income in both dollars and cents. I wonder whether the Council of State in the revised budget will assess measures to mitigate the growth of demand from this group, namely by, inter alia, to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3761	I partially responded to some of the same in the oral question procedure a little over a week ago. Initially, I think you should be careful about making too many tax changes during the year, because some of the security of the Norwegian system is that you have predictability. You print tax cards and people know what to do with them, and business knows what to do with them. The broad lines and major priorities for distribution should be included in the State budget. One of the main priorities of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, also together with SV here in Stortinget, was that those who have higher incomes, over NOK 750,000, would pay more taxes, while people who had less than NOK 750,000 were taxed, for example. that a person who serves approx. 600,000 kroner, almost NOK 2 500 in taxes. That's a classic priority. We believe that the main approaches to taxation and taxation should be in the State budget, because then you can see the whole picture. The revised national budget shall be a revision, not a technical tax regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3766	The left has been aware, through the treatment of this case and also before, that Norway should contribute more to providing arms support to Ukraine. In addition to what the government has already donated from our own material, we think that one should contribute money to funds, which can buy weapons and help Ukraine in their defence struggle. Our preferred solution has been to provide support for the European Peace Facility, which is up and down, and which is the EU's fund for this right now. What the government has said is that they'd rather give money to a arms purchase collaboration with the United Kingdom, $4 million. kr. That's good -- that's a good news. But what's unclear to me, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance, is, does the government currently have a promise decision in the Storting, which allows you to transfer the money and get the weapons transferred as quickly as possible, and when will that happen? If not, would the government like this week, in line with Left's suggestion, to allow the money to be put into work as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3773	It is a completely new situation for Norway and for the Stortinget and the government that we have sent weapons to an active conflict. But the government and I believe that it was right, and so has the Stortinget. I experience that we have had a very close and good dialogue through DUUFK throughout the entire period. Then the difficult balances around it. In the case of the four million that the representative Rotevatn asks about, we'll come back to them in RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3778	We have all been shaken by Russia's international invasion of Ukraine. Every day we are met by images that we thought belonged to the history books. Images of desperate people who are forced to leave everything they own, and corpses that are abandoned in the streets, have once again become part of Europe's reality. After all, Europe has stood together and expressed solidarity with Ukraine. Norwegian municipalities have opened their arms, and private individuals have opened their homes. Recently we could read about the 92-year-old great-grandmother Ermak Zoia, who, after several days of flight, was reunited with his closest friends in Ashley. In all the terrible things that happen, there is hope. That is why I am proud of the proposition of the government that the Stortinget is debating today. Because even if we have our disagreements, the political parties in this room have a clear understanding of each other, across political divisions. There have been some individual proposals, but we agree on the broad lines of this crisis package. This is probably proof that Putin has failed, because while Russia was committed to the fact that an invasion of Ukraine would split us and make us daring, it has gathered us and made us actionable. The result of this action is now a crisis package of 14.4 billion. kr. This package will address refugees in Norwegian municipalities, strengthen both military and civilian preparedness and help Norwegian companies most affected by the sanctions. All of these are important measures that can be implemented quickly by a decision in the Grand Duchy. I'm also glad that we've got some extra points in with SV, which is going to create security for the very, the most vulnerable people in flight. Norway has shown during this crisis that we are ready to stand up for the Ukrainian people for the duration of the war. We will continue to assist the Ukrainian people who are fighting for their freedom, and we will maintain the harsh, but fair sanctions against a Russian regime driven by hatred and tyranny. I'm glad that we have a package that helps those who are now hit by the most terrible people can be hit by, and I'm glad that there's a total collapse that stands together about the big lines of this crisis package.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3793	Last week the municipal committee visited the refugee reception in the municipality of Nordkapp. Both there and in municipalities throughout the country, the message is clear: Norwegian communities and Norwegian municipalities, the large community, are ready to help the Ukrainian people. That's good, because the time we're ahead of us, will require the best of us. We're going to be put on a historic test, and we're going to set up. The measures in this case have an economic framework of nearly 14 billion. kr, where nearly 11 billion. kr goes to the reception of refugees from Ukraine. That's absolutely necessary. It's great that the government is at the front of the shoe in this area, and it's good that such a broad majority in the Stortinge stands behind. Municipalities will have a key role to play in the future work. The most important thing that countries can do now is to contribute to the security of the refugees who come here. For two years with pandemic, Norwegian municipalities have been the defence agency itself, and it is impressive to see how Norwegian municipalities are now mobilizing and getting ready to help in what is the biggest refugee disaster Europe has seen since the Second World War. We also decide to increase the discretionary grant. This means that all municipalities will be better equipped, including those with higher costs in a start-up phase than those covered by the host municipality grant. Recently I visited Søndre Land Municipality. Both there and in many other municipalities, they are particularly pleased with the government's proposal to provide the municipalities with 50000 kroner per reception space provided. It is absolutely vital that the municipalities have built up their capacity so quickly. The risk of cyberattack has increased as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Experience from several targeted attacks in the last two years shows that digital security in municipalities also needs to be strengthened. That's why it's great that we're increasing the appropriations by 50 million. kr to facilitate cybersecurity cooperation. In Finland, we have such a national cybersecurity centre for Norwegian municipalities, established by the municipalities of Gjøvik and Lillehammer. Many smaller municipalities face both professional and financial challenges in caring for this demanding responsibility. Therefore, it is good that we from Stortinget can also help to strengthen the municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3806	It's been a long time since we woke up in February to the first reports of fighting, explosions and rocket attacks in Ukraine. In the days that followed, we were overwhelmed by strong images of families in flight, by desperate attempts to get away. The reports are still coming in. During the ten weeks that have passed, the acts of war have taken place with full force on the ground in Ukraine. It has many ring-effects. Now, when we discuss the Ukraine package, it's both about how we arm Norway for a new era in Europe, and not least about how we can deal with those who come to us. I think we all know a responsibility, and I am happy that we can gather as wide as we do in this matter. Ukrainian children pay a very high price for Putin's brutal war in their homeland. They've been torn out of their everyday lives, away from their safe schools and away from their families. Many children will be traumatized and will enter our classrooms with many strong experiences. We have to bring that with us when we're about to rust our schools. The Norwegian Joint School is the best integration arena we have, and therefore it is important that children who come to Norway receive a training offer as soon as possible. This means that municipalities should start offering a school offer to students, even though they may not be able to offer a 100 pst at once. full-fledged offer. The most important thing is that they get started, that you get them out in the classrooms, that they get involved, both there and in the play in the schoolyard. No matter how long the war lasts, children and young people must have an offer in kindergarten and school, and they must experience being part of it. I am pleased that we have a government that prioritises giving children and young people stability in a difficult situation. Although the case today contains many broad and important measures, it is important that we also equip the community to meet them. Today’s business includes: to equip our schools to receive Ukrainian children. These include: about something as practical as having enough Ukrainian learning material. We can't take away all the stress from the war, but we can make sure that as a community we are as well equipped as possible to make the pain as much as possible, and that we put up together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3827	Prime Minister Støre said in his speech in Tromsø in February, which gave Finnmark hope for a difficult time. The words were clear. He said, ‘At the same time, it is clear that the strong population decline in Finnmark poses a challenge for more than Finnmark. It is also a challenge for the country. We cannot have an empty space on the borders of Russia and the Arctic.» That seemed nice to me. If we are to fill Finnmark with people, we need to be prepared, not just military, but we need to have jobs, transportation needs to be repaired, and not least we need to have a hospital emergency room for people living in Finnmark. South Varanger and East Finland are the gateway to Russia. Finnmark is the gateway to the Arctic. In times like what we now experience, it is important to give people in Finnmark security in everyday life. In this case, we have to work across departments and committees, and we are happy to see that in this setting. Both Hammerfest and Kirkenes must have hospitals, but that's something we need to talk about, especially when we talk about preparedness. A war can bring great challenges to South Varanger, and we can risk the Church Hospital being bombed in the event of war. In such situations, we cannot send sick people from other East Finland to the churches, and then we must have an alternative for which we must plan. For West Finland, we must also think anew. Melkøya, located near New Hammerfest Hospital, has been developed as one of the most vulnerable terrorist targets in the country, among others. by the former Chief of Defence. There are such serious scenarios the current Chief of Defense, Eirik Kristoffersen, and the police are training to prevent. So we have two hospitals in Finland that are exposed in the event of war. It goes beyond the civilian hospital preparedness throughout Finnmark. The fact is that the health company Finnmark Hospital is in practice bankrupt today, and last week they reported that they have to save 89 million. NOK by reducing the bed capacity by 22 beds. How is it possible at a time when preparedness in Finnmark must be strengthened? For emergency reasons, the Finnish health centre must be provided with financial resources to maintain its bed capacity at least at the current level. Funds must be allocated to geriatric bedposts in Alta, in line with Finnmark Arbeiderparti's decision at the annual meeting, and we must also provide Alta with a maternity ward. To the Minister of Finance Vedum and to the Financial Committee: Patient focus asks for this to be included and discussed in the revised national budget. It may be that the patient's focus is on the tip once in a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3845	The Workers' Party-Center Party government placed a high priority on the Hurdal Platform for Preparedness, including: setting up both a Joint Emergency Commission and a Defence Commission. There was hardly anyone who saw the time and relevance of these commissions. In this proposition, the Hurdals Platform signal to strengthen preparedness is followed up. The situation in Ukraine has led to an increase in tension and uncertainty that necessitates rapid implementation of measures. Today, a number of significant measures have been adopted that will have a major impact both in peacetime and in times of crisis, and I would like to highlight some of them in particular. In a crisis situation, time is a critical factor. Thus, funds for the establishment of population alerts based on Cell Broadcast technology are being pledged. Precision warning of danger will also be able to be sent to anyone with mobile phones throughout the country via mobile networks in seconds. Such a system helps to strengthen self-sufficiency and is a significant boost to social security in general. When civil defence is involved, the operational potential is increased by an additional 41 million. NOK 2022. The licence shall include, inter alia: facilitate the training of civil defence service providers and the achievement of the 8,000 civil defence rating. It's going to cost $48 million. kr to cover the material backlog of the Civil Defense Service. The width of military and non-military instruments taken by Russia during winter is extensive. We are strengthening civil protection within the cyber area. We're going to allow an additional 200 million. kr to increase digital security in 2022. Strengthening the response to digital attacks is important. National Security Authority, NSM, operates national response function for severe digital attacks. Some of the actions in the 200 million effort. kr will include, but are not limited to: strengthen the capacity of NSM to coordinate and manage cyberattacks in both the private, public and municipal sectors. We also strengthen the NSM so that the number of enterprises, both public and private, that have installed a digital burglar alarm from NSM to detect cyberattacks is increased. In addition, we're very pleased that it's being allocated 10 million. to voluntary organisations in the rescue service to cover the annual operating and subscription costs of 2000 new emergency network terminals. They raised the volunteer rescue service as an important resource both in peacetime and in times of crisis. In summary, this proposition provides an essential strengthening of essential aspects of Norwegian preparedness. And it is very good that there is a broad political deal about these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3864	The right has always been concerned that the entirely necessary financial measures to address the challenge resulting from the war in Ukraine should be – directly linked to the acute crisis, and not used as a breakpoint for other more or less good proposals. It is about both legitimacy and long-term support for crisis packages. In the negotiations on the pandemic packages, there were several parties that rescued political cowards, who had nothing to do with combating the effects of a global deadly pandemic, such as that. to speed up a full-scale carbon capture and storage project, more money for racial protection and more money for broadband in districts – completely legitimate issues, but neither targeted nor accurate enough to prevent pandemic deaths nor job losses. Now we are in a situation where irresponsible or unscrupulous use of money can have serious consequences for both individuals, families and the Norwegian economy. Inflation is back and therefore also higher interest rates. This is consistent and can become more challenging in the future, because even though rising interest rates are actually a sign of health that means that the economy no longer depends on the incentive that low interest rates give, this is a danger signal. When many countries now experience strong economic growth and activity, prices are driven by shortages of raw materials and output from both pandemic and present war. The price increase resulting from the lack of goods leads to inflation. We pay a lot without getting more back, and then the Central Bank sets up the interest rate to slow down demand. An interest rate increase of 1 percentage point for a normal family of 4 million. SEK in loans means additional costs of approximately NOK 40000 per year. If a responsible economic policy is not now pursued and our budgets give priority to it, the bill is sent to ordinary people through interest rate increases and they must give priority to their budgets. Therefore, it would be irresponsible to continue to stimulate the economy through many new state aid packages and compensation schemes. It maintains a demand for goods that are already lacking. Thus, we can end up in a vicious spiral of price increases, stimulus through crisis measures that lead to inflation and rising interest rates. The support to Ukraine and the legitimacy of measures to take care of refugees, wherever they come from, does not improve if most people feel that they are getting worse at the same time. Short-term, poor decision-making now can do long-term damage to ordinary people, businesses and the Norwegian economy, but also to our ability to provide for others in the long term. And that's why the Right warns against spending more money than necessary in this situation, because good intentions are not enough if the long-term result means worse conditions for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3879	The attack on Ukraine represents the beginning of a new era in Europe and a permanent change in our security environment. We must take on board the security policy dimension linked to Russia's actions. I would like to make some clarifications on progress, assessment and action in defence matters. It is very important that Norwegian defence capabilities and national preparedness are strengthened. The Government has set up a Defence Commission and a General Emergency Commission and has reinforced the efforts associated with complex threats. The operational capacity of defence has also been strengthened by a number of efforts in the defence sector in recent years. Nevertheless, it is now clear that we have to do more quickly. This proposition is a clear signal about this. Recently, the government presented a big-time report addressed in the Storting and setting out changes in direction, not least short- and medium-term priorities. The paper refers to immediate action along four main lines: strengthening the military's reaction and presence in the north, strengthening the ability to receive and interact with allies and Nordic partners, strengthening preparedness for crisis and war, and, above all, strengthening stamina. This includes, inter alia: increased training for the territorial structure and forces of the Home Guard, strengthening the defence’s ability to receive and support allied forces, mainly in the north, and increasing preparedness for crisis and war — including, and not least, the rapid acquisition of ammunition in different ammunition classes. The Communication provides guidance for the further development of Defence as a tool for maintaining adequate Norwegian freedom of action, control and predictability in our neighbourhoods. And the immediate measures are described either directly or indirectly in this and other issues that are being dealt with in the Storting. With regard to the operational capability and availability of the defence in the short term, the government has worked with Notifying. Article 10 for 2021 to 2022 has already taken important and necessary steps to strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities. What do you do with the measures described in this proposition? Strengthening the presence of the Defence in the north, more sailing with the Marinen and Coast Guard vessels in the northern regions. We upgrade the KV ‘Northcap’, which can participate in the NATO response forces. It's an accompaniment that's been performed in the exercise of Cold Response. We have more training and practice for Brigade Nord, and not least Finnmark national defense. We increase preparedness stocks and develop and facilitate the development of Bluefind shooting areas, which in turn increase the capacity of national and allied forces – concrete actions that increase preparedness for a difficult time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3895	There is war in Europe, and some of the issues here are increased appropriations for defence. For this reason, the Progress Party has a note that we refer to a document 8 in which we, among other things, refer to. suggests increasing the number of soldiers in the Home Office and increasing the number of days of practice. The reason I took the floor was the exchange of lines with the representative Nordby Lunde. She challenged the Progress Party on how we had managed to arrive at the assessment that this was wise to do to strengthen preparedness. Nordby Lunde said: ‘These are adult people in full-time jobs who are then taken out of their positions, which can be anything from the IT manager of a large Norwegian bank to those with a firm presence in critical infrastructure. So the proposals of the Progress Party can therefore weaken the preparedness we have in the civil and private sector by the fact that critical personnel actually have to meet in the field of Home Affairs. [[...]] I've been in Homeland for 20 years. I am proud to have been part of the Norwegian total defense, and I have participated in exercises while I have been a staging representative to ensure that the country can quickly secure installations in crisis situations. I think the consequences get much bigger if you don't practice it. I am proud that we in the government together with the Right got better equipment and more exercises in place, and I am proud that we are working to strengthen the Home Office. Home security is cheap, it's good, it's quick and effective protection. The unique advantage and property of the Home Protection Agency are among others: that it consists of completely ordinary people, in different situations of life and with different professional experience. Whether you're an electrician, a baker, a teacher or a staging representative, you're at risk of being called in to serve your country. It is important to see that they have that commitment to secure their community, and they have local belongings and local knowledge that will be gold worth in crisis situations. But right now, our soldiers are laughing in uniform in this room today and obviously believe that the job they're doing is not very important, and that it should be just manned by the unemployed. I hope that someone from the Right Defence Party can come up on this pulpit and either confirm or deny the claims from Nordby Lunde.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3911	I experience that the previous speaker reads the post from the representative Nordby Lunde in the worst possible way. There is no doubt that home security exercises and activities are important. There is no doubt that the Home Corps are a significant part of the total defence we have in Norway. At the same time, we need to be aware that personnel serving in Home Affairs can also have and have other societal critical functions. That's why it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, as you use to say. It could be that a greater protection might help to weaken parts of the total defense that we want to build up. That doesn't mean that someone's talking down anti-personnel or defense personnel, that means you're pointing out a reality. I would also like to point out that the debate that is being discussed here now is far past the position we have here for consideration, but it is not new in any way. It is the Heads of Defense, the Chiefs of Homeland and the Heads of Army who have highlighted these dilemmas and issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3918	I was unable to cheer myself up and took the floor when suddenly there was a debate about Home Affairs and the importance of it attached to the debate that was now. I have our operational area manager in Homeland, and I know what it's all about. People with very special functions and competences are not included in Home Security. There may be nurses or others with important functions in society, they don't end up in Homeland. They are assigned to other functions in society and have to function there if necessary. Home security is incredibly important in a defence, in all conflicts and all contexts. We see that in all conflicts, it's home security that actually stands against when the rest of the defense has a problem. It will also be important in Norway. It is also true that when you look at what the Homeland Protection system was a few years ago, it was built down quite strongly. Object protection, which has been an important part of Homeland Protection, sees that is perhaps now critical. I assume that both the Ministry of Defence and others are starting to look at taking back object fuses, because it is unlikely to be important when it comes to the total defense. Home security can do that job. So I think you should stop that debate on Homeland. Home security is extremely important, and they have very good days in the field, including people working in a bank, or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3931	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Case No. 11 and 12 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3962	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given an opportunity to reply to comments by members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3971	Then I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on what I think should be a neat attitude from Stortinget to deal with. To these different proposals from the Progress Party to reduce different fuel charges, there is a large and wide majority who reject the proposals. I would certainly like to stress that it is not because the majority do not see the challenges that higher fuel prices create for both individuals and businesses. It's obvious to everyone. At the same time, there are some important arguments that contradict the fact that one should start cutting a number of charges at that time. The first is to adjust fees mid-year based on rather uncertain price estimates for the future, a demanding exercise, and it is illustrated in particular by the fact that many of the most dramatic price estimates that existed at the time the proposals were delivered have proved to be unbeatable. Secondly, a number of taxes are proposed here, which are important environmental taxes. Both CO 2 taxes, which relate to climate policy, the user charges relating to particulate matter and local air pollution, etc. and reducing the fees temporarily or permanently, which I believe the proposers actually think, will have a very negative impact on Norwegian environmental policy. Nor is it possible to jump under the chair that reducing fees, including VAT, in the volume proposed here would lead to significant sample surface without it being outlined in the setting how it should be covered in that case. Then I remember that the revised national budget is just around the corner, and it will give an opportunity to take a holistic round on it both for the plenary and for the proposers. And finally, I would like to stress that using as many billions as are suggested here, to put the money in circulation in the economy, will definitely have consequences for inflation. And the price increase we're now seeing, which is already large, and which can be quite risky if he leads to interest rising even more than what's already reflected. It will create far greater problems for both people around the country and not least for businesses when it comes to their economy. So in sum, of course, the majority in the committee understand the challenges many face, and that they are demanding, but there are many important counter-arguments against implementing these proposals that are here leading at that time. Therefore, they are also rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e3991	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of I would also like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation and make some comments on the proposal itself. The Committee has decided to reject the proposal. First of all, I would like to say that I share the opinion of the proposers that the Russian invasion of Ukraine requires Norway to set up both economically and humanitarianally. The invasion of Ukraine has created the greatest humanitarian disaster in Europe since World War II. All European countries must assist in this situation, including Norway. The war in Europe affects us all, both economically, politically and in everyday life, and in troubled times of great uncertainty, safe governance of the country is important. We must safeguard our own security, and we must stand up for the victims of the war – at the same time, we must ensure that the economic differences and consequences of the war do not increase the differences between people in Norway. We've just debated Prop. 78 S for 2021-2022, with a total increase in appropriations of 14.4 billion. kr to cover financial measures resulting from the war in Ukraine. The attack on Ukraine has contributed to higher energy and commodity prices and shows how dependent Europe is on Russian gas. The war is also likely to prolong periods of higher energy prices and will also affect Norwegian electricity prices. Therefore, on 8 April, the Stortinget adopted an extension of the electricity support measures to households, non-governmental organisations and agriculture until March 2023. We are in a situation where several unforeseen situations have made it necessary to increase the use of money over the state budget. There is a demanding situation, and several extraordinary packages have been needed. It in itself increases the temperature of the Norwegian economy and leads us into a situation where we are closer to overheating the economy and a prolonged interest rate increase than in many years. Finally, I would also like to point out that it is important to reduce the use of oil money from today’s high level, and that we need to be cautious about introducing more broad and general measures in the future. It is not in anyone's interest that good measures, in total, lead to imbalances in the economy, with interest rate increases and a pay and price spiral, which will create major challenges for the private economy of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4006	During the pandemic, many businesses experienced the disappearance of customers and the income base as a result of infection prevention measures — more or less overnight. Many became unemployed, and it was absolutely necessary to implement comprehensive measures to ensure that other viable businesses got through the pandemic and that employees were properly cared for. It was in a situation where there was a significant decline in the economy and several were unemployed, temporarily and permanently. Stimulative measures were needed. Putin's cruel war in Ukraine has created great human suffering. At the same time, we see that it creates instability and uncertainty in world markets and a completely new security policy situation. This naturally also has consequences in Norway. The price of oil and gas has increased significantly, and there is increased pressure on prices of several other goods, including food and fuel. In addition, we have an exceptional situation in the electricity market, with exceptionally high prices, as we have previously treated with the compensation scheme in Stortinget. Unlike under the pandemic, the Norwegian economy is now characterised by inflationary pressures, increasing employment and low unemployment, and the Norwegian Bank is alerting rising interest rates. After many years of abnormally low interest rates and low inflation, this is a new situation and a challenge for the private economy of people. In today's situation, excessive use of money over the state budget can help to increase the pressure on the economy. What may initially appear to be good measures in isolation may, in the next round, contribute to a further increase in interest rates. 1 pst. increase in interest rates means NOK 30 000–40000 in increased costs for a normal family. The proposals put forward in the drafts of representatives are questions and proposals which naturally belong to the current work on the budgets. It is then possible to assess how this will affect the economy as a whole and what effects it can be expected to have on the financing of the expenditure on the State budget. However, the aim must be to enable people to live on their own income and to manage price fluctuations themselves. In this context, fiscal policy is also an important instrument. An average family has reduced the tax by approx. 16 000 kroner after eight years of bourgeois rule. It means what is left of your own income for the payment of expenses. For the Right, it is important to ensure stability and sound economic governance. In an economy with low unemployment rates and pressure on prices and interest rates, there will be no room for all good government budget measures. The consequence may be further interest rate increases and a deterioration in the private economy of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4023	Now I might be content to say that I'm going to end up with the last two posts, but that's not how we do it here, I understand, so I'm getting it done anyway! [[Laughter]] The debate we have had in this Chamber today underlines some of the tension and challenges we face today. While the activity is high, economic growth is strong, and unemployment is low, we know that many are struggling. They are concerned that the prices of electricity, fuel and groceries will continue to increase, so that they cannot pay their bills. In the last two years, we have had the opportunity to solve such challenges that have arisen for individuals and businesses related to the crises that have arisen, with extraordinary crisis packages. It has been both correct and important, for these action packages were adopted in a situation where the Norwegian economy stopped and just needed an expansionary fiscal policy to keep the wheels running through the crises. We did well. As we are all aware, the situation is now quite different. The medicine currently being prescribed is not more extraordinary action packages, but that we return to carrying out regular budgetary procedures twice a year. It's just that we're able to assess the overall impact of the measures we're adopting. It is only then that we can balance the consequences of tax reductions and targeted economic measures against containment and what the economy is able to cope with overall increases in money consumption. There have been several good contributions that describe what will happen if we do not resist the temptation to spend money on all the good purposes proposed in the two representative proposals. We then risk a stronger interest rate increase than the normalisation of the level of interest proposed by the Bank of Norway. Then we know who is hit hardest. They are the ones that already have the highest debt and the lowest income.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4034	The President recalls that it is allowed to refer to previous speakers and leave it alone! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4039	Last period, I was the head of the Education Committee and had many debates with the Workers' Party and the Center Party where it was about reducing the qualifications required to enter the teacher's school by going down from four requirements in mathematics. It has been passed on to them in the Hurdal platform, and it looks as if they have been able to lower the competence requirements of the Ministry of Finance, too, because we have now seen a lot of creative calculations and unusual use of statistics, highlighting only what strengthens one's own cause, rather than seeing the overall picture. We see that minus is going to be positive, and it's quite obvious that the Center Party is overestimating people's incomes and underestimating people's expenses. In 2022 we went into the biggest tax increases over 20 years, and so we've got a cocktail of increased prices of both electricity, fuel, food and interest. The Progress Party proposed strong measures in October that would have countered them. This would lead to lower costs for both families and businesses. For approx. A year ago, the price at the Hove gas station in Sandnes was 12,69 kroner for diesel and 13,69 kroner for petrol. Now the cost is over $20. High prices are not to govern detail here in this room, but we can influence high taxes and taxes. The Progress Party has today proposed to reduce charges in such a way that prices could be reduced by between 7 and 8 kroner and then reduced to the level they were a year ago. This is the policy we see has also been implemented in Sweden, where they have reduced fuel taxes. Here on the mountain, however, is the attitude that we should follow closely, we should follow the situation extremely closely, we should follow closely what we have to wait for. It works on the argument from the other batches here that they are more concerned about making sure that the treasury has revenues and fills them as much as possible, than being concerned about the cost of people and business. So while they're waiting for what they're going to do, we see that the account is getting smaller and smaller for people and businesses. I am addressing the proposals for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4052	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4057	I'll try to compete the drama around the roof of the Storting in the very best way, because Red is worried about the price crisis we're in. This is not a problem for all families in Norway. You've got $1 million. In income, it is annoying that petrol costs a lot, and that you might have to cut down on some things that are comfortable and nice in life. If you have lower income, it is a big problem if it takes one or two months. If it lasts for many months, it may be a serious problem. This price crisis comes after a long period of growing differences in our society. In the last 10 years, the lowest half of the distribution of income has had a much lower wage growth than the highest share of the distribution of income. In fact, those with the lowest income have had the lowest wage growth, and those with the highest income have had the highest wage growth. It has also been reinforced by an unsocial tax policy of the civil government. Therefore, Red is concerned when the prices of the necessary goods increase. It is important to stress that these are not prices for luxury goods that you can easily adjust down, these are prices for goods that everyone needs, and that there is also a sort of minimum for what you need to use. For example: a lone parent or a single person, you also need to heat up the house to some extent even if you are not many employees in that family. Therefore, Red proposed this as an urgent measure in March. It was dismayed that it was to be dealt with urgently. Then the government presented its crisis package to Ukraine and to the extent that power support soon afterwards, where nothing was taken into account about this general price crisis. I think it's unnatural to set the limit there that the part of the crisis that affects people in Norway should not be looked at when discussing the crisis in Stortinget. I have repeatedly challenged the Council of State on what is planned to do in this field, and I have so far understood that it might come. That is why the proposal I am going back to here for consideration today, to ask the government to come back to the Storting with measures against high price growth. What Red suggests is one way to do it, but there's obviously many other ways to do it that we could have discussed. I fully agree that we cannot just walk on the throttle and thus contribute to faster interest rates than is already expected, but it is not the single mother, the minimum pensioner or some of the other families who are struggling to pay the bills, who are going to bear the cost of misguided energy policies and that war has broken out in Europe. I believe there are many other ways to lower the activity pressure in the Norwegian economy. Norway’s Bank itself points to the high level of oil investment as one of the main reasons for adjusting the interest rate path. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4074	The representative Marie Snee Martinussen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4080	Norwegian families and Norwegian households are among the families in Europe with the highest debt. So when we're going to discuss economic policy and the different approaches we're doing, we also have to take on the fact that there are many families that are vulnerable to interest rate increases that are more than a return to normal. In 2020, the Bank of Norway strongly lowered its interest rate to keep the wheels running, and it has always been in the cards to return to normal. But what we know is that if we do the wrong thing about the activity we now have in the Norwegian economy, interest rates go a little bit higher than what's normal. It is powerfully affecting those families that have a lot of debt. If you, for example, takes a family that has an estimated 5 million. kr in debt, which is not abnormal at all in a city like Oslo, it's clear that if you get 0.5 pst. or 1 pst. more in interest rate increases than back to normal, becomes the large amount of that family. We must take that into account when discussing economic policy, because we must see those who are most vulnerable. I know there's been a little discussion about the calculation that I talked about in the questionnaire a week ago. But the main point in that calculation was just that the biggest cost driver, even when it comes to normalization, is the interest rate for very many families. We can't close our eyes to that. What's the point for us who sit either in government or on the Grand Council is to create security for people, and a too rapid increase in interest rates creates the opposite of security: it creates insecurity. For the past six months, we've had three major crises. We've had an extra round on the corona, which was rough for many. We've had a commodity crisis that we're still in, and we have the terrible war we're witnessing. But even with the three major crises it seems, with the pay balance we now have – because we have such a well-organised working life with good trade unions and skilled employers – that we are able to achieve real wage growth. There is no obvious need to be able to achieve real wage growth now, because there is still a lot of uncertainty about this year, but that is what is in the agreement between employees and employers: real wage growth this year, which is perhaps one of the most demanding years. That's what we have to rule for, to be able to get real pay growth and contribute to it, but it's the parties that are the main key. So I mean, when we see this year, they're the most demanding and tough ones for, those who have high debts. In that case, we must not make new steps to strengthen their development, except that we must, of course, return to more normalised interest rates – as the Bank of Norway has announced – over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4098	The council also took up its calculation in the article. It's not just us in this room who have criticized and asked questions about the calculation. We also see that there are articles on TV 2, the Evening Post and the VG where more economists ask questions about the calculation. I have a very short and simple question. That's: is there anyone outside the Ministry of Finance who is familiar with the math, and who benefits from the content?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4105	So let's take one of the elements of this equation, which is what I've raised the most. It's the interest rate that, with the announced interest rate rate rate that Norway's Bank has, it's going to rise by half a percentage point on average for this year. Of course, people recognize themselves in it. They also note when paying interest that there is predictability in it. These are the analyses that Norway’s Bank has taken on board. In terms of wage growth, it's the paycheck that says it's going to be 3.7 pst. – it is the front-stage model, a model that the Progress Party often dissociates, at least, the well-organised Norwegian working life, because in Norway we have good trade unions. That's 3.7 pst. Which then makes you get to that number of NOK 37 000. Then it is also important that when you look at the insurance scheme for electricity, it has caused the huge price increase in electricity to be damped heavily for Norwegian households. Of course, Roy Steffensen will recognize that when he looks at his own power bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4114	Then I assume that the Minister of Finance believes that ordinary people are the ones who have 1 million. NOK in net wages and salaries, and they receive NOK 37 000. In reply to the Committee, the Minister of Finance also writes that one of the arguments for not taking any action now is that Norwegian economy is doing well, and that people on average, households on average, have saved $100,000 over the last two years. At the same time, there are statistics that show that there are more people who are now applying for bail-out on loans, people who have lost their jobs, people who have lost their wages, and we get a race of debt collection requirements in groups that have not had debt collection requirements before, because of high bills. Hasn't the Council taken into account the statistics I mention here? Has he just looked at the numbers that show that right-wing voters have saved a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4123	I wonder if the representative Steffensen heard what he said himself. He said that there are many people who have started to apply for a deferral and exemption on loans. That's exactly what I'm worried about. That's why I'm raising the challenge with interest all the way, because there's a lot of people who are vulnerable, especially those who have high debts, they're the ones who are the most vulnerable. That's why it's so incredibly important when we discuss the different elements that we see the group that's most vulnerable. There are many families with a high debt burden that can get a tough everyday if you don't run economic policy well. The group that comes out best is all the new people who come into work. The estimates that I used now are that over 70,000 new people are going to work this year. It's an amazing wealth growth for those families where maybe one, or both, gets to work. One of the most important things we do in economic policy is to ensure that every day we can now set a new record in the number of Norwegians going to work. That's the numbers we have right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4130	I thought I'd take this on average, because it's often useful when you're looking at things, but my claim is that in a society of great economic and geographical differences, it can be a little useless to look at. Real wage growth is just an average, it's a purely statistical concept used in wage negotiations, and it's important in itself. The term obviously does not cover the fact that someone lives far away from work and even further away from a closed court, or has even longer access to hospitals and thus greater fuel costs. Some people have fewer employees in their family, and not least we know that not everyone gets the front-line framework, if you're not in a tariff or if you're not in a generalized sector. So I wonder if the Council of State agrees that the average is not always the goal of how to deal with the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4135	It's always the problem of the big numbers, and if you get blind to it, you can forget to see how the individuals are affected. In the previous answer, to the Progress Party, it was about one of the groups I'm particularly concerned about, and there are high-debt families, because they can be quite hard hit and get real challenges if the interest burden goes up more than what the Norwegian Bank has warned. It is our responsibility, of course, to take it upon ourselves. There's a lot of things you could have raised in this calculation. It is clear that it has been important for the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to provide tax cuts. For example, someone who makes $600,000, almost $2500 in tax cuts. If there's two in the family who do that, there's almost $5,000 in tax cuts. If you have kindergarten children, you get a cheaper price for kindergarten, if you have children in SFO, you get it too. So there'll be an incredible number of different stories. But in general, it's a powerful force for our country that the economy is going well, and that we have a well-organized working life that makes us get real wage growth for the wide range.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4144	We share the concerns of those families that have a high debt. I have to stress that the reason that this is the case in Norway is that we have a housing market that absolutely does not work, and we could probably talk about housing policy for a long time. What I thought I'd pick up is the government's obvious concern that interest rates should rise, which I share. But then I wonder if someone has told the government that it is a problem that the state spends money if the state also collects money, or that it is a problem that the state spends money on something if you also cut something else – that is, that it is the sum of the economic activity that is the problem, and that then you can take action to target those who are in vulnerable economic situations, without increasing the part of the economy that creates inflationary pressures today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4151	The centre party and the Labour Party made some very clear priorities, so there were some groups like this. received more taxes and lost purchasing power this year compared to last year. It's those who have high incomes, they get it. While in a family there maybe one makes $400,000, and the other makes $600,000, they're trade-unioned and maybe one commuter -- they get pretty big tax cuts because we thought it was the right priority. That is what politics is all about. For the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, it has been possible to prioritise people with ordinary means of income as a primary priority. We have taken a grip and increased the trade union deduction, which I have noticed many times that especially the Progress Party and the Right have talked a little easy about. But why have we done that? It is because we believe that some of the strengths in Norway are that many are organized and that it provides security. Our paychecks have also shown how important it is that we have a good and well-organised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4162	To cut fuel taxes – what kind of money is there a talk about cutting fuel taxes? So there's going to be less revenue for the Finance Minister Vedum, who's already so big that he's going to tear up. There will be even more money, but money will not be used until the government uses the money – and the chance of it is minimal. Minister of Finance Vedum has no intention of spending money – we see that in many areas. So what kind of a use of money is it really talking about? Is it true that if one reduces the fuel charges so that petrol and diesel costs 15–16 kroner, then there will be hamstering? Is it the case that the transport industry will use more fuel than what it uses in its operations around Norway? No, no, no. Or take agriculture: Do people in agriculture want to run much more tractors or machines because the fuel is getting cheaper? No, they have to use the tractor anyway in the spring. I thought the Workers' Party-Center Party government was aware of that. In these days, Minister of Finance Vedum has received a claim from the agricultural industry of NOK 11 567 000 000 in the agricultural sector. Is it because it's so high money usage? They have been required because the costs of the agricultural industry, the transport industry and in all other areas are high due to high fuel prices. This is why the transport industry and construction industries in Norway are kneeling – costs have gone to heaven. What kind of money is this about? Money usage does not happen until the government uses the money they lose in taxes. Then it'll be money. But that's not going to happen. So what kind of a use of money is it really a talking about? It is cut in taxes and less revenue to the State. We have a pile of money running over – it was 277 billion. kr in revenue from oil and gas, and we're worth well over 1000 billion. kr. No more money is needed. So what kind of a use of money is this about? One cuts taxes on transport, construction, agriculture and all other industries — this is what this is all about. Finally, I would like to ask a question: is it likely that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, as Minister of Finance, has not intended to give a penny to the agricultural industry because it is money use? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4177	The population and parts of industry, such as coastal fishermen, contractors, carriers and several other companies, are struggling. There have been persistent extreme prices of electricity, fuel, food, and there have been increasing prices in many other fields. Some parts of the business are doing well. The economy in general is going well, but there are still major challenges in several different segments. Then we hear all the time from the finance minister and the rest of the government that the interest-rate ghost is wondering, and that's absolutely right. We're not going to spend more money than the economy can bear, we're not going to overheat the economy. But this representative proposal is not about spending more money; it is about refraining from taking so much money. It provides for people to retain more of their income and for business to retain more of their money to run stores and business development and to have a healthy operation that organises and employs a large number of people. Several of the industries that are now really affected are low-margin industries. We see that in the transport industry and coastal fishing in the South, the state and other actors are now taking losses and subsidising, because they have such a high cost of fuel alone that they pay to do work. It's a big challenge, it's very negative, and it's something the state could do with it. Price pressure in the economy and fear of one percentage point of interest rate increase or more strongly affecting both business and people most. That's why it's so nice that the government, with Vedum and Støre at the head, doesn't take the steps that could reduce this challenge and that could reduce the price pressure in the economy. It could have been normalising electricity prices by taking measures that we have asked to limit and regulate the export of power, but not least by accepting this proposal, which is about refraining from taking income. We've seen fuel prices at Svalbard, which is now half of what we see in southern parts of the country, or throughout the country outside Svalbard. And that's a normal situation that was a couple of years ago. A few years ago – before the Centerparte came into government – 17 kroner per litre was something that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum complained about. Now 27 dollars per litre is acceptable. It's extreme prices, this is extremely destructive to business and the population. EU countries have been able to introduce measures, and Norway must also be able to introduce measures. Norway is in a special position because we have a very strong economy. We can afford and afford to refrain from charging these fees and from reducing the price pressure in the economy. Vote for the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4188	One thing is at least safe, and that is that the Minister of Finance has to get a new calculator. Either it's hiccups or it's kind of rock solid with the calculator that he's using. No ordinary people out there understand anything in terms of what you're left with in your wallet, as the situation is now. I hear a lot of stories from ordinary people and business, saying that they're about to drive out into the ditch, or – perhaps even worse – that they're going into the creditors' claws because they can't pay their bills, whether it's electricity, fuel or other things. I hear that the Council of State, who from being in a party that said it was impractical to sit in a government if the fuel price was over 20 kroner, has suddenly turned around and talks about completely different things, such as. interest rate. Yes, interest rate is a challenge, but it's about the grips you take and how you take them. In this way, reducing charges will help to reduce cost growth, thus helping to reduce the risk of interest rate increase, etc. But it's about the will to take ordinary people seriously, as this government has been talking about. They definitely don't do that now. I can take an example: an enterprise in Kragerø that operates within the transport industry. They use 1 million liters of diesel a year. With a higher fuel price of 5 kroner, it's going to be 5 million. kr per year. In addition, there is a pay bill that costs approx. One million. NOK extra for the company, and electricity costs that also means a lot of money. Many provide services to the public, and there are people with whom it is difficult to negotiate in order to compensate for increased expenditure that has no means of doing anything about it, it is often the government and the state. It's a challenge that many people face. It is particularly important to listen to the representatives who have spoken against this proposal by the Progress Party. The whole argument goes on interest, but this is about that you can grab hold of if you want. The state floods with money – it flows in like never before. But there are ordinary people who get the challenge and who have to take the bill. Now there are many common people with a bad economy, for whom the Progress Party is concerned, and for whom we are concerned, who get the big challenges. But the important thing is that the Council of State replaces the calculator and goes out and hits people – not in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4203	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4222	Nature is our main renewable carbon-based resource, and it must be used and managed in the most efficient and prudent way possible. That is why the bioeconomy must be very central to a green shift. The bioeconomy is realised by enabling technologies such as genetic engineering. New methods of re-editing have been identified as enabling technologies for climate adaptation and sustainable transformation of the world's food systems, including: by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and the Scientific Advisors to the United Nations Food Systems Summit. The EU Commission believes that re-editing can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Green Deal Farm to Fork, the biodiversity strategies and the UN's sustainability objectives, and has therefore announced changes in the legislation on genetic engineering to facilitate green migration and increased food security. There is legislation that also applies in Norway. The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe, specifically states on food and bioeconomy that there is a need to enable major advances in biotechnology to be re-edited so that they can contribute to meeting the major societal challenges in a safe and sustainable way. Norway has a unique starting point for exploiting the potential of CRISPR and other genetic technologies in the bio-industries. We have ambitious Norwegian research environments and companies that want to invest in re-editing and other pioneering biotechnologies in the bioeconomy both nationally and internationally, for example. in plant and animal breeding, circular economy and the development of new protein sources for food and feed. Unfortunately, however, the framework conditions are too poor for such a commitment. Among other things, there is too little access to risk capital to ensure that good ideas are scaled up into commercial products, and there is too little public investment in necessary infrastructure and competence building. Lack of offensive investment in research and innovation in genetic engineering in Norway will both weaken Norwegian competitiveness in bioeconomy and make it more difficult to achieve climate and sustainability goals in food production and natural management. In addition, an out-of-date regulatory framework and an unhealthy and low-knowledge societal debate make it risky for businesses to bet. We politicians should take the lead in developing a constructive, knowledge-based and forward-looking policy on technology with great potential for change. The fact that the genetic engineering committee is working on a NOU is no reason to wait to address this issue here in Norway. Then technology and policy will be defined on other premises. Due to delays, the NOU shall not be published until December, shortly before the EU presents a completely new code for genetically modified plants. The window to influence the EU process is now, not after Christmas. However, as Norwegian decision-makers do not dare to express anything about genetic engineering and legislation until the NOU is completed, Norway has fully sidelined itself. It is very unfortunate, all the time when EU genetic engineering legislation is part of the EEA Agreement and will therefore apply to Norway. It is also extra unfortunate because concrete proposals for new regulation discussed in the genetic engineering committee are, in fact, EU demand. Norway therefore has a golden opportunity to set the course against the design of a more forward-looking regulatory framework and a policy that facilitates technological development that strengthens the Norwegian values of safe, sustainable, socially beneficial and ethically sound food. Unfortunately, we are now wasting this opportunity, as the window to influence the EU's laws is about to close while we are still completely tazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4241	I would like to start by stressing that the issue raised here by the representative of Skkelstad concerns the responsibility of several government councils, including the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, the Minister for Health and Care, the Minister for Fisheries and Aquaculture and my own department. In the food sector, responsibility for GMOs is shared between the environmental management and food management. The environmental management is responsible for living GMOs for all uses that are not carried out in laboratories. Food management is responsible for GMOs that have been processed in such a way that they are not reproducible, as well as labelling requirements, cultivation rules and the authorisation of seeds. I fully agree with the representative that genetic engineering including re-editing can play an important role in the green shift, and not least in a sustainable use of nature. The genes of both plants, animals and micro-organisms can be edited and the change may correspond to that of traditional breeding. Since re-editing is a simple and inexpensive technology, it can mean democratisation, because it is not limited to large multinational companies but is also available to developing countries and small businesses. There is now a lot of good research going on in re-editing — internationally, but also in Norway. One example is Graminor, who is involved in the development of Norwegian plant varieties. Graminors participate, inter alia: in a research project where the main objective is to build knowledge of re-editing. This is done by researching the possibilities of making Norwegian potatoes resistant to, among other things. dry Roe. If one succeeds here, it may mean less yield loss and significantly less need for spraying of fields. At the same time, skills include: on potential challenges and risks related to technology. This research project involves several agricultural actors, both academic trade unions, such as NMBU, and several Norwegian breeding organisations, such as Geno, Norsvin and AquaGen, who are involved in this competence building project and this innovation. Together with other production methods, re-editing is included in the work of the European Commission on sustainable food systems, to which the representative also referred. However, although future re-editing can contribute to useful new properties, breeding targets must also exploit the potential of the existing genetic base, as we have tradition of in Norway. The use of germinal GMOs must be authorised under the gene technology law. To be authorised under this Act, it is required that the GMO does not pose an environmental or health hazard. Furthermore, significant emphasis shall be placed on whether the GMO has social benefits and is suitable for promoting sustainable development. There is also an emphasis on ethics. This is specifically assessed in individual cases. It is important that technology is used properly and also to avoid the undesirable spread of the GMO in nature, poisoning or disease. The GMO may also coerce or eradicate other species. It may also spread genetic material with undesirable properties such as: resistance to pesticides or insect infestation. The result can be an imbalance in nature, and it's important to have with us. There has been little demand for GMOs in Norway. It is a restrictive position in the agricultural industry, among consumers and in the food industry. However, new studies now suggest that there are more positive attitudes to generic products that promote social benefits and sustainability, or because it is difficult to obtain products that are not genetically modified. The Biotechnology Council came in 2018 with a recommendation on the decoration of the Code for Re-Edition and that a NOU should be set up to consider further proposals for amendments. As the representative is aware, a public body has been set up to address the issue of genetic technology, emerging techniques and regulation of genetically modified organisms. I look forward to having that work presented and then consider any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4264	There is no doubt that this, of course, is coverage for several departments, but it is quite natural that the Minister of Agriculture and Food responds to it. Sustainability and climate adaptation are in the wind as never before – Europe is moving forward in this field – and some will have major consequences for Norway if we do not. The taxonomy of the EU, the UN's sustainability objectives and the biodiversity strategies will affect the Nordics, Norwegian businesses and authorities on a scale we have rarely seen. Is the Council of State on the road aware of the speed with which this will take place? I'm not quite sure what the Council of State intends to do with the bioeconomy. Norwegian authorities should contribute more actively to the EU in the process of designing a new regulatory framework, based on relevant points of discussion from the genetic engineering committee, even if the NOU is not ready. Norway is affected by everything happening in the EU, and we have a Council of State and a government that does not exactly call for more international cooperation. It should perhaps be in everyone's interest that the Norwegian authorities at the political and employment level are actively working towards the EU in order to ensure that the rules that will actually apply will also play with us, with the policy we want to pursue, and that we can cope with this in time. I understand that the Council of State does not want to go very heavily into issues of genetic engineering and bioeconomy, perhaps because one has no strong ambitions in the field. But I still have one specific to the council, which I hope she takes the time to answer. Because I'm busy grabbing, and we're looking at tools we can use. I wonder if the Council of State considers that innovation with genetic engineering, one of the most important enabling tools for the bioeconomy, can be supported through Bionova, if one can do so in relation to the fund's objectives. It might be interesting to hear some thoughts around it. At the same time, I miss this fact that genetic engineering will provide great opportunities for short-range protein – not least in agriculture, but also in aquaculture – which could provide a better balance. That's good what Graminor is doing, but I think we now have to expand the horizon, for example. by focusing more on short-range protein, which will also benefit the Third World.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4277	It is interesting to hear that the Left supports the government's investment in Bionova. We are now developing what Bionova is going to be, and that is exactly what agriculture has missed from those who ruled the country a year ago — the means to make important changes in different areas also in this field. So I believe that the work on the investigation that is under way will contribute to a good knowledge base to assess whether genetically modified organisms should be regulated in a less stringent way than traditional GMOs. And then it's important to bear in mind that the GMO legislation was developed 30 years ago and before the experience of practical use. There is no doubt that there is a great need to update the knowledge base. The government is busy getting on the table before considering any changes. As the representative is well aware, the investigation is well under way and must be completed by 1 December 2022. As I mentioned earlier, the GMO code was developed 30 years ago, long before re-editing was an alternative. However, in the context of re-editing, knowledge needs to be gathered and re-assessed on all aspects of both challenges and opportunities in this area. It is important that we continue to have good legislation on GMOs. More attention must then be paid. Genetic technologies must be used in a sound manner, so as to avoid the spread of undesirable GMOs in nature, poisoning or disease, because they can challenge, reduce and in worst cases eradicate other species, or that they can further spread genetic material with undesirable properties that create natural imbalances. Then I would like to mention that there is active research in Norway in re-editing. The government works across several departments and prioritises resources for research and development, including in sustainable agriculture and not least aquaculture. We also follow the process in the EU closely. Then I would like to say that the investigation will provide a solid basis for assessing any changes to the law, and I can assure the representative that even if there is a NOU work, the government is not passive and will not be able to wipe out inch eights in this case. This is an exciting field, within which there are opportunities, but not least we need to take into account the challenges that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4290	Normally, a good one is to thank you for the debate, but I would like to thank you for the dialogue in this context. I agree that this is about acquiring a knowledge base. There can be no doubt about that. Unlike the Council of State – I hope I’m a little wrong, maybe I’m a little more impatient – I think it’s important, what’s done on Graminor, it’s important, what we’re in many ways at the top of the world, within genes and livestock farming, but now it’s important to look at what’s the next big leap. The next major leap must take place within what is least sustainable in both agriculture and agriculture, and that is the feed chain in terms of where to get protein. Then I think it's absolutely necessary to actually be first in the shoes when it comes to having the opportunity to get more short-range protein, which is also sustainable. For today we are picking up a lot of the protein from many other parts of the world, which is not particularly sustainable, both within salmon farming and in feed in the form of power feed for domestic animals. That's why this is urgent. That's why, hopefully, the Council of States is also a little bit more impatient, but it's absolutely necessary that we now manage to actually be at the forefront of this. This is about the sustainability and the responsibility we have for a world that is not in Europe, where we pick up a lot of our protein. That's why this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4301	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Skkelstad, for a good dialogue, because there is no doubt that the issue raised by the representative is important and will be important in the future. That is precisely why I look forward to the report on which the representative's party started work. It will also provide us with a basis for assessing changes. It is also important for me to say that the GMO Code has worked well until now, and the genetic engineering law has been drawn up in international context as a good example of a law that ensures more concerns, such as ethics, sustainability and social benefits. The EU has also shown interest in this law and now assesses its elements in its legislation, in particular on sustainability, which is assessed in the context of the EU’s “Farm to Fork” strategy. We can actually say that Norway is a leading country here. There is no doubt that genetic diversity represents many opportunities to adapt plant production to different growing conditions, to grow robust and healthy livestock and to make the forest more rusty in the face of climate change. Long-term and broad breeding approaches have become an international export success for Norway, and cereals and meat from conservation varieties and breeds constitute new economic opportunities in niche production. So, in the case of any re-editing in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture, it is important to also limit the possible genetic alignment of productions, so that it does not go at the expense of genetic diversity management. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is no doubt that there is a lot of good and exciting happening in the area. It will be important in this further work to take care of all the considerations, such as sustainability, ethics and not least social benefits, which hopefully we will get more answers when the report is delivered. So I hope this isn't the last time I and the representative are discussing an important topic of opportunity, where we also need to be aware of the challenges it brings us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-03.ana.ud522e4314	The President is pretty sure there will be several occasions. The debate on substance is closed. 13 has been completed, so the current map has been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
