ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e95	Honourable co-representatives! The former grower Johan Syrstad passed away on December 16, 2019. He met for the first time at Stortinget as a permanent meeting for Per Borten in March 1968, when Einar Moxnes moved up and became Minister of Fisheries. Then he was again firm meeting when the Korval government collapsed, and Einar Moxnes was Minister of Agriculture. At the elections in 1977 he was elected to the Stortinget on his own keel, and he was sitting for two periods, until 1985. Then he sat first in the church and teaching committee and then in the agricultural committee, where he was next. However, the Storting Authority was only part of a collective political life in municipal policy, county policy and national policy, as it often is. The working day of the Center Party started seriously when he entered the Municipal Council of Meldal in 1955. After two periods he entered the Presidency, where he sat for three periods. In 1960 he was a tenant, or president, as it was then called, in the South-Trundelag Centerpartie. The milk producer Johan Syrstad also worked for many years in the agricultural sector, both in the Landelag and in the cooperative, where the agricultural cooperative had especially enjoyed his work. He plays an important and, in part, a leading role in both Trøndelag milkesentral, the Norwegian Dairy Producers' Association and Norske Meieriers Salgssentral, NMS. He was the first leader of the NMS who was not from Austland. But the work capacity also increased. For Johan Syrstad was also active in Christian work. For four decades he was active in the Sock Council in Meldal, even with some interruptions in between. He was also a central authority of trust in the Mission Company in Trondelag. The community had benefited from him in many other ways as well. He put down a lot of effort in the local savings bank, and he writes local historical writings. And at an age when most people retire, he begins a ten-year career as president of A/S Meldal Somfunnshus. At his stretch, it was emphasized from many quarters that Johan Syrstad was a community builder, and it was given great importance that he was both pleasant, liberal and raw. He never sought attention for his own part and did well to work with political persuasion without creating support in the Oslo editorials. One should nevertheless think that Syrstad once, in connection with the Stortinget's handling of the so-called double decision, was hurriedly fled home across the Atlantic to save the Willoch government from defeat, and thus stopped a possible government change in Norway. So in meeting the political drama Johan Syrstad saw to it that he could prevent a crisis. It tells a lot about both the man and the politician. It's an honor to shine peace over Johan Syrstad's good memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e116	The representative of Mani Hussaini shall apply for parental leave from 2 May to 17 June. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Tobias Hangaard Linge, will be called to meet in Stortinget from 3 May to 17 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e136	Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e154	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e161	First, thank you to the Committee for constructive and good cooperation on the new law on lawyers. If it didn't go so very fast, it went at least as on rails. The new Law of Law provides for the first time for lawyers, the law-enforcement audience and other legal actors to regulate the activities of lawyers collectively and uniformly. The law is a modern and clear industry law, providing an important framework to ensure trust in lawyers, reputation in the industry and the independence of lawyers. The legislation is more accessible to both the actors themselves and the law-enforcement audience. And that's a clear improvement, compared to today's regulation. In addition to bringing together current rules, the Law of Law will lead to a number of important changes. Some of the main changes are the abolition of the legal monopoly, i.e. the opening up of the legal advice to anyone. The legal title will be protected. Basic principles and requirements for lawyers, such as the requirement of independence, are legalised. The requirement is introduced that the owners and persons in the management of lawyers' undertakings must be of good repute without authorisation and must not be regarded as unfit. A separate provision is made for the professional secrecy of lawyers and a new supervisory and disciplinary system is established. It will mean a simpler organization compared to today. In addition to making the legislation more accessible, an important objective of the law is to ensure the law-enforcement public access to fairer legal services. The abolition of the legal monopoly is an important instrument in this way. In addition, a joint committee is behind a regulatory home in Section 19 of the Law on Lawyers, to continue access to insurance undertakings offering legal expenses insurance. It implies that business undertakings continue to be given the opportunity to provide legal assistance as legal expenses insurance. For most people with normal income, legal assistance through insurance is the only way to afford qualified legal assistance. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is united behind this proposal. The objective of keeping the costs of the lawyer down is also reflected in the fact that, in cases where a lawyer has claimed too high a salary, the lawyer has the competence to establish a reasonable and necessary salary. But it is important to stress that the freedom of contract between client and lawyer is still to apply in principle, as in all other businesses in society. Lawyers and clients should continue to be able to decide for themselves and agree on what fees should be, within the limits of the contract law § 36. A general consideration in the Law of Lawyers is the need to ensure the independence of lawyers. Therefore, we are pleased that it is now being codified in a separate provision. The independence of lawyers is essential to maintain trust in lawyers and to prevent conflicts of interest. My impression is that the independence of lawyers is something lawyers themselves are very conscious and concerned about. I trust that lawyers will assess their own independence in a conscientious manner. This also applies in cases where lawyers combine legal activities with the exercise of administrative functions. That is why it is good that the majority of the committee agrees to continue today’s legal status – for lawyers often have experience and skills that make lawyers attractive as members of the board, and it is very common for lawyers to take on such assignments. There may be a board of directors in both limited and non-profit institutions serving households. The initial proposal contained in the proposal could lead to the loss of the ability of firms to avail themselves of this competence, even in cases where it is unthinkable, against the requirement of the independence of lawyers. The right would have liked us to go further in liberalizing the law market through an investigation of external ownership. This could facilitate access to capital for the industry and contribute to more innovation. Unfortunately, it is not a majority. Even if the Stortinge adopts the Law of Law today, there remains a comprehensive regulatory work before the law can come into force. Good transitional arrangements are important for persons and businesses affected by the changes. This law is not an intervention, but a big change for the industry. We will follow closely to ensure that this law can come into force quickly and smoothly. It deserves both the law firm and those who depend on it. We wish the Minister of Justice every success in the important work. I'm taking up the suggestions that the right hand side is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e182	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e187	Like the rapporteur, I would like to thank him for a good and constructive cooperation that has led to a broad majority on important issues. Lawyers have a very central place in our legal system and are essential for people to respect their rights in a number of areas. Lawyers depend on trust, both in individual clients and in society in general. It is important for this trust that we have a well-functioning and up-to-date legislation for lawyers. Today’s legislative proposals aim to make a fragmented and unbridled regulatory framework more easily accessible to the law-enforcement public. An important point for the Centre Party and the Workers' Party has just been to ensure the right-wing audience, among other things. through access to more reasonable legal services. One element in which the abolition of the monopoly of the judiciary should make it easier for persons other than lawyers — who, by virtue of their education, position or work experience, have good prospects for providing qualified legal advice — to have the opportunity to do so. However, this requires a good frame-up, which we believe, among other things. a more stringent requirement for the use of the title contributed by the lawyer. Legal protection of the legal title has long been a desire of the Legal Association, and the Central Party and the Labour Party share the view that the professional title of the lawyer creates high-level expectations of the legal competence of the legal audience, and considers that this expectation is now better met by the fact that only persons with a legal or legal degree can use the title. That lack of legal competence can lead to poor legal advice and assessment is evident, which in worst cases may have major and serious consequences for individuals. In our view, this will strengthen legal certainty for individuals and make it easier to navigate more easily in what are good and bad providers of legal assistance. In addition, it is an essential element of legal certainty that people have access to reasonable legal services and legal assistance in order to respect their rights and to pursue claims in the judiciary. Today's system has enabled several insurance companies to offer legal aid as legal expenses insurance, and many today have such an option through their insurance scheme. The bill was initially designed in such a way that this would have been a disproportionately expensive solution for very many people, and it was linked to the requirement of the independence of lawyers, which in itself is an important principle. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party are pleased that it has been possible to bring together an entire committee on proposals that both take care of people and concern for the independence of lawyers. A guiding principle in our country of law is that everyone should be able to seek a lawyer in confidence that the information provided is kept confidential and is not to be attributed to unauthorised persons. The professional secrecy of lawyers is therefore a fundamental ground of legal certainty. The proposal in this area in this case essentially implies the continuation of today's legislation. However, it is important for the Centre Party and the Workers' Party to stress that the professional secrecy of lawyers has several sides, and this came in particular. clearly in the course of the oral hearing carried out by the Committee in January. In this context, several organisations pointed out that the professional secrecy of lawyers can address several challenges in combating international tax evasion, which is a growing international problem. The Central Party and the Workers' Party agree that a system of aggressive tax planning is difficult to reconcile with the Norwegian model, and I would like to show that the government of the Hurdal platform has announced that the fight against tax evasion should be intensified. An assessment of the scope of the professional secrecy of lawyers will, as we see it, naturally be part of such work. However, there is reason to stress that the involvement of lawyers in tax evasion is not subject to professional secrecy and is punishable by the applicable law. Nevertheless, it is a subject that has not been addressed in this matter and that deserves careful treatment and should be addressed through legal work related to the specific tax legislation in the further follow-up. The protection of the right of individuals to have a confidential client relationship with a lawyer is in itself an important and supporting element in our country of law, and is based both in the Constitution and through the EMK. The Law of Law, which I have been a little concerned with, concerns important and fundamental rights and concerns both for society and for individuals. The Centre Party and the Labour Party are therefore pleased that it has been possible to land new law in a good way after a long and extensive work, both within the Committee and under two different governments, as the case-rapporteur pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e212	Today, Stortinget adopts a new law of law. It has been called for and expressed the need from the industry itself for a long time, so it is very good that we now finally get this case to be dealt with and adopt a new law. I'm also very happy that there's a very joint committee at all, most of the points. It is a strength for the matter that the new law of law is widely enshrined in the Stortinget, and that there is therefore a great deal of agreement on the main features of the law. It serves us all. At the same time, like the others who have been on the floor today, I would like to say that we have had good cooperation in the committee towards the vote, and that it also serves the cause, and would also like to thank for good cooperation. Of course, the progress party would have liked to have gone a little further in terms of liberalisation and further increased competition in the law industry. Among other things, we have a proposal together with the Right to exercise external ownership. It is not natural that it enters the law in this round, but there is at least reason to consider it as a possible further development of the law in the future. At the same time, we are happy to have been able to care for most people as well as the law industry as such, and to ensure that you have a good, modern law that will serve the country to the most extent possible. At the same time, some changes were made to the original proposal that came from the government, in particular at one point: I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees that insurance companies will continue to be able to offer legal aid through legal aid insurance in the future. It is very important that it is continued, because it is also an advantage in terms of competition in the industry. It's important that we have a competition for the customers. If you want to keep prices down, you are also dependent on it, while, of course, we have to have freedom of agreement here, which naturally applies here as in all other areas, which were also dealt with by the rapporteur. Today we adopt a good law that Stortinget is very united behind. Then on some points there is reason to consider a further development of the law. But in general, the Progress Party is well pleased with the results and the majority that are being formed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e227	Like a number of other representatives, I would like to thank you for the good cooperation within the Committee. It has been over ten years since the work on a law of law started, and now it can finally be adopted. This is a law that is important to many and defines the fundamental role of lawyers in the rule of law. The Law of Law collects a fragmented and unbridled code into one comprehensive law. It clarifies the value of lawyers and strengthens essential framework conditions. The obligation of professional secrecy is regulated, independence strengthened, and the supervisory and disciplinary systems are simplified and streamlined. So today, the Storting gathers largely and essentially to put this law in place, and it's joyous. The monopoly of the judiciary is proposed to be repealed and it is proposed that a general right to provide legal assistance outside the courts should be introduced. The abolition of the monopoly of jurisdiction means that no supervision will be exercised over service providers who are not lawyers. The proposal takes the view that the applicant audience will continue to enjoy protection under the general rules on compensation and contract law. But more people are sceptical about whether that's enough. That is why we are critical of the abolition of the legal monopoly. The legal monopoly is justified by the need to ensure qualified legal assistance to the judicial public, and it could be unfortunate for consumers and difficult to inform themselves in a bundle of offers and to assess the quality of the services offered. Many also lack the prerequisite for assessing whether a advice given is a good legal advice or not. Today's system has worked well, and we don't really see a need to change it. Then in SV we are happy that the prohibition of external ownership is maintained, even though the Progress Party and the Right want this changed. The latter party has described the lawyer industry as a medieval pool, and to quote another Right-person: I might not use those words, but I believe that today's system ensures the independence of lawyers and creates confidence. Lawyers’ activities have become increasingly marked by economic and financial tax advice in recent decades. Only since 2000 has the number of lawyers in practice doubled in Norway, with business as the second largest user. With this turn around, the obligation of professional secrecy has also come to include tax advice, which is used by resource-intensive actors. This hinders access to information and monitoring in cases where the information needs of the authorities are high. This can facilitate tax evasion and contribute both to the confusion of the Norwegian tax base and to lower the level of fairness of the tax system. It can be shown that in February 2021 the OECD and the United Nations FACTI Panel presented their separate report on combating international tax evasion, recommending stricter requirements for the transparency of lawyers. Therefore, it is regrettable that the subject is not addressed in connection with this law. That is why, in this very context, we are promoting a proposal to seek an explicit exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy in tax legislation for tax advice and to submit a proposal in the context of expected proposals on disclosure obligations for tax advice. Now we get a law, and that's good. But now we have to keep working with those who stand on the barricades and do some of the important jobs for the state of law, and make sure they get what they deserve, for the job they do. This is not only about rules for an industry, but also about what conditions they have. Therefore, it is important that the law firm continues to work for a sustainable legal aid rate – an action we in SV support. The salaries must be raised, and aid and defence lawyers must have a right to negotiate their terms. We need to strengthen legal certainty in the districts by increasing travel training. We can do this if the government wants to. SV is ready to support proposals that contribute to addressing those challenges. Today we get the law in place, but there is a struggle to take the profession of lawyer seriously and give them the recognition they deserve. With this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e248	The representative Andreas Shelg Unneland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e253	I am also pleased that we are finally getting a law on lawyers and others providing legal assistance. Lawyers are key actors in justice and play an important role in ensuring that citizens can respect their rights. The rules governing the activities of lawyers and their enforcement are the basis for confidence in the lawyers and their reputation. In order to ensure this trust, it is important that we have a well-functioning law for lawyers. Today's law for lawyers is fragmented and inaccessible. There is a clear need to make the legislation more accessible to both lawyers and law-enforcement audiences. Changed social and technological developments have changed the way lawyers work and the functioning of the legal services market. The new Law of Law will meet these changes. The professional title of the lawyer creates an expectation from the legal audience about legal competence at a high level, and I am very pleased that the legal title is now being protected by law. The new Law of Law stipulates that only the person having a legal or a Master's degree in law may use the title. This will provide increased protection for consumers and recipients, and it will provide legal certainty to the public that persons using the title are entitled to hold certain professional qualifications. This will make it easier for consumers to inform themselves in the market with providers of legal assistance. I would like to express my concern that the legal monopoly is now also being abolished, and that there is a general freedom to provide legal assistance without trial. The legal monopoly is justified by the need to provide the judicial public with qualified legal assistance under safe and controlled conditions. The abolition of the monopoly of jurisdiction means that the supervision of non-lawyers will no longer be exercised. The abolition of the legal monopoly may be unfortunate for consumers, as it could be difficult for them to inform themselves about the flow of offers and to assess the quality of services offered. Many are also lacking a prerequisite for assessing whether a advice given is a good legal advice or not. I am pleased that the principle of the independence of lawyers is now being legislated. Independence is essential for the confidence that lawyers carry out their social mission in a good way. The provision that lawyers may not engage in any activity other than legal activity where this affects the independence of the lawyer and the association of instructions would support the principle of the independence of lawyers. I am pleased that general demands for loyalty, good law and professional competence are regulated in the law. These principles are important to ensure that the plaintiff has the necessary confidence in lawyers and their activities. Norway differs from other countries by the fact that there is no mandatory membership of a law association for lawyers. The Ministry has therefore since 1996 confirmed the Code of Law of the Association, so that the rules will apply to all lawyers in Norway, regardless of membership of the Association of Lawyers. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that, in the functioning of the judiciary, it cannot be such that the State can lay down ethical rules for lawyers. In addition to acting independently, lawyers must be guaranteed institutional independence. Independent lawyers are one of several prerequisites for the independence of the courts. In the same way as the Disciplinary Body of the Association of Advocates must be independent of the State, the establishment of the Rules of Procedure must also be independent of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e274	Will the representative address the proposal to the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e279	Yes, I would love to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e285	The representative Emma Georgina Lind has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e290	The government sees a great need for a separate, comprehensive law on lawyers and others providing legal assistance. The Law of Law stipulates that lawyers remain subject to extensive legal regulation and that strict supervision of the activities of lawyers should be exercised. The bill introduces a general freedom for everyone to provide legal assistance at the advisory stage. The aim is to facilitate the wider coverage of legal assistance needs both geographically and socially and to provide the population with access to simpler and more reasonable legal services. In order to ensure market security, the legislative proposal imposes requirements for the use of the title ‘legal’ and guarantees and professional secrecy requirements on lawyers providing legal assistance in the field of business. Provision is also made for the right to prohibit the provision of legal assistance by persons. Following the proposal, a lawyer's authorization may be suspended if a lawyer is charged with a criminal offence and it must be assumed that the authorization will be revoked if the lawyer is found guilty. The question of suspension shall be the subject of a specific assessment. It is apparent from the proposition that the assessment, inter alia: shall focus on the nature, gravity and degree of suspicion of the action. Following the draft law, the suspension decision is dismissed by a judgment of the European Court of Justice. If an acquittal judgment is relied on, the suspension decision may be converted in line with general administrative law. The legislative proposal provides for exemptions from the professional secrecy of lawyers to be provided for by specific legislation, so that any exemptions in the field of taxation continue to be provided by tax legislation. The bill requires a police record for lawyers, lawyers, owners, directors and managers of law firms. This is justified by society's need for trust in the law industry. It is necessary to consider in concrete terms whether a requirement for a police attestation for lawyers and other assistants is a proportionate intervention in line with Article 8 of the ECHR. In any case, I would like to point out that there is no consistency in the legislation to require an exhaustive police record for lawyers' employees and other assistants when the Law of Law also requires an extended ordinary police record. The draft law provides for provisions on the entry into force and transitional provisions to be laid down in the law. This will ensure that these rules are submitted to the Stortinget. The legislative proposal will make the legislation more accessible both to lawyers and to the law-enforcement public. I am therefore very pleased that there is broad political agreement on the main content of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e310	As the Council of State itself is involved, there is still some work to be done before this law can begin to work. So I have a simple question for the Minister of Justice: can she give an estimate of how long it will take to get the regulations in place and make sure that this law can come into force? As the representative of Unneland was in, ten years have passed since work started, and many are impatient to have an up-to-date law for this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e315	It's important for the government that we get this done as quickly as possible, but I can't give an accurate estimate now. There is still a good deal of work to be done, and it is also important that we take the time to do the job properly. But we have a common interest in setting up new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e320	I understand that, but I hope the Minister of Justice understands the impatience around this from many quarters. Another issue is the question of the professional secrecy of lawyers, which has been raised by others. The Hurdals platform says something about this in its work on tax planning. Does the Minister of Justice have any signs of how you want to deal with that matter? Will it be promoted in the form of a case of its own, or how will the government attack it? This is something that both we and others are concerned about, and we also have common comments with the government on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e327	Now that we have a decision in Stortinget today, there is still more work to be done in a number of different areas before we return to Stortinget with a law of entry into force. We might also come back in other ways if it's right or necessary in the individual areas that we're going to look into.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e332	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e337	For the sake of order, it is important for me, as I was also involved in the line change, to point out that the Right is very concerned about the issue of the work against aggressive tax planning and international financial crime. I chose not to go into it in my first post, but there we are impatient. We share the view of most other parties that this is part of the special legislation and not of the law on lawyers. It's important to be principled in that question. Another thing is paychecks. SV goes very far in promising about a blank authorisation for increased salary rates. I am concerned that the matter will go further. The situation that is now between the law firm and – we get to say – the Ministry of Justice is not so lucky, and I am not afraid to say that there is an area where I would like to see us come further in the previous period. We are very impatient to find a solution, and I hope the Minister of Justice has it far up on the agenda. We can't have a situation like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e344	I share the Right's commitment to working against tax planning and exploitation of the law and other exploitation of the law to gain its own financial gain, either for individuals or businesses. With regard to the salary rate, I am very happy that SV in the autumn stayed with the government parties to increase it, because it has been subject for many years. In the budget proposal that was from the Right when we went into the government in October, there was no increase, and in addition it was a cut price increase, so if that proposal had remained, the lawyers would actually have a decrease in income in 2022. But we got to add tens of millions more to that just to increase the pay. I think it's a pity that the Law Association still initiated a boycott, but I understand that there are many things in the area of legal aid that there is a need to improve. That's the government's concern, and we're working on it. This applies not only to the pay-as-you-go rate and how it is distributed and arranged, but also to, for example: the legal aid scheme. There, the government will come back with proposals for a new legal aid system, which will be very important to strengthen the legal security of people throughout the country and the entire judicial area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e353	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e369	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e376	I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the SV's proposal to preserve the Bredtvet Forest. In our position, the Committee has shown that there is a broad consensus that today’s prison in Greenland in Oslo has been demolished and out of date. In order to find a suitable site for a new prison, there are also a number of considerations that need to be assessed and balanced against each other. Many aspects need to be taken into account in assessing the overall best location for a new prison. Among these we can mention: the principle of subsidiarity for prisoners; outdoor areas facilitating activation; route for visitors and relatives driving distance and police resource use The Committee notes that the proposers promote a proposal to reject the preliminary plans for a new Oslo prison in Bredtvet. The Committee also notes that at the same time the proposers want existing Oslo prisons and Bredtvet female prisons to be upgraded pending new prisons. Proposalers also point out that green areas are scarcely good in many residential areas in Groruddalen, which is one of the most densely populated areas in the country. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre, stress that of all the plots surveyed in the context of the relocation of a prison in Oslo, the conversion of Bredtvet women's prison has been considered as the best alternative of State Building and of the Criminal Service – if a prison is to be built within Oslo's borders. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister for Justice and Security states that there are no other blank alternatives available in Oslo that meet the criteria set for a new prison. The members of the Committee from the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Party refer to the State Council’s response letter to the Committee, stressing the important factors relating to the placement of new Oslo prison and the process of finding a suitable site. These members point out that the consequence of not using Bredtvet as a new location for Oslo prison is that the places at Oslo prison are being moved out of the capital. This will affect a number of considerations. These members, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, point out that it will present challenges to the police related to their work and resource use. Repatriation work and the principle of subsidiarity for prisoners will be challenged. It will also have an impact on the employment situation of employees and on the work of prison professionals at the edge of criminal services, such as health services and municipal services, and not least the voluntary environment, which is so strong in Oslo that it spreads across the country. We're in danger of getting this weathered. These members also note the local policy process in Oslo, where the municipality as a planning authority will decide on the issue of moving Oslo prison to Bredtvet. These members are waiting for an important signal to be given to the government on the views of Bredtvet as a new location for Oslo prison. Of course, these members expect the government to come back to the Stortinget case after the government has concluded which location is judged to be most suitable, and after going on to find a good solution for the criminal execution sites concerned. The majority of the Committee considers that the draft representative is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e410	It is a good and important representative proposal from SV, and it is important not to overrule local democracy. Listening to the people is absolutely important. Oslo needs a new prison. There's no doubt about it. A new prison in Oslo must be in Oslo – there is also no doubt about it. It should actually be a matter of course. In any case, the majority of the prison must be in Oslo, and if necessary, they will see whether it is possible to cooperate with other prisons in the eastern region if necessary. This is the case, for example. Ullersmo an alternative. There is great resistance to a new prison on Bredtvet. There are great protests about building up parts of or all of the Bredtvetskogen and building up local open spaces. But it's also a but, and it's that we can't be ruled by local protest groups to control social development, and that protest groups should decide what elected representatives should decide, which is actually a mandate elected by the people. Then it becomes fast chaotic, and then randomness and acjuncts are passed on to determine what is to be developed, and what priority it is to be of important, large public projects to be developed. So in national, important projects, such as: major transport projects, we must have overall political control. Then elected representatives need to make decisions based on what's best for the whole country. But it's important to listen to the people, and especially in this case, it's easy to listen to the people and listen to protests, because there are several good alternatives to building in the Bredtvet Forest. That's a very important point. There are many good alternatives here, and so in the Progress Party we react slightly to the claim that there are no alternatives to Bredtvet. We think that's odd. We have a very good proposal, and that is a very realistic alternative: today's prison in Greenland. It is an alternative that has been seriously, concretely and in detail investigated. It has been up to date until maybe only a few years ago. So it's a little strange that it was put in a drawer, we don't understand that. In that case, we ask the Minister to come up with that proposal again and look at it, because it is actually very good. There's a closeness to the police station. There is an important criterion, in order to avoid the police using several years' work to carry prisoners back and forth between the district court, the prison and the police station. It has been said that 30–40 additional police officers and women may be needed if the prison is moved far away from today’s police station. It's a tunnel from today's police station to the prison in Greenland. It is incredibly effective and practical for both the police and the prison system. It's close to the district court, and it's close to services like the Nav and the Red Cross. It's not least the proximity of relatives, which is also important. But what is important now, of course, is first of all trying to say no to building on the Bredtvet and in the Bredtvet Forest, which is not necessary. If new Oslo prison is to be built, it must be built in Oslo. Then probably the best option is Greenland, as we see it. There's a big emptiness. One doesn't have to build down the entire plot. One can build up parts of the plot, and then one can sell out the rest and get good income. There's actually a new roof on Section A, a new roof, and it's now empty. This means that it is also easy to clean up Section A, because it is empty and ready. Then you can make a break at the same time as you carry on today's activity. It was proposed that 176 new sites in Greenland, according to the plans we have put ourselves in, and it was proposed a new building of approximately. 40 places. It provides approximately 216 places and, if additional spaces are needed, it can be provided in the rest of the eastern region. This is at least a good solution that we in the Progress Party are looking at. I might have to take up our suggestions now since I've drawn myself first, so I'll do it. We have some joint proposals with SV and left and one with SV. I'll deal with those suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e425	Then the representative Tor André Johnsen drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e430	There is no doubt that Norway needs an upgraded high-security prison in order to ensure a high level of protection and secure conditions for prison staff. There have been a number of plots that have been assessed in Oslo and its surroundings. At the beginning of the location assessment process there were nearly 80 plots on the table. When the inspections were to happen, almost all the plots were removed. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has itself been involved in an inspection of eight plots, all of them on the eastern edge of Oslo. Finally, the choice of the green area on Bredtvet fell, a green area that means a lot to the local population. It may not be so strange that the proposal has encountered significant local resistance from a population in the Grorud Valley who feel overrun. It's not so strange, because the government is determined to outrun the majority in Oslo, who don't want a new big prison on Bredtvet. In the mission of State Building, they were to find an area for a new prison to replace today’s prison in Greenland, and to accommodate between 200 and 300 prisoners. Following the presentation, prison plans have been significantly reduced and the Ministry of Justice and Defence now looks at an alternative of 170 places. This option has never been on the table after exploring the other plot options and looking only at the Bredtvet, despite the fact that the other plot options in Statsbyggen’s report consider the other plots to be current and good. This has been a long discussion where the Workers' Party has tried to paint a picture that this is about being a rough city to have room for a prison, but it's a strawman they're trying hard to create. No one thinks we can't have room for a prison in Oslo. There is no one who believes that the women's prison in Bredtvet should not exist or continue to be there. There are some arguments, including from the Labour Party and the Government, that try to say that the only way to improve the compensation conditions for women on the Bredtvet is to build a new, large human prison. It's wrong, and it's an artificial opposite. Today, SV is promoting proposals to equip Bredtvet female prisons for a new prison. The compensation conditions for women are far from good enough, and we cannot wait for a whole new prison to improve their situation. We can start now. Local democracy is clear. A majority of the parties to the city council do not want to move Oslo prison to Bredtvet. This case illustrates well, it's also that you don't value green areas. You think of them as free to rage, but they're not worthless to the population. For those who have the Bredtvet forest as their green lung, it has great value. We can't keep going for areas of freedom this way. Then Oslo will not be the pleasant city we build for those who live there. Nor is it crucial for SV that Oslo prison is within the municipal boundary. It is essential that new prisons ensure sufficient proximity to the courts, the police, the support apparatus for the prisoners and provide a short route for relatives. Then it will be artificial to only look at the municipal boundaries, as travel time and other needs do not always follow the municipal border. A major problem in this matter from the very first proposals on large prisons on Bredtvet came to the table, has been that the residents almost feel completely in the dark about the process. We can't go on like that. The government has to play with open cards. Cristina Olsgaard in the action group Bevar Bredtvetskogen has told the newspaper that the whole process is bad: we don't even get invited to the table, that place we have elbowed up to. We don't see the cards, and we don't know what the rules are. But for us, this isn't a game. This is serious for us who live here, and for the future of our children. Local democracy is important, and it is important to make sure that good decisions are properly anchored. That is why we are promoting a proposal today that the government should come to Stortinget with its own case about the location of Oslo prison, so that we get a proper debate on the right premises. This proposal, I hope the Stortinget can gather around, because it deserves the people of Groruddalen. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e453	The representative Andreas Shelg Unneland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e458	Now we're probably not going to yell so much from committee meetings, but when we got this case to the committee, I thought it might have ended up in the wrong committee, maybe it should have been in municipal or environmental or something like that, because conserving a forest might not be a justice policy. But when you listen to the debate here, it's most of all that. What's strange is that while all other representatives, from the rest of the country, are fighting for prison in their region, parts of Oslo don't seem to want prison. And I can say, after a few years in the Health Committee, that having a local disagreement about location and location, things tend to go out on time – no one mentioned, no one forgotten. But to the matter: the right has not concluded in this case. There is a reason why the previous government asked for an investigation or a new case around this. We have patience to wait for it. We believe that this matter deserves thorough and good work. A prison is so much more than a detention centre. There's a lot of traffic going on back and forth. As the representative of Unneland and others has been involved, transport to and from the courts, representation of the courts, police, etc., is central, and, of course, consideration is also important for the prisoners, their relatives and the staff, given where to put such a prison. What we're concerned about is that once a new Oslo prison is built, it has to be sufficiently dimensioned, it has to be decent and at all times a modern prison, which meets the requirements that everyone demands. With regard to SV's loose proposal today, we can vote in favour of it, simply because now there is so much happening in this case. There are also things happening in Oslo City Council, to which of course we lend ear, but we haven't concluded. There are similar decisions from the previous period, so in any case this matter has to be dealt with within the Storting, but as I said, we have not concluded. But now we've been on committee tour and visited Agder, and what's certain is that scaled solutions and sharing new, modern prisons are probably not smart, so when building a new Oslo prison, it has to be big enough. We are also very concerned about the women's prison on Bredtvet, so that we do not now support SV's proposal, does not mean that we do not want an upgrade of Bredtvet, but we are of the belief that this must be seen in a context. I wish the Minister of Justice every success, because I do not think this will be easy. As I said, we have to be constructive here, and again: if we do not want to have prison in Oslo, we can build a prison in Haugesund or in Karmøy or Tysvær, because in my region we are waiting for this prison. But the Right has taken the consequence that the need right now is greatest in Oslo. Then this way of doing it is not suitable for good progress, as I would rather have seen that we did not have this case for treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e471	Finally, this case is not about Oslo not wanting to be imprisoned in Oslo. What it's about is that we don't want to build in the forest on the Bredtvet. That's what this is all about. It's about having a green area here that has been considered and planned for decades to be more important in the Groruddalen. This is not a park, it is a forest area, which lies in the Grorud Valley – and for those who have kept on for a long time, it is such that ever since the Grorud Valley was planned in 1997, this has been considered an important area. It is unique that you have a forest area in the city. It is not comparable to the role of Marka. This has a completely different role for Oslo, and for the Groruddalen. That's what this is all about. It's about finding an empty space for a new Oslo prison, because the Left agrees that we need a new prison, and that we need to move away from Greenland. And then this is about where we're going to add it. It cannot be that the country allows to choose areas — in this case a green area, a forest — into which no other builder would be allowed to build. Then we have to look elsewhere, and the previous government started this process by looking at alternatives other than the Bredtvet. There have been investigations – now I don't remember how many, but there are eight that were made, that eight plots have been seen, where both Haugenstua, Masemyr, Solvang and Krogsrud are left as alternatives from that investigation. And what you now have to do is keep working on these. What matters to Oslo is that it's in connection with Oslo, and that you have a good approach. This applies to family members of those in prison and others. Now I think it should also be possible to find areas in Oslo without having to go into green areas and forest areas, but we now have to relate to the investigation that has been made, and work on the possibilities that are there. So I'm also excited to hear the statements of the Council of State, because now it's clear this week that there's a majority in Oslo who are opposed to re-incarceration on the Bredtvet, at least if you're going to interpret the news articles that are, also with Oslo Right, that have now been clear that they don't want to be imprisoned on the Bredtvet. I would expect the Council of State to follow it up, and now look at new areas and new opportunities for the Bredtvet. There's been investigations here, there's been a work going on, and it's the ones that now have to be completed, so that we can continue to develop the Bredtvet. We need to upgrade the prison on Bredtvet, but also to develop the green area and the forest area there, with the values it has locally and for the Groruddalen and for Oslo as a whole. I refer to the Left's proposal on the matter, and we will also vote in favour of resolving the proposal that has now been added to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e484	Then the representative Ola Elvestuen has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e489	I'll start at a slightly different place than I usually care about this kind of post. I want a more constructive tone from SV. I would like to thank the Right and other speakers who actually understand that this is a matter that involves a great responsibility for the government to find solutions, but that we all have to take responsibility for finding the right solutions. SV's representative makes a number of claims in his post that are not correct, and in which I am not familiar. Among other things, it is said that the government is determined to have a prison in Bredtvet. That's wrong. We have not concluded on the matter. It was also said that the government does not play with open cards. I don't know about that at all. From the time I took over this matter after the previous government, when we joined in October, there has been one thing that has been in my head about this, and that is finding solutions and having dialogue. I have spoken to the Municipality of Oslo, we have invited all the parties to meetings, have sat around a table together and talked about this, we have prepared new drawings, sent over and said: we want to hear what you think, because it is important for us to listen to the municipality. We've been completely honest, and that's sometimes honesty is very important in a debate, because when we're going to find solutions for a new Oslo prison, which is urgent, there's no simple answer. Some parties strongly want the prison to be in Oslo, others feel that moving out is not so dangerous. If the prison is in Oslo, there are some considerations that we can take care of well, including: proximity to the warehouse, closeness to the police, but there may be other considerations that need to be considered, such as: that you have to build on an empty space that is not wanted locally. If we move the prison out of Oslo, I know that a lot of municipalities and places are ready with open arms and strongly want a prison, but then there are other reasons you have to have four. It's like this in many political matters, and especially this one, that it's hard to meet everybody's wishes at the same time. There are probably few parties in this room who have never been in government with this matter on the table, I think it's SV and Red. All other parties have been part of a government that has been responsible for moving forward with the matter. Oslo prison is worn out, and the work we are still doing, finding a suitable place for a new prison, is overtime. When both the previous government – I think I can say with certainty – and our government has been looking for a suitable land, there are a number of relationships that are balanced against each other. The new prison must provide good conditions for the prisoners, there must be activation possibilities, there must be a good health offer, and there must be closeness to family. It must be possible to get effective to and from the police. It should preferably be a good collective offer, and we also need to assess the overall use of resources for both police and criminal matters. As several speakers have pointed out, state buildings have made extensive land purchases, not only once, but twice. I think we can all agree that it is unfortunately – but Bredtveit has come out as the best option in both rounds. When I say that, I'm not saying it because the government wants a prison on the Bredtvet, but because that's the way it says it. I think it's important to be honest about that. The rest of the plots in Oslo are not suitable for many different reasons, as both state buildings and we have explained to many times. There's also more information about if there's still someone who wants to. Greenland has been taken up as an alternative here today. As far as I'm aware, it's an empty that Oslo wants to release for other purposes. It is a protective building where there is no bath or water installed on any seller, so it will be very, very expensive to renovate – if it should now be such that you have changed your mind. But it's not wanted. Masturbation is another land that has been discussed – not so far from Oslo. There will be no prison for the local population either. So this isn't that easy. We have a great deal of understanding that the Bredtvet Forest is important to the local population, and I am glad that we have had a constructive dialogue with the City Council leader and other political leadership in the Municipality of Oslo. I have also, as many people have been involved, registered that they have now actually landed on request from us to decide if you want a prison, and have come to the conclusion that Oslo Municipality does not want a new prison in Bredtvet. That is why I consider it very little topical that a new prison can be located in Oslo. But it's urgent to move on, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e512	I am very pleased that the minister is clear that the government has not concluded, that is good. I am also very concerned that the minister is looking at the possibility of getting a win-win situation. If you go back to Greenland, there is no conflict with neighbors, no conflict with protest actions and no forest areas that are being built. There is also no cultivated land that is being built down, so it should be an ideal case for the Center Party. There are good, concrete plans for upgrading so that sanitary considerations are respected, and there are good, concrete plans for a new building of approx. 40 places and plans to sell away parts of the land so that you can free up land and also get income. Will the minister look at those plans again, not reject them completely? I think that might actually be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e517	I have looked at many different plans in time that have gone on since 14 October. Greenland is also one of them, and I think it is very little topical, among other things. because of the circumstances I mentioned in my post from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e522	It is nice if the minister has looked at those plans, but I really realized that the mandate that State Building has received is more to look at new plots. That word was used specifically from the pulpit too, that there were new plots that were the premise for the search of Stadsbyg. I think it might have been interesting to hear what assessments the Minister finds in this case to be burdensome in order not to go further with Greenland. It is an attractive area, and you can get a lot of money out of it if you sell out parts of the plot. The plot is as far as I know, almost 40 goals. You don't need the whole plot to a new prison, and I'm not familiar with Oslo's demand not to upgrade Oslo prison. If Oslo can choose between preserving the Bretweet Forest or expanding and expanding Oslo prison in Greenland, I think the answer will be simple, then I'm sure it will be Greenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e527	As far as I know, it is desirable to be able to use that site for other purposes, and the building mass that is there today is inappropriate to continue as a prison as it is. It must be extensively refurbished. As I said, large parts of the building mass are also protected. It will be very expensive, it will not be an appropriate building for the prisoners without having to take, for example. park areas or other things, which also have a value. It is a good location, I agree, but there are many conditions that make it inappropriate to continue with today's emptyness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e532	The time for local overrun is over, the government is stuck in the Hurdal platform, but you can ask if it's true for Oslo as well. Will the population be overrun if Ullevål hospital is laid down, when the sample motorway E18 is to be built, or when a new large prison is to be located in Oslo, and it has previously been pointed to Bredtvet, even though all parts of Groruddalen and almost an overall city government do not want it? This week, as the Minister of Justice said, the message came from the head of the City Council, from the Labour Party Government Party, that the matter was dead and buried. He says to Avisa Oslo that there will be no state regulation. Oslo shall not be overrun. My question to the Minister of Justice is, Is the matter dead and buried? Is it true, as the mayor of Oslo says, that there is no state regulation at Bredtvet?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e541	My starting point has been that I want you to welcome a new prison locally. That is why we started a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo last autumn. That is why I went out and said that we have not concluded, but here the matter is as it is available. Nor is it so often that a government in that way invites to be enthralled, as SV has done, despite the fact that we have been so clear all the way that we should talk to people, hear what you want, but that we have to rely on the real circumstances of the matter, which is that the Bredtvet appears to be the only current option in Oslo. But now Oslo has said his own. Rather, we want the prison to be outside Oslo, and we will listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e546	Now I was very pleased with the statements of the Council of State, both in terms of finding a different land from Greenland, and in terms of following the majority in Oslo, in view of Bredtvet. Then we're in a different situation. Then this is just about where we can find an empty space for a new Oslo prison. We have investigations that are underlying, and they will have to be followed, but I think maybe the Council of State can still challenge Oslo to see if they have elsewhere. There are proposals in the investigation that have been in the past, but perhaps there are opportunities in Oslo or near Oslo that do not involve building on green areas. Will the State Council continue the dialogue with Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e555	I'm going to have a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on many things in the future. In terms of land selection for a substitute for Oslo prison, I think it's important to move on. There have been so many rounds that are unprofitable, and Oslo prison is overtime, really. We don't know how long there can be operation there, and it's a big responsibility to have. Therefore, our starting point will now be to go further – in the light of those investigations – with plot alternatives outside Oslo. I have said earlier in the process that we are also looking at solutions such as: can split up the project, so that you have some place somewhere, a little further away from Oslo, and some place a little bit closer to Oslo. We have to get back to what we're going to do, but it's important to make progress. There have been many laps with Oslo now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e560	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e567	The exposure to the conservation of Bredtvetskogen has been mildly large. Earlier this year hundreds of people met in demonstrations and torches to preserve the forest. That's not strange, because Oslo is a city with very few green areas available in central areas. The more important it is, therefore, to protect the remaining green areas in Oslo. The broad white forest is one of the last green areas left in this part of the city. The Bredtvet has a unique birch forest with a varied animal life. It is an important area of freedom for people in the neighbourhoods, both on the Road, Kalbakken, Lateløkka and Rødtvet, and is used diligently by people of all ages. There are major social health differences in Oslo between East and West. The municipality’s public health plan states that ‘differences in growing conditions and living conditions in Oslo shall be reduced’. Housing areas that facilitate physical activity can therefore contribute positively and also have a positive effect on the level of activity. For several years, extensive efforts have been made to improve living conditions in the Grorud Valley through Groruddalssatsingen. One lives more crowded there, and in fact Groruddalen is one of Norway's most densely populated areas. Not everyone living in blocks has access to their own garden spots. Therefore, short and easy access to nature, provided by the Bredtvetskogen, is very important to maintain also in a public health perspective. Yesterday, the news came from Mayor Raymond Johansen that the Bredtvet alternative is now dead and buried. It is a great victory for everyone who has engaged in this matter. The people of Bevar Bredtvetskogen and the Federation of Nature Conservation have made a formidable effort. The local city councils have said clearly from now on, and in the future, I believe that we in this Chamber should listen to Oslo. It is important to look at other alternatives to imprisonment as quickly as possible and, pending this, Red will support proposals here today to upgrade existing building mass. There is no doubt that the conditions on Bredtvet are too bad for the prisoners, and it is Red's concern. However, a prison cannot come in a scaled-down version, as suggested, in view of the needs of the prisoners, nor should it eat up valuable green areas or overrun the local population. Now I believe that a prison on the Bredtvet should be laid political death, and the government should listen to what a nearly collective city council has said, what the local community says, and what Oslo now politically signals that they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e581	It was interesting and exciting to listen to the representative Drvland Lund's engaging posts. When he specifically mentions a varied animal life in the Bredtved Forest, it is difficult not to make a small comment that it had been tempting to put the wolf out in that forest for me that is from Hedmark, and we had got a predatory debate. We're not going to talk about predators today, but I just want to clarify and inform the Storting that the Progress Party will also support SV's proposal, no. 6, that the Stortinget gets a ‘own case on the placement of new Oslo prison before final decision is taken’. What is important to us in the Advancement Party, and that is how I interpret SV, is that we should then have a thorough, proper, good judicial professional review of all alternatives – not only the empty alternatives, but also existing prisons, such as in Greenland. And then I think that the Minister and others will see that Greenland will actually appear as a very, very wise compromise option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e588	I am very pleased that we are getting clear signals today from the City Council in Oslo that a majority are opposed to the construction of the new Oslo prison in the Bredtvedtskogen. It is due to enormous local involvement over several years from the population of the Groruddalen, from local politicians in the Groruddalen across the various political parties, and otherwise in Oslo. I want to take the opportunity to thank you for that effort, because it shows that it has something to say about engaging in issues that are decided on at state level, and it has something to say to do as voluntary and local activists, too, independent of party policy. Thank you so much for that. I am also pleased that the Council of State here today is so clear that it is not relevant to state enforcement. It is important to respect the wishes of the local population, but not least the wishes of local politicians, who do not want the state to come and take decisions across what are quite unambiguous signals and messages locally. I'm glad to hear that. Furthermore, I think there are still good opportunities to explore alternative plots also in Oslo with the scaled-down option that the Ministry of Justice has also put on the table. We have not really been able to find out. A scaled-down option has been presented for the Bredtvedtskogen, but not for the other plot options both inside and outside Oslo that Stadsbygg has previously pointed out. I hope we can preserve the Bredtvedtschogen also for future generations. I can assure the representative Johnsen that we have wolf in East Marka, and that is fine. But right in the Bredtvedtskogen, I think the deer, the squirrels and the countenances can do without wolves, and that in the long run, we can get it as a permanent haven for the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e601	I record that the minister has repeatedly spoken about the tone of SV in this debate, but it is not the tone of SV that is important here. The tone of SV comes from a strong local involvement in the Groruddalen in Oslo to preserve one of the green lungs you have. That's the commitment we pass on. The message with which the Minister of Justice comes to Stortinget today should be a joyful message. The Minister of Justice should have congratulated everyone who has been in favour of the Bredtvet Forest, who has been in charge of local democracy in Oslo. They should be congratulated by the Minister of Justice today, for it is only one year since we agreed on proposals to scrape the plans for a new Oslo prison in Bredtvet. SV and the Center Party were united for local democracy to be heard in this matter. We also agreed to consider alternative sites for a new prison. So this is a fight we've fought together. But I now feel that the Minister of Justice is very concerned to point out what tone SV has in this debate, when we have used to be shoulder to shoulder in this matter. I think that's a shame. Today we should be happy, we should celebrate that the activists have come through. That is positive, and at least I would like to congratulate all those who have fought this battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e610	I will not say that much either, but I think this is an important matter for Bredtvet. And for those of us who have been working for the Bredvet Forest for many years, I think we're going to take this not only as if you have a breakthrough here, but also as a challenge to work on, because we need to find a new prison. I do not agree that this should be on Greenland; it needs to get away from Greenland, and there is also a great potential for getting other activities, including for the whole area. I think the most important thing about this is that we take the challenge. This isn't just about being against a prison on Bredtvet, it's primarily about being for the forest that's there and the unique thing about having a forest in the middle of town. But it's also about being for a new prison and being active in how we're now going to find solutions, and finding them quickly, so we can run this case forward. So I just want to say that I am happy with the signals that the Council of State has given, and will bring this into the Left – also Oslo Left – as a challenge to the work to be done in the future, so that we can move on and get the broader consensus on how to work to establish an alternative to Oslo prison as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e619	I called for a more constructive tone because the representative made several false claims in his post. My whole goal with the process we've had since this fall around the Bredtvet, has just been to go to the Municipality of Oslo and those who are engaged in this and say: "This is the case now, Bredtvet appears to be the only real option in Oslo. We haven't decided. We want to hear what you think is most important to focus on. I am pleased that we have had a good and constructive round with – I think I can say – all the parties in Oslo City Council, and that they have now come back with a clear signal. I very much appreciate the dialogue we have had, and I also appreciate more articles today that take into account the seriousness of the situation we are facing. Because yes, I'm glad there's still going to be a green area in the Groruddalen, and I also know that the centre party is very busy locally, but I'm also very worried. I'm concerned about all those who are in very bad reconciliation in Oslo prison, for the women who now have no prospect of getting a new female prison, and that this case may be going to be arduous even in the future. No matter what option we're looking at, no one's just a front page and no bottom page, so here we have to make some difficult choices in the years to come, and I feel that there's an understanding of that in the hall. As a government, we are going to facilitate progress and find solutions, and I also look forward to cooperating with Stortinget on this when we come here with the matter in an appropriate way. But there are many considerations that are not so far ahead in the debate when the forest of Bredtvet is what is in focus, but which are also very important considerations in this matter, and then especially the circumstances of the inmates, with whom it is inexcusable to have something done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e630	I appreciate the government's good commitment to finding a solution, but it's so small incredible: SV with more people here in the hall want a prison in Oslo. They want to rust up the Brethren and strengthen the conditions around the compensation for women in the East, but have therefore gone against what could allow it. Lights and lights have been lighted after alternative places for Oslo prison, but in the contributions from the Progress Party and the Left with more, it turns out that there is a lot of lack of knowledge about what has been done. It has been, as the Progress Party calls for, thorough and good reviews – and as the Council of State says: times two – to find a usable land. Masturbation is mentioned. They don't want to sell, and the municipality won't build. I don't think the garden's a good place. Oslo Prison is, as well explained by the Council of State, very expensive if it is at all possible to equip for a modern prison with modern punishment. Then I wonder if the people who are protesting here today have looked at the strongly scaled-down option on the Bredtvet, where the Department, the Criminal Service and Statsbyggen have done a very good job of meeting the local protests. It has been severely reduced and green areas are well protected. So after all the sun tags, the width is the only real option if the prison is going to be in Oslo. If Oslo, our capital, stays standing without a prison and a modern female prison in the East is being sent out into the blue, actually gets SV, as I see it, carrying it on their shoulders. And I think it's sad -- a capital that doesn't have the ability to take care of its own jurisdiction, is the way I see it, social politics is a very sad sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e641	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e646	I have to say that I respond to the Workers' Party's suggestion that we have not been involved in the matter. The party of progress has definitely looked at the scaled-down plans of the Bredtvet Forest and has also – unfortunately perhaps as the only party, as I see it – put us into what is happening in today's prison in Greenland. It's rather the opposite; there I think the Workers' Party has not been well enough involved in those plans. It's not sure the minister will answer, but this is a little interesting: I feel the minister says that when the Municipality of Oslo does not want a new prison on the Bredtvet, the government will listen to it, and I see the minister as it's almost an open door to be able to have prison outside Oslo. This opens up new opportunities, for example: Kongswinger, Stange. In that case, what criteria will the Minister base? That's probably the distance to Oslo, I think, expansion within existing walls, maybe completed regulated plans and plots that are already in public or in the possession of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e653	The first ones I saw on Facebook that cheered last night, late last night, after the look-up in Avisa Oslo with Raymond Johansen, which makes it clear that there is now a majority in Oslo City Council against the expansion on Bredtvet, were the leaders of the city councils in Bjerke and Grorud Town. Both of them are from the Workers' Party. So my question to the representative of Aasen-Svensrud is, will she say that the two, who work successfully for the people of Groruddalen, are a very sad social policy scene? I sincerely believe that they are not, because they take seriously the challenges and opportunities we have in the Grorud Valley. They take seriously the 140 000 people in the Grorud Valley who also have and live in some social policy challenges every single day, who really deserve and require to be taken seriously when they say that they want free areas, green areas and to be listened to locally. The reality is that the Bredtvet void is too small, even with the scaled-down option. State buildings themselves point to the exact fact, and that an alternative solution as a result of being too small is to move the women's prison. That's what's in the back of State Building. It is therefore free for the government at any time to actually vote in favour of or even propose the most necessary upgrade of the Brettenvet female prison. There's a majority in the room, SV is ready. No one is forcing this government to let the Brethren Women's Prison stand with the unworthy conditions that are today. SV has worked intensively for it even before moving Oslo prison to Bredtvet. Please, come on, put forward proposals – we are ready to vote in favour, because it is necessary. It's just for the government to start working for it rather than using it as a shell argument. JURK too has warned that putting together a female prison and a human prison may have some significant negative consequences. This is about practicalities more than real willingness to actually give priority to women as sons within the walls of Bredtvet today – a prison that otherwise has broad support in the Groruddalen, so this is not about wanting not a prison in the neighbourhoods but about caring for the local population and the natural areas that are there. I just want to repeat that other plots have not been determined with the scaled-down option. The government would like to come back and do that, even as far as the plots in question in Oslo are concerned, and we are happy to look at the possibilities of being imprisoned there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e674	I just want to repeat what has been said by several people: it's not like the government has decided or decided where a new prison should be. It is well worth repeating the following: When it has been claimed that the government has decided for something, it is a wrong claim, and when you say that it has not been open cards, it is a wrong claim. It's actually so that the whole process, which I think everyone will be familiar with actually has been, and is, demanding, deserves a slightly different input. Then it's all about pointing to the facts: you haven't decided, and you've had open cards. So there is no simple answer in this case. It is possible that someone thinks there are simple answers, but the process in the Municipality of Oslo shows that there are actually no simple answers related to this. It's demanding. And even though the case basically applies to the Bredtvetskogen itself, it's obvious that realising the necessary new prison capacity for Oslo is a demanding process. That has also been pointed out by the Council of State. The issues that are important to address are rehabilitation, outdoors, travel distances for relatives, and proximity – but it is also about costs and operationally efficient prisons. We also have to include that in the picture in the future. I am sure that at some point you will find a good solution to the prison situation, which will give you the necessary capacity, but I believe everyone will benefit from following the constructive tracks that have at least been the focus of some in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e684	A representative from the Progress Party asked about plots outside Oslo. As I said already in the fall, the government has looked into whether we can create a solution with location in several places. For the maintenance areas – as if I remember correctly, it is approx. 60 pst. Of the places now in today’s Oslo prison, it is particularly important to be close to the district court and the police. For some of the settlements, you might be able to accept a slightly longer driving distance, and then for example, you're going to be able to take a slightly longer driving distance. land as Ilseg current. That's something we want to see if we can get to a solution. But in the light of the signals we have received from Oslo municipality this week, we now have to go back to the drawing board and start again with finding an empty one. I just want to attend some of the things that were taken up by the representative Kaski. The fact that a women’s and men’s prison for reasons of practicality should not be together is, of course, correct, but then one has to set up prisons and build them in such a way that they are separated. With the scaled-down plot proposal that was now submitted to the Bredtvet, it has been taken care of. Concerns have been expressed as to whether the prisoners are allowed sufficient room, for example: per inserted, and on the scaled-down solution, reduce the area of activation, etc. The place is proportionally the same for each prison, so the conditions of the prisoners are the most advanced when planning a new prison. In the case of other plots, it's not as easy as seeing if the scaled-down solutions work, because not all plots are the place that's the problem. We have e.g. an area that has been quite topical, where there is a large tram station right up to the site, which is not so good to live near for prisoners. We can't help that, even if you chose another size of the prison. You have a small area, a little over 30 measures. The scaled-down version of Bredtvet is 47, so it's too small again. I have been looking at an area that is very rough, which is not suitable for the construction of that land. In the dialogue we have had with Oslo, there was another land that is unsuitable because there is an old landfill there with dangerous gases coming from the ground, which makes it not suitable for residential purposes, and therefore not for inmates there. So there are different things that make it hard to find more plots in Oslo, and that's why I thought it was right – and I still do – to go out in the harvest and say that the alternative that is in Oslo is Bredtvet. But then I asked Oslo to decide whether it would be more appropriate to leave the prison outside, which we have now received an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e693	I don't want to charge either from the council or anyone else, so I'm going to try to put myself on a little cautious tone. But I think it's important that you understand and respect the popular commitment that this and many similar things generate. Local commitment that goes into the local populace, you get in touch with us at Stortinget, you get engaged – I assume everyone in this room has the greatest respect for that. Then it is not so strange that it also, at the next instance, triggers proposals that will be dealt with in this room, as it has done in this matter. I think we should have respect for that, and that is an important part of popular democracy. Then, of course, you can have many opinions about the content of the case, but I will at least assume that it is in itself good that we also discuss matters like this. I myself come from a part of the country where all municipalities – and that is true to the extent that all municipalities throughout the country, with the exception of Oslo – want a prison. I'd like to get a prison to Troms, so it's a little special about the debate that's going on in Oslo. But there is respect for the local debate, and that is also what we are looking for when we support the SV's proposal that the matter should be dealt with in the Stortinget. That's why I think it's a little unnecessary when you go very far because you're critical of proposals that come up to alternative locations, for example. by my co-representative, who refers to an alternative location in Greenland, which I also believe should not be rejected altogether. I also think there is something that could be looked at, to see if action can be taken there, for example. to ensure that parts of the old building stock, which are currently protected, can be protected in a good way and combined with a modern building. There are solutions when the areas are present, but there is no need to describe the representatives who make the proposals as unknowing. I do not think so in the debate. What is at least the case, no matter what one should land on – now we get a separate case for the Storting – is that it is not beneficial to start sharing prison: a little here and a little there. It's very important that we have large units that make sure you get an economy in the projects that make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e702	The representative Kaski challenged me. Well, I think it's great that people get involved in their neighborhoods and in their neighborhoods – that's what I say. Even as a local politician, I have been in many cases about hard-working homes and care centres and everything, sometimes in line with my neighbors, and sometimes where the neighbors have had to make friends so that it didn't become exactly as they wanted it to be. What I think would be a sad social policy scene was whether the capital remained standing without a prison. Then I also look forward to SV prioritising women's soning in their negotiations with the government and us, because this has not been done until now. SV has prioritised differently and would like to do so for other good purposes. As far as the issue of reconciliation is concerned, it is very well taken care of in the Bredtvet option, as explained by the Council of State. It's actually a particularly good solution for both men and women. Although the Bredtvet is now over-mature for rehabilitation, as the SV advocates, there are prison buildings around the country that are equally poorly placed – and worse – and if we do not use the opportunity now, you will have to put Bredtvet in line with all the other prisons that are sorely in need of rehabilitation, because we know it is a great aftertaste. So the chance is here and now to do a decent job with the women's soning in the East and provide a modern, good prison for the women who son at the Bredtvet. If it does not happen, well, then Bredtvet is in line and needs to be assessed against many other good measures in the rehabilitation of prison buildings in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e711	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e716	The representative from the Center Party thought it was a little bad and difficult that I said that it wasn't played with open cards, but I quoted the leader of the action group on how they experienced this process. They are the ones you have to criticise, but we can look at what it has been like in this room today. The Minister of Justice said, "We didn't conclude on Bredtvet, we just pointed it out. At the same time, she says, "There are no other suitable alternatives." Then I think you can put one and one together. This means that you had actually concluded before you got crazy local resistance. One of the problems here, which I hope the government will take with it in the further work, is that we have to start by appreciating nature and the degradation of nature. It is not assessed in the different options when looking at costs. Where some of the other plots are pointed to as more expensive, the cost of actually building up an important green area for people in the Grorud Valley has not been assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e727	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e732	I can once again assure the government parties that we are ready to form a majority to upgrade the women's prison on Bredtvet, but it is with respect not to notify SV's responsibility as a budgetary partner in Stortinget to go through it. In fact, the government must also take responsibility for itself, especially when it has kept that tab so high throughout this debate. But again, I can absolutely assure that we are ready to form a majority, either by voting for the majority here or by beating through that part of the budget. The discussion related to the co-location on Bredtvet may not be so topical or relevant anymore, but for the sake of order, I think that is the basis for saying that precisely whether there will be real separation or not is the basis for the resistance that, among other things, is. JURK has come along, and it is clear – at least on the basis of the plans so far presented, I have to make a reservation on this – that several parts of the offer for prisoners will be for both. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e739	I would like to thank you for a good debate. It's nice when there's involvement in the hall, anyway. Until then, I don't think it makes sense to discuss it so much further, but in the scaled-down solution, it was at least important for the government that the need to protect women was a high priority. That's also why it's a woman's own building and that the location of it built on the site is laid so that they are just shielded. Finally, I just want to go through the background for the round we have had this winter, so that SV can understand it as well. The previous government made a search for land, and Bredtvet came out as the best option. There was a lot of resistance, so you shrunk it and did a new blank search to find another solution. And then the plot search is done, but there's no other solution. Bredtvet is the only real option in Oslo. When I know that, I also feel a responsibility to say that, so that politicians and people in Oslo can decide on the matter in the light of the facts in the matter. That is why in the autumn I communicated it to both the Stortinget, the public and not least the Municipality of Oslo and asked that we have a dialogue about it. We've had meetings that I really appreciated -- a nice conversation where there was an opportunity to ask questions, and where I think all the parties, at least almost, were in. It's been a very nice round, and even though we're equidistant now, I think it's been a necessary round. Judging if it's okay for the prison to be moved out of Oslo is a big question in itself. If we hadn't gone this winter – given the actual circumstances of the case, based on an honest starting point that as we see it now, there's either a prison on Bredtvet, or we have to look at plot alternatives outside Oslo – Oslo wouldn't have had the opportunity to decide on that question either. I am happy we have had that round, and I am happy that we have been informed of many different aspects of the matter. In the further work, it becomes important for the government to find a solution that will allow us to improve the settlement conditions of the prisoners, and that we do not have the closure ghost in Oslo prison hanging over us, because it will also take time from a decision to where we are to build, until it is clear. I am happy to continue working on the matter, also in good cooperation with those who are here, and their parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e754	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e770	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e777	The Committee has had a proposal from the Progressive Party to amend Section 44 of the Criminal Code to include an exception allowing the courts to restrict the right of the court to apply for parole each year, in cases where there are low prospects for improvement in the judgment. Storage is a timeless punishment for particularly dangerous, probable offenders. The main objective is to protect society from new serious crime by sentence and can only be sentenced when the ordinary prison sentence will not be sufficient to safeguard social protection. Containment may be extended as long as there is a nearby risk that the conviction will commit new serious crimes. Therefore, the custodial judge can, in principle, keep his life out of detention. The judgment may apply for parole after the expiry of a minimum period, if any, already one year after the final judgment. The basis for assessing such a request is whether there is a risk of recurrence that would pose a threat to the lives, health and freedom of others. It is this right that the proposers consider it necessary to be amended by the introduction of an exemption provision allowing the right to restrict the right of jurisdiction to seek parole in certain cases. This applies to those cases where there is an increased risk of recurrence of serious offences. The fact that the detention penalty is time-indeterminate means that there is a strong intervention in the freedom of that sentence, and that it is therefore necessary, in the interests of the legal certainty of the convictions, to ensure regular judicial review of the continued fulfilment of the retention conditions. The rules of the Criminal Code on detention have been tightened up in recent times. In 2015, changes were made to the minimum retention time and timeframe rules. The maximum minimum retention period was extended from 10 years to 14 years in cases where the court provides for a retention period of more than 15 years and from 15 to 20 years where a timeframe of more than 21 years has been established. Furthermore, the maximum retention period was extended to 30 years for offences with a prison penalty of up to 30 years. It is a majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights who understand the proposal of the Progress Party. The Council of State also states that the issue should be considered, but that thorough legislative work must be carried out to prevent unintended consequences if such changes are to be made to the proposal of the representative. This consideration of the fact that such changes cannot be implemented without thorough preparatory work and where the Hearing Officer has been used diligently is also one of the reasons why there is now a majority in the Committee to say no to the representative proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e792	As the rapporteur points out, the other parties express an understanding of the proposals of the Progress Party and an understanding of the reasons given by the Progress Party in our proposal for a representative. Well, that's okay with understanding. Sometimes it's also necessary to act, and that's what the Progress Party is trying to do today, which unfortunately we don't get any of the other parties on. For the reasons for not wanting to legislate today – some refer to investigations and hope that you can get back to the case – it is, for example, what the rapporteur said, that reference is made to the fact that it can have unforeseen effects. I have all the understanding and great respect for that, that in some cases you can make changes to the law that have unintended effects. But some things are so simple, some things are so easy to deal with, that it's considered quite unlikely. So also in this case. This is clearly a matter in which a change cannot give rise to unforeseen effects, because in the wording of the proposal to amend the fourth paragraph of Section 44, it is thus stated as follows: ‘In cases of particularly high recurrence risk of serious offences: [[...]] So in some cases, in some special cases, it's not one year, it's three years. It's a relatively mild change. In the primary policy of the Progress Party, we want to go much further. And so it is not that other countries are unknown that there are stricter rules so that this could simply be solved. I don't want to get this to be about individual matters, but there are examples of things that – completely unnecessary, at my discretion – create a lot of excitement, a lot of debate and a lot of media coverage that are completely unnecessary, because we all know what the result is going to be. Some people are so dangerous that there is no need to assess annually whether this person should be released from custody. And in those cases, it should be natural that you have at least a room and an opportunity to limit the possibility of opting out. That is what this proposal is about. It is therefore legal certainty and good – it is to the extent that a former national lawyer has come up with this wording – and it should be quite straightforward to make this change in the Storting today, instead of making it a matter of process. Because I think, unfortunately, we're going to see, even in the time that's coming, examples of single things that get a lot of attention in the media, and that's really unnecessary. It also has a resource side, and it can be matters – and individuals – that have done so serious crime that only their mere presence in the public media image contributes, not least, to having an impact on their victims. I think we should be able to protect them from that, all the time it is completely unnecessary in these extreme cases to facilitate the use and use of such an annual attempt to get out. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and hope that it will still receive support from others but only us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e812	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e817	In this matter, we do not just understand the proposers; we almost entirely agree with the proposers. We have even formulated a proposal that I would urge everyone to vote in favour of, which goes very far towards what is the proposal for a representative, so I will deal with it. The reason why we do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party is that changing the penal code without a trial, without a consultation round, we think it is unfortunate. We used the same reason not to remove four letters from another paragraph a little while ago. What I'm more curious about – because I don't have to argue anymore; I fully agree with the chairman of the committee in the argument for such a change – is, after hearing the case rapporteur, what the government intends to do to look at this, because in the comments, it's a very clear that this might be a good idea. I believe that it is, and that there is a good legal certainty about it. I am absolutely sure that one could also have saved both resources and much noise by making such a change, and the court will decide in any case whether to deprive someone of the right to try the matter every year. So I'm excited to hear what the Minister of Justice has to say to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e828	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e833	Containment is a timeless punishment for particularly dangerous suspects. The aim is to protect society from new serious crime on the part of the judiciary. The detention can be extended as long as there is a nearby risk of new serious crimes, and the custodian can therefore, in principle, be held out of custody. When people can be kept in custody throughout their lives in practice, we depend on safety valves to ensure that people who are rehabilitated can return to society. There is a consensus in Stortinget that the safety valve, with a request for parole, which may be produced one year after the law of the day following the judgment of custody without a minimum period or one year after the time of the previous judgment on refusal of parole, shall be the main rule. The Contracting Party has proposed that an exemption provision be in place allowing for the restriction of the right of jurisdiction to seek parole in certain cases. This applies to those cases where there is an increased risk of recurrence of serious offences. It is not difficult to sympathize with such legislation. That, in some scenarios, annual tests may appear meaningless and that this annual test can also be used as a platform for spreading ideological projects or views is understandable. This proposal, which is based on a proposal from former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch as a contribution to the discussion that Breivik had recently tried his case, does not get a majority today. We need to be careful about making legal changes that go at the heart of legal certainty guarantees, even when it's difficult. To quote Tor-Aksel Busch, he said after the hearing from the Judicial Committee came out: ‘I have a strong understanding of the need for an ordinary process and a broad assessment of the proposal. It is in line with a good Norwegian legislative tradition’. SV is in complete agreement. If changes are to be made, a thorough process must be carried out, as the Minister of Justice also explains in his reply to the Judicial Committee. It is necessary to make use of the Hearing Officer and to provide thorough legal preparations to prevent unintended consequences if the proposed representative wishes to make such changes. For example, it should be assessed whether the condition of a particularly high recurrence risk is an appropriate criterion and how to interpret and understand it. We're behind the comments we're part of the committee, and we expect the government to continue working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e847	I would also like to begin by expressing full sympathy and understanding that it may be burdensome and painful for offended and abandoned that certain paroles come up at regular intervals, and that they are largely covered by the press. Some things are so serious that they have put deep traces in the Norwegian population, so that we all know of a great deal of discomfort when the sentenced person again seeks parole. However, I cannot get enough to stress that we must stick to our legal principles even in cases where it may be unpleasant. Human dignity and human rights are fundamental principles in our state of law. These principles are so important that they must certainly benefit everyone, including those who have committed cruel acts. I also feel that I have to stress the importance that laws cannot be made on individual matters. We cannot change the rule of law on a case-by-case basis. Storage is the only variant of the time-indeterminate detention penalty in Norwegian law. Therefore, it is also particularly important that there are clear guarantees of legal certainty related to the punishment. The more in-depth the reaction, the more stringent the access to the response has to be. Therefore, the left considers that it would not be right to restrict access to the risk assessment, as is now proposed, annually. In this respect, I would like to point out that the penal code was amended as late as 2015, so that terrorist acts can be punished by up to 30 years in prison. Warehousing sentences may be given at a minimum of 15 years before an application for parole can be made. Societal security shall be safeguarded by preventing a perpetrator from coming out and committing new offences. The main purpose of the detention penalty is to protect society from serious crime of violence by lawbreakers again. The terms of the Criminal Code are ‘the imminent risk that the offender again will commit a serious crime’. These hazard assessments usually have a high degree of uncertainty, and it is difficult to answer with certainty what a person can be expected to do in the future. This is also an argument that the test should be allowed annually. In that case, a court may assess the conditions under which evidence is presented, from both legal psychiatrists and acquittal experience. The duration of the reaction must be primarily related to risk considerations and repeatability assessments. I will end by stressing that an important consideration behind punishment is that it should be rehabilitating. One of the criminal services’ tasks is to prepare prisoners for life outside prison. This must apply regardless of whether anyone can remain in prison for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e862	First of all, I would like to express an understanding of the proposalers' wish to make changes to the right of detention sentences to ask for parole at one year intervals. For the offended and the abandoned, it can undoubtedly be felt as burdensome that a matter comes up, and that you get to try the question as often as today. It may also appear unnecessary to require resources with frequent legal testing of applications for parole which have little prospect of obtaining. At the same time, it is important that we bring with us and remember that custody is the most severe punishment we have in Norway. The custody penalty is timeless. It can be extended indefinitely as long as there is a nearby risk that the sentence will commit new, serious crimes, i.e. not indefinitely, but that it may in principle last for life. The detention penalty therefore represents a particularly strong intervention in the freedom of that sentence. Due to the indeterminate timing of the detention penalty, mechanisms are particularly important to ensure that the legal certainty of convictions is safeguarded. The right to be tested at regular intervals is such a mechanism. This right to review is of great importance for the legitimacy of the custody system. A continuous judicial review of the conditions of custody is also important in order to assess the progress of the prisoner during restitution. Having said that, I believe that there might be reason to consider whether a slight derogation from the right to try the issue of parole at one year intervals should be introduced. However, as many have experienced, such an exception raises several demanding questions, and it is important for the government that any legislative changes take place on the basis of thorough work, so that the cross-cutting considerations can be balanced against each other in a good way. I also believe that it is right for the government parties not to support the Right proposal, because we need not only to assess how an exception should be designed, but we also need to assess whether there is a need to make changes. It will be part of the assessments the government wants to go into. These include: the need to consider what would be an appropriate criterion to limit the scope of any derogation. The relationship with human rights needs to be assessed. I would also like to stress that the Hearing Officer is very important in assessing such complex issues, so that all aspects of the matter are adequately addressed. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs shares my view on the importance of a sound legislative process in this matter. The Ministry will start work on assessing the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e877	I would simply like to make it clear that, in the context of voting on the matter, the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right. It's only logical. Then I notice that the Council of State expresses the need to consider first of all whether the need is present. Then, suddenly, there is a slightly different description of the situation than I realized that the rapporteur took into account: that there was an understanding of the proposal. I guess that's not necessarily the same understanding in all government parties. But, as I said, we will subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e887	That understanding is no less, although the government parties believe that we are doing the right thing to have a broad and thorough approach to the issue, which I believe naturally also involves assessing whether it is appropriate to make legislative changes and, if so, how they should be designed. So we don't exclude anything in the further work, but it's important to get the matter informed and put forward a possible bill on a good basis that we also take an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e906	At the request of the Committee on Culture and Gender Equality, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 6 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e915	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality for a solid and sound presentation on media policy and freedom of expression. Recent events have undoubtedly shown us that freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of information are some of the pillars of free and liberal democracy. Both the pandemic and the war in Ukraine have illustrated that freedom of expression is a social good that we should in no way take for granted, but that we must fight for continuously, precisely in order to survive. As the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality makes such an important point, the need for high-quality, credible and independent editor-driven media is greater than ever. The pandemic and Putin’s attack on Ukraine have created additional ground for disinformation dissemination. Russia has targeted over time disinformation both within Russia and beyond Russian borders as part of a conscious strategy in just a destabilisation campaign. The first thing that dies in war is the truth, said American politician Hiram Johnson. Putin's war of aggression against Ukraine has greatly exacerbated the living conditions of the free press. Now, Russian media surveillance has blocked access to more media. Putin's new media law can punish so-called fake news with 15 years of imprisonment. The state-controlled Russian press serves as puppet dolls for Putin and gives him monopoly on the truth. In its sanctions package, the EU has now decided to block the media RT and Sputnik, both instrumental in the disinformation campaign of the Putin regime. I want to commend the action of the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality here – precisely not to do the same thing as the EU. Because in a free, liberal democracy, we must not fear unpopular and unwanted statements. A democratic society is served by dissent; unpopular expressions must also be allowed to escape. Unsolicited opinions must be met with criticism and opposition, not censorship. We should be careful to stop an opinion before it is made. For whom does the censorship know the next time the political wind changes? The Minister for Culture and Gender Equality can, in his statement, adorn himself with the fact that Norway tops for five consecutive years Reporters without the press freedom index of borders. We are therefore the country which, according to reporters without borders, guarantees freedom of the press. Although of course this is good news, we must not fall for the temptation to rest on the laurels of the press freedom index. For Norwegian media policy too, there is a wide scope for improvement, for example. in order to ensure better transparency for the press, to create a greater media diversity, to provide ground for new media, to ensure that small local and niche media survive in a constantly reflecting economic climate, and to prepare the basis for an increase in the use of the most beautiful gem of the media world, namely gravitating journalism. Much of the Norwegian press's success rates can be attributed to the fact that we live in a free and liberal democracy without politicians who put out obstacles and stumbling blocks for the press, perhaps with the honest exception that we have put out a never so small trap for journalists in terms of just transparency under the Public Service Act. The Public Service Act is a groundwork in an open and free society, where freedom of expression and information is strong, and where power and authorities can be looked at in the cards. Today, however, the press's appeals for refusal of access disappear as they are in harm to appeal against a ministerial decision instead of sending a complaint to the civil officer. When the complaint is lodged with the King in the Council of State – and flipped over, the real appeal option has substantiated. For this reason, the Left has proposed that the government remove this stumbling block from the Public Service Act, because in the worst case it can be used deliberately to prevent the press from gaining access to documents of general interest. I put my trust in the government and the Stortinget to help put this dirt hole in the law to ensure that the press really complains about transparency. I look forward to addressing the new challenges that the changed climate of opinion has brought with it, and to finding solutions that are for our common good, so we are not so afraid to disagree in the process on the way there and manage to have good, public debates that serve freedom of speech and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e938	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality for a thorough and good report. She clearly stressed that freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of information are entirely decisive in a well-functioning democratic society like ours. Norway shall be a transit country which protects and promotes freedom of expression, including internationally. But this is not something you can take for granted. I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Labour Party in opposition back in 2019 received several figures to ensure that such media policy was implemented annually for the Stortinget – precisely because we saw the need for a regular review of the state of freedom of expression, press freedom, debate and media in Norway. It's an important reminder to us politicians that we have to follow up the media debate in Norway. The fact that Norway is again scoring the press freedom index also shows that there is a need, because we are living in a time that really underlines the need and importance of such an annual distribution, and we cannot take freedom of speech and freedom of the press for granted. It is the Constitution § 100 that obliges the authorities to facilitate an open and enlightened public conversation. This is being done today through a law guaranteeing freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and through media policy to contribute to a diverse and differentiated press. Constitution ensures that we are a country that does not censor. It is also important that we have credible and nation-wide media that have high confidence in the population – a trust that we have seen grow under the pandemic and that has also been decisive for the people under the pandemic. We live today in a society where information flows, and where the need for trustworthy editorial media is perhaps more important than ever. Through a media shortage of editor-driven media, we secure a society of freedom of speech where everyone can participate in the public conversation and where one can actually trust that the information being presented is correct. We are therefore looking forward to the opinion committee's report, which will be presented in August. There we will have a review of the position of freedom of expression as a basis for driving the road further. Free editorial media is one of the cornerstones of our democracy, because it's through media policy that we're securing a media miscarriage that leads to Norway's world-lock when it comes to openness, freedom of the press and trust in our people. And if democracy is to work, we're dependent on that information. It is crucial for everyone to be able to participate. It is absolutely central to the foundation of a social democratic society to ensure that all citizens have the ability to inform themselves about what is happening so that they can make their own choices for the future and participate in the public conversation. I would like to stress that children and young people grow up in a digital age with enormous amounts of information, where we are increasingly demanding media users. It has contributed to additional shortages, at the same time it has given rise to new challenges when it comes to finding out what's real, and what's actually not real. It often makes it hard to know what's true and what's not. False news creates uncertainty, polarization and conflict. It makes us exposed to social pressure, advertising, and hot. In addition, it is difficult to distinguish between real and fake news. When we read at 35 pst. in the age group just below me – 16–24 years – not getting news on TV, radio or newspaper, that 17 pst. in the same target group only receives news in social media, and that 18 pst. in the age group are newcomers, we have a challenge we have to take the most seriously. The most important fight against fake news is to strengthen editor-driven media and quality journalism. For this reason, I also very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State in the distribution announced that the government is in the process of sending a big message about secure digital growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e955	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for her first media policy presentation. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the industry on the press freedom day of 3 May, one day we in the committee will mark in Bergen, where the press organisations, in cooperation with Media City Bergen, organise a seminar for us. Norway again peaks, as several have been in it, Reporters without the press freedom index of borders in 2021, for five consecutive years. At the same time, the day and opportunity must be used to shed light on the poor condition and space of journalists and the media in too many places around the world. Then I don't just think about countries like Russia and China. Even more daunting is the fact that freedom of expression is being restricted in several countries around us in Europe, countries that themselves like to represent themselves as democracies, countries that are members of both the EU and NATO. This should frighten us all, and we must use the channels we have to raise these issues. One of the messages that has really stuck after the Storting adopted the media release in the last period is that media policy is democracy policy. Media is a prerequisite for freedom of expression and democracy. Our job here in the house is to make sure that the media have the ability to be credible, independent and robust. One of the things that was good in Tuesday's presentation was that the government said no to censorship, and that we do not follow the EU's blocking of the Russian media RT and Sputnik. I already promised the same theme at the Right Central Board meeting on 13 March. The spread of propaganda about the war in Ukraine by the Putin regime cannot be an argument for censorship here in Norway. Russian propaganda is best combated with knowledge and good journalism. The censorship threshold must be high, and the Constitution § 100 imposes very high requirements to restrict the freedom of expression. I was clear before the last election that the most important blows for Norwegian media this four-year period will be on the international level. It was good to hear that the Council of State also drew up the job of both the previous government and the current government on the road to the conclusion in October that 137 of the 141 OECD and G20 Member States agreed on a declaration of principle on the taxation of large multinational groups, a scheme that is planned to take effect from 2023. The councils were also in the regulations DMA and DSA, and here I find through the industry that both the previous and current government have had good positions in that work. Both Regulations become important; DMA as port guards with a view to strengthening competition, while DSA aims to give greater democratic control and stronger supervision of Internet platforms, to reduce the risk of manipulation and disinformation and to counter illegal content. The right has submitted a proposal for a representative in which we challenge the government to investigate how we can better interact across sectors to challenge false news and disinformation and carry out systematic and long-term national work against false news and disinformation, in cooperation with Media City in Bergen. As part of this work, the Right invited you to a seminar in March on today’s situation and the challenge picture of social media and tegigants. The openings there included: lawyers, researchers, media actors, Facebook and In fact.no, to name someone. A few days later, we also met Frances Haugen here at the house, on the initiative of the Left. In this work, I think it is important that we listen to all the voices and actors who are familiar with the field. Let me finish at home. I see that the government, based on the presentation to the Minister of Culture, will make no changes in the case of the NRC. What I heard is that the Council of State buys the Media Authority's claim that the combination of a stronger competitive pressure from the NRK during the same period as the private media companies have stabilised their economy is evidence that the competition from the NRK is positive for the total media use. There is no professional basis for drawing such a conclusion. I think we actually have to consider including in the NRK poster a variant of the balancing provision from the regulation to the broadcasting law on the responsibility for the media diversity. The NRC should have an autonomous obligation to balance the need for a NRK service with the anti-competitive effect of offering such a service on the other hand. I also look forward to discussing the four-year control signal this fall. In December, the Media Authority presented a very good report which will form the basis for the job done by the government. So it remains to see what they choose to prioritize into the message section, which we will then have debated here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e978	I would also like to thank the good report, where our media minister clearly stated, and repeated, that the media are a prerequisite for freedom of expression and democracy, and that it is therefore very important for the government to support and facilitate it. In these times when a cruel war is taking place in Europe, where freedom of expression and freedom of the press are limited, and propaganda and false news contribute to intensifying the conflict and making it more difficult with peaceful solutions, we are all reminded of the importance of having a free, independent and serious press in which the people – including those outside the country’s borders – have confidence. That's why Tuesday's media policy presentation was an important political moment for me. It was also a calming moment for me as a citizen in Norway, when we there supported the experience that our Norwegian freedom of the press is very good – we score top international – and with our media diversity. It's going to be fine. The freedom of expression is guaranteed throughout with good public debate, but also with the fact that we will soon have the outcome of the freedom of expression Commission, and the government does not support censorship by Sputnik and Russia Today in Russia. So to one of the most important things that was established in the statement: the confidence in the media is high in Norway. Eight out of ten say they have confidence in Norwegian media, and even if flows in society try to undermine the confidence of our editor-directed serious media, it applies. I think it would have been good if we had received media that was also in a good way – and in the name of media pluralism and freedom of expression – to take up and make good journalism on the issues and angles that are being asked. But then it must be done seriously, without spreading false news, and by staying well within Be careful-plated and the Editorial poster. We'll see if it's possible. Should the freedom of the press, freedom of expression, media pluralism and the fight against false news – and with that for our democracy – be maintained, we in the Centre Party believe that we politicians must facilitate it with an active media policy. So even though digitalisation has gone quite well and the media's revenues are now greater than advertising revenue and have also had a small growth, we politicians have to take seriously that the media's advertising revenue continues to fall much more, and that it is extremely expensive for our television businesses to meet the TV requirements of our viewers now, after the fantastically good TV content offered. The same is true of the fact that paper publishing remains an essential economic activity for newspapers and that it is still extremely important for local radios to send on FM in order to keep their advertising revenue. In the last two areas, I am proud that we in the government parties have done a good job, by providing extra 8 million in pain. to the local authorities, as well as money for the maintenance of the Centres for Investigative Journalism, in the budget before Christmas – so that they survived the pandemic and the lack of corona support schemes for those with the lowest circulation in a good way – and by ensuring that they have more digging journalism, which, of course, confirms their important position in the community. We have also actively contributed to our local radios being sent on FM much longer than planned, i.e. to 2031. We in the government are prepared to continue working very actively with the tools we have to facilitate our media diversity. We will increase our innovation and production grants in a way that ensures good development in the local media, without jeopardising the major national and regional media. We are going to propose four-year control signals in the 2023 budget, we are going to review the NRK poster and set up a new general broadcasting agreement with TV2 to ensure the breadth and diversity of the content offered to the whole country, from across the country. We're also going to get a big message about secure digital growth, and we're going to focus extra on Sami media. The last thing is important, because our media are also central to preserving and developing Sami and Norwegian languages, culture and identity. Then I'm going to maybe the most important thing we're going to do, both in the government and in the Storting. We're going to work actively to address all of our challenges our own media have with the global media giants. Although those platforms and services are very positive, it is also a problem that they make a lot of money on content that our media provide and have cost, while running away with a very large proportion of advertising revenue without taxing Norway. Their censorship rules often go across well Norwegian editorial content that is suddenly simply removed, and their censorship rules also challenge freedom of expression in general at times. It happens at the same time that they don't have the world's best ability to control the spread of false news. Here I have to commend our media minister, because in this work she is really on the ball and plays an important role: by bringing together our media and technology giants around the same table, by including the themes in many forums, and not least by bringing the issue into the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e999	I would also like to thank the Minister for a good account. And that's absolutely right, very much in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of the press in Norway, is good. Today, however, I want to talk about something that didn't get that much space in the Minister's presentation, and that is about the challenges we have in terms of freedom of expression, also in Norway. I think we've seen a dangerous development in recent years. For example, one thing is: recent violent counter-demonstrations against SIAN, in which there has been violence against both demonstrators and police. It's not the first time either. In 2020, there were such violent riots, for example. Oslo and my own hometown, Bergen. Another, very disturbing, example was from 2020, when the French teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded for teaching cartoons by the prophet Mohammed. I think it should be a wake-up call to all of us that freedom of expression is still under strong pressure, including in Norway. Here in this country we should be able to draw, write, criticize and caricer who and what we want. There is a dangerous development if this could not be covered by freedom of expression. We should not adopt laws and regulations from other countries and cultures that restrict freedom of expression. It is inevitable in Norway, and the Progress Party believes it should be strengthened and not weakened. We will by no means compromise our values. Then I would like to come back to the Hurdal platform and the debate we had about the government statement, which rightly talked about freedom of expression. Festivities about the foundations of democracy are great, but I have to admit that I'm a little excited about how the government will defend it when it storms at worst. I believe that it is important that politicians, irrespective of their colour and their position, must stand firmly together in defending freedom of expression and our liberal freedoms. We can't have a rehearsal from 2006, when Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre called Dagen editor Vebjørn Selbeck for an extremist on Arabic television for publishing controversial caricatures. Over the last few years, we have seen that more have been involved, for example. a new blow-up permit, or expressed a wish to ban e.g.: caricatures of the prophet Mohammed. Fortunately, no one in this Chamber has listened to that. What I think is very worrying, however, is that the other day we could read that only three out of ten Nordics believe that it should be lawful to burn religious symbols. I must stress that also idiotic actions are actually protected by freedom of expression. But that's exactly what's the acidiest thing when we're met by people we don't like, or messages and attitudes we don't like -- that's when we get to test how strongly these freedoms stand. I think it is worth quoting Erik Stephansen in the Nettavisen, who pointed out that this was «surprisingly little, and what can we end it? Unfortunately, violence works». That is what I and the Advancement Party believe to be unacceptable. Violence is never good in response to opinions. I had hoped that this too would be mentioned in the statement – I am absolutely sure the minister agrees with me on this. And then I have a little heartache in the end: precisely because we have such a free and good press in this country that we have, it was a little disappointing to see how some people covered the riots in Sweden, where a Danish right-wing extremist was said to create chaos. You don't have to like his actions, but we have a responsibility to also cover this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1016	First, I would like to say that I share the views of the Council of State on free, editorial media as a prerequisite for freedom of expression and democracy. We are lucky to live in a country like Norway, where freedom of expression is strong and democracy is solid. It's not like that in the whole world, even in our neighbourhoods. That is why I support the decision not to censor Russia Today and Sputnik. The Minister for Culture announced in his statement that the NOU from the Freedom of Speech Commission will be presented in August this year. It will be exciting to learn new facts about how freedom of expression really exists in Norway and what challenges we face. I'm looking forward to a debate on that. We know that more and more news and topicality are being distributed digitally in different social media, and that we are living in a world with much faster and simpler responses. It also presents challenges of hate, hoarseness and bullying. Onlineness is a challenge for democracy, because it prevents anyone from participating in the debate. Unfortunately, I know more people who don't participate in politics or the social debate because of this. Here, both the major social media and the editorial media have an important role to play in balancing between moderating the comment fields without simultaneously affecting freedom of expression. It is important to be able to distinguish between statements and references. We share the government's wish that all groups in society have access to a good media offer. This requires, inter alia: paper newspapers are ensured distribution throughout the country on a daily basis. Paper mills are still the preferred platform for reading daily news. As the State Council of Trettebergstuen itself mentioned in the statement, paper subscribers are crucial for the economy of Norwegian media, but the distribution network is progressively weakened. For example, a newspaper like the Class Battle of Oslo, Stord, Orkanger and Harstad prints to ensure optimal distribution. Nevertheless, it is not possible to reach out with the newspaper on the day of all subscribers. The problems are particularly serious on the Helgeland coast, but there are also other black spots on the map, where it is not possible to reach out with a daily newspaper if you deliver the paper to the press after 8 p.m. 17. The problems are caused by the pressure on the economy of the newspapers' own distribution companies and by the conversion of the Post, which cut the load from five to two and a half days a week. Even with the exception of newspapers, the result is that there is a lower yield in the districts. Aeroplane departures that were cut under the pandemic, which have not started up again, are also a reason. I wonder what the Minister of Culture is thinking about this problem, and what she might do to ensure better distribution throughout the country. I want to address the challenges of the dramatic fall in advertising revenue for the editor-directed media. We see that an increasing share of advertising revenue goes to the big tech giants. It is good that users' incomes have gone up – that most Nordics are more willing to pay for content – but it compensates in a very close way for advertising revenue, and is a challenge that I wonder if we have instruments to slow down, or if there are other ways we can compensate the media, so that they also have a sustainable economy in the future. I think it was exciting to hear about the council's invitation to talks with the tech giants, and I'm excited about what it could lead to. A short time ago, I was in debate at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Local Radio Federation. They were naturally very busy still being able to send on the FM-band. That is why I am pleased that it is decided that today's concessions will continue for another period. However, several radio stations demonstrate that there are challenges with available frequencies and want access to a larger part of the FM band for good, continuous operation. There are many issues of media policy that we must continue to debate in the future. As far as the whole picture in Norway is concerned, I am pleased that we have so many solid, good media to ensure that we get good, verified news every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1033	I would like to thank the Committee for a very good debate so far. I agree with several of the Committee's speakers and representatives who in the debate have said and pointed out the fact that we are high on the index of those countries with a high degree of freedom of the press. Not least, in a recent survey, we could see that Norwegian media have a high level of trust from the Norwegian population, and that is good. But as the chairman of the committee also pointed out, it's not something we're going to adorn ourselves with. There's nothing we're going to use as a rest cushion, that's on the contrary something we're going to be proud of. But it's a call to continue to fight to preserve just the high degree of freedom of the press and the high level of trust that Norwegian media have. That's a problem we're serious about. The free media is threatened by many teams, which I also used to talk about. One thing is the big international technology giants who, on the one hand, make the media dependent on getting out their content on these platforms, but who largely censor and determine what content should be there. In addition, they make our media habits change. In particular, it is challenging that many children and young people — the younger part of the population — deal little with media other than just social media, with the incidence of echocambers that occur then. In addition, the free media and good journalistic work and editorial content are also constantly threatened by an increase in the spread of disinformation and false news — in addition to the challenge that free media face from the fact that these major technology giants eat of advertising revenue and the economic challenges it poses to our media houses. That's what we're going to fight together to preserve and fight against to find solutions. It is about our media being a prerequisite for freedom of expression and for democracy, and Norway is going to be a leading country and a clear voice to protect and promote these values. As explained in my presentation, several good initiatives are underway, both internationally, at EU and national level, where we are trying to address this issue. On Saturday, the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission agreed on the principles of the Digital Services Regulation, the Digital Services Act, DSA. Here, the EU has addressed some of the difficult challenges posed by global platforms, and the starting point is that what is illegal ‘offline’ should also be illegal ‘online’. The key here is now how the EU and national authorities will follow up legislation. It is important and worth noting, I think – only the deterrence effect that is now being allowed to impose fines of up to 6 p.m. of the global turnover of the companies. This is exciting, and the government is following closely the work and must be an active driver to ensure that the media have fair conditions of competition and freedom of the press is safeguarded. Our media are, as I said, the basis of freedom of expression and democracy, and media pluralism is therefore important. The high trust and the high quality of our media is something we have to fight to take care of. Therefore, it is also so important that there is good dialogue between those who challenge these good trusted media and the great technology giants. That is why I took the initiative for this first dialogue meeting, which is now being followed up. We hope it can get good things out of that dialogue. Then the media policy we have is a central tool to protect the free word. In the Hurdal platform, the government states that we must ensure freedom of expression through the free media, and there is a very important need for the conversion and strengthening of media policy and economic instruments. We're going to discuss that later this year, and I'm looking forward to that. Then comes the Freedom of Speech Commission. They are tasked to review and have an overall assessment of the condition of freedom of expression in Norway. It's going to be an exciting setting, coming in August of this year. I look forward to discussing it, debating it and also working with the Committee and the Council on finding good instruments, all of which we are all agreed on to do just to strengthen the free media, freedom of expression and democracy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1055	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation and the article today. In the last period, we spent a lot of time in this room designing the media policy for the years ahead. And one of the things that we were concerned about then, and that the Council of State has also been concerned about in the statement, is the uncertainty associated with advertising revenue. There are several answers on how to deal with it by working both internationally and nationally. But I have fallen a little into the report setting. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. It's interesting to see what you meant before, and what you mean now. Today’s government parties then proposed, as they also repeated in several debates in the election campaign, that they undertake different actions to be included in the government toolbox to strengthen the media industry in response to future challenges. Then my question to the Council of State is: have you started to look at the tools in this toolbox, which you were so concerned about in the last period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1065	There is no doubt that we have high ambitions on behalf of Norwegian media. It's basically about making sure that people of all ages, in every crick and hook of our country, have access to and can bring with them quality-proof, good journalism and have access to the free media. We're definitely in the process of evaluating what we can take care of, what tools, to take care of it. The four-year control signals are thus part of it. The work we are doing towards the EU, towards the Nordic Council, also linked to the tech giants, is also that. It's always like this, as I said in my statement too, that the media economy, although it's strengthened a little bit through the pandemic paradoxically, is extremely fragile. I can assure the representative Pettersen that we are constantly looking at the competitive situation of the media and are in dialogue with the media industry, and we are considering appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1074	Thanks for the answer. Now, in so far as the industry is asking for the work and progress of this toolbox, and in the last period, there were issues such as employers’ fees, tax deductions for parts of the industry and the kind of things that were the answers, but now they are. We can see that when the toolbox comes. In the same big message, the Workers' Party also proposed something that is really an even bigger theme, because the government was asked to do so. ‘Propose a new and more thorough media communication, with a robust review of overall objectives, key trends and trends, and a long-term strategy for a strong, good and diverse media sector and an informed and participating population’. In other words, the plan adopted by the Stortinget was not good enough with the Workers' Party's eyes at the time, and then the natural question is whether, in addition to the four-year steering signal – which is one part of what we decided – you have started a work to create a media message that satisfies what you were occupied with in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1086	Yes, it is quite right that at that time we thought in the opposition that the media message that was presented was not thorough enough. We just missed an assessment of the toolbox, the various grips that the Media Diversity Committee came up with at the time, which was slightly affected. It was put in a drawer. In addition, we also missed analyses of the major challenges that we are debating here today in the Chamber, for example. the impact of major take-off giants on Norwegian media, both content and market, and the major international challenges. It was not good enough when the message – as the previous government, as the representative’s party, presented – was dealt with. Now we have a new government. We are in intervention with these major issues, which we believe are important, and we are debating them in different ways, among others. in this paper here today, and we're working on it every day, but we're not going to bring our own, new media message in that area right now. But we're going to have the opportunity to discuss media policy in Stortinget often.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1091	It should be allowed to say its meaning, but when you start violating the religion of individuals, it's hate crime. These aren't my words. These are the words of the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the City of Stoves and Ap-politicians, Rashid Nawaz. He also wants to raise the issue of burning e.g. Religious symbols should be punished. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1102	It would have been tempting to just say ‘no’, but I will support why I do not agree with that. I mean, when someone burns a Qur'an, it's basically to count as an attack on religion and not on those who practice religion. It is not that religious criticism and blasphemy are prohibited in Norway. On the contrary. It's also an individual human right to get outside, and opinions can be and often are both offensive, provocative and promoting something that we totally disagree with. It also includes sharp religious criticism, even if it can provoke and hurt. So the answer to that is no, I do not agree that it should be banned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1107	I am very pleased with the response of the Council of State. And just to underline it, it's not just this government I've challenged on this, I've also challenged former cultural ministers and justice ministers on this issue. What worries me, however, is that you see a tendency towards more acceptance of violent riots on statements you don't like. I very much understand that much of this is, of course, the Minister of Justice who has to answer for it, but I want to challenge the Minister of Culture what we can do to perhaps convey the message better and get more attention around the democratic freedoms we have in Norway, so that we may perhaps avoid getting violent riots in the future when there are statements you don't like.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1114	I fully agree with the representative that violence is never the solution. There is no means of responding to statements that are either provocative or unlike. It is totally unacceptable and must not occur. But we see that, as the representative also says, that it sometimes does, and that's an unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1119	In my post instead, I mentioned the problem of getting daily newspapers distributed throughout the country and the problems with the economy of the newspaper distribution companies. Now I know that mail transport and air trips do not belong to the Ministry of Culture, but I would like to know if the Minister of Culture has any thoughts on how to help people across the country access daily paper newspapers?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1124	The representative is right that it is not under my responsibility, but it is most relevant to the media. And this, both the decline in the number of paper paper paper subscriptions and the changes in distribution systems, are things that directly interfere with the media's economy, and that have made that economy ever change and are vulnerable. We are following this very closely, and this is also part of what we are considering when we are going to change the media support systems, make them more robust and accurate, which we are going to come back to and debate later this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1129	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1135	I would also like to take the opportunity to say a few words about what the Council of State said in its posts today, exactly what goes on on the global technology giants. I also very much welcome initiatives, both with the European Union and with the Norwegian Government itself, which can be the subject of good debate and action here in the Grand Chamber. I look forward to those initiatives – when they are notified, and when they have to come. The new global technology giants have in many ways simplified our lives, opened up new opportunities to obtain information and lowered the threshold to express themselves. At the same time, there are several aspects of both Google, Apple, Meta and other technology giants that we have to follow closely, because the platforms have enabled the disinformation spread and illegal content to a massive extent. The public conversation is not served by an uncontrolled dissemination of illegal material, but it is also not served by the fact that the technology giants themselves moderate and eliminate so much content that freedom of expression is reduced more than necessary. In parallel with this, it is necessary to strike a balance between just freedom of expression and privacy, because privacy is also essential for example. shall have both the freedom to choose ways of communication and the freedom to express itself without, for example: threats. The revelations of Facebook alerts by Frances Haugen show that there are still challenges related to the algorithms that facilitate social media participation. Left is busy giving the users of platforms more opportunities to limit the way they share their data. I feel that this is a common ambition that has also been expressed in the design of the DMA. Here's a challenge from me to the Council of States: Since it will take time to integrate DMA into Norwegian legislation, I think Norway should use the space for action in the EEA Agreement to strengthen the privacy of Norwegian social media users. The left has also promoted a proposal for better privacy on social media. Algorithms and machine learning are an essential part of what constitutes social media platforms. Both parts ensure that the social media you use every day provides each of us with relevant and personal tailor-made content based on automated decisions. At the same time, there are challenges related to the use of algorithms and machine learning in private and public decision-making. The Left has therefore proposed that the government should establish its own algorithmic supervision to strengthen the public’s ability to ensure algorithmic decisions and that machine learning does not discriminate or violate Norwegian standards of good privacy. Finally, I just want to say that I am happy to hear that the government is following these dear EU initiatives closely. I wish the Council of State could also be in Brussels and vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1152	In the Oslo debate in Avisa Oslo, a mother from Stovner, FAU leader Nasim Khaliq, writes the following: "I believe actions such as burning the Qur'an should take place in certain places, for example outside the Storting, so that our community is not affected." I really wish I could receive every choran burning, so that young people who grow up in Norway don't feel stigmatized or hated because their faith and their religion are bored. It's hurt, it hurts, and I just want to express a very big understanding of it. If you feel that you are in a exposed position, choran burning is something that comes to the top of it. OsloMet presented this week a report that shows a significant increase in hate reports against our Muslim minority population. The opinions are many and come from a few. These statements do something about the tone of the societal debate and the community around it. These statements cause fear and divisions, and these statements are felt on the body by many of the Muslims, who are now telling of an increased concern for visiting their Godhouse, when organizations stand and demonstrate against it right outside. Nevertheless, Koran burning is permitted. I think that's right. It goes below what is freedom of speech in our country. They go under religious criticism, which all religions have to endure. But there is a difference between Islam criticism and Islam hatred. We all agree that a genuine freedom of expression is a prerequisite for an open and living democracy. Why, then, do we not recognise the responsibility we have when some groups disappear from this democracy? Everyone who defends freedom of expression also has a responsibility for those who do not dare or want to use freedom of expression, regardless of country, religion or culture. We have a responsibility, whether it's Islamists that restrict young girls, or outer right that restrict young AUFs. We have a responsibility for freedom of expression in its entirety. For a few years ago, the reports that told us who is most against using freedom of speech in our country, the world's best country: young girls with a minority background and Muslim girls with a hijab. Every time we talk about being the best country in the world, think a little bit about having groups in our society that don't dare say, mean and exercise their freedom of expression. This undermines democracy. And every time we say that choran burning is legal – and most of us mean it – you should also lift at least one finger to lift underrepresented groups within the freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1170	In my previous post, I put great emphasis on freedom of expression, because freedom of expression is one of the foundations of our democratic society, where there should be great ceiling height and one should tolerate a lot of disunity. It's part of the freedom of expression that we have in our society. But we also have an obligation to be safe to speak, and the authorities are responsible for providing protection when someone is threatened with freedom of speech. Threats and attacks on pressmen are also to be seen as an attack on freedom of expression. A strong democracy is the sign of a great degree of publicity and openness. But we often see a tendency towards an opinion climate that should upset us, where we know that many people experience hatred and anger when they speak. As the representative before me mentioned, there is a special group who refuses to participate in the public debate. When we know that people with a minority background, and especially young people, refuse to participate in the debate, it is a responsibility that we have to take the most seriously. It is our duty to ensure that freedom of expression is strong, but also the responsibility of expression that we ask people to take part in the public debate, because it is our responsibility that everyone should express themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1179	I just want to thank you once again for a good debate, where I understand that the Committee and the Stortinge agree on our objectives. We need to raise the issue of democracy and freedom of expression, and that is why we need the free, independent media. What made me take the floor now is the last speaker's post, which points out something extremely important. It is a major challenge today that very many people experience that the space for expression – not freedom of expression, it is strong in Norway, but the space for expression – is getting tighter and tighter. It is also, of course, linked to the blooming and use of the social media and the great tegigants, where the algorithms promote surfeits rather than ‘likes’ and content that creates fragmentation and polarization, and not to a large extent taking down false news and disinformation. It's a huge challenge. It's supposed to be allowed to express itself. There is no human right not to be violated and not provoked, but there is a limit around hate rings, and there is also a limit when it comes to netness. Combating networking, making young people in particular want and dare to express their opinion and participate in the public debate, whether online or elsewhere, is an important task for us politicians to provide. This is also why the fight against online crime, the fight against racism, the fight against Islamophobia and the fight against online safety of children and young people, are as important instruments to work with for this government as the more structural measures to ensure the framework conditions of free, editorial media.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1188	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1204	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1211	As the rapporteur, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a constructive approach to the matter and also thanking you for the six written hearings that have taken place. The Minister of Economic Affairs has also come up with his response and has cooperated with several departments to explain it. All parties – perhaps except one – seem to believe that the health industry is important. Then our paths are separated when we come to the concrete measures that proposers demand. For the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, the health industry is important. Health is a knowledge-intensive industry in growth, and as the Minister says in his letter on the matter: ‘Government’s overall business and innovation policy shall support enterprises that want to grow and we will be an active business partner.’ For our growing businesses, as for business, it is the sum of the framework conditions that are essential for development. Then it is a pleasure to record that the demand of the proposers already exists. There is cooperation at different levels, there are focus areas on research, there is a reduction in waiting time for authorisation and access to health data, and the TaxFUNN scheme is an easily accessible low-threshold business. Although we all feel that the health industry is important, I wonder a little bit about this Document 8 proposal coming now. As mentioned above, most of the measures left-wing demand already exists, and the tax FUNN scheme operates after the intention. Then it is a little special that the party that is behind that proposal, put in government and sat with the Minister of Industry until very recently. You can expect them to be aware of what their own colleague was doing. Is it such that knowledge is erased when you step out of government offices, or is it such that those in the previous government did not have an overview of what their own government was doing? Or is it – which I am most afraid of – an expression of a party that has a need for labelling, and not a need to further develop good and accurate policies for an important future industry? I would like to point out that the Workers' Party-Center Party government is working every day for change. Health is a future industry that can create new jobs, new economic growth and increase exports — and it is an industry with great potential. It's a potential this government has been working on ever since it took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1231	Norwegian health is an important and forward-looking industry in which Norway has good prospects for success. Right, it's good that the Left is impatient on the occasion of the case. We think it is very important that the public get on the road in different ways to contribute to recovery in an important industry, for example. through public procurement. We know it's being traded for over 600 billion. In total, the focus is on public procurement and innovative procurement in both municipalities, counties and states. We also experience that we have something to go on there. It's a little too easy for municipalities, county councils and state to do what you've always done, and choose what you know. By increasing public demand for innovative products, there will be a recovery in development. In addition, it helps to strengthen the culture of industrial development in health in different sectors. Because the public is professional and tidy as a purchaser, the risk of investing in innovation is also minimised for the different health industries. We need to access health data, and that it is simplified and becomes more effective. It could contribute to the development of medicinal products and medical technologies. In order to achieve this, the health analysis platform needs to be put in place. This is what we are going to do in the Right to see that the government is actually doing something about it, because we think it is preventing important new developments in the industry. The development of the health industry is important for many reasons, including: because it contributes to better health and care services. We know we have major challenges in the health sector in the coming years, and we need to work smarter and get big innovations in both medicine and technology to keep up with the challenges. Then to the proposals from the Left. The reason why we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 2, is that we think there is a good discussion in the Nordic Council of Ministers on Health Industries. As far as the TaxFUNN is concerned, we do not want to create any more arrangements until we know that the existing ones also work. The reason why we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 4, is that there are already good forums for cooperation today, among others. Health care21 Council, and we do not think we should set up new forums. Finally, as part of the proposal on health data, we are involved, because this is an important bottleneck that we must ensure that we remove as soon as possible, because it hampers development. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1246	The representative Guro Angell Gimse has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1251	At a time when very much natural enough is about energy security, the green shift, and of course also oil and gas, it's worth remembering that one of the other major societal challenges we're facing, both in Norway and largely in the Western world, is about demography. It's basically a good thing that we're getting older, but with old age, we also get diseases. The same is true of the development of wealth — with it also coming lifestyle diseases, which form an increasingly large part of the overall picture of the disease in Norway. I will give tribute to the Left for promoting this proposal and creating a debate on a very important topic. I think you can see from the right to the left in this room, maybe minus the party far left, that the state or the public alone can't solve all of these challenges. One thing is that we disagree with who is responsible for the treatment itself, for example. in hospitals, but this matter is more than that. For example, it acts. on research and development, on innovation, on drug development and on pharmaceutical production. This is a very capital-intensive industry, which is highly skilled, and which has great potential for, among other things. exports. What we have learned from this case is that several of the other Nordic countries are partly far ahead of us in Norway. Norway is in the back of the loop, in particular against Sweden, Denmark and Finland. They have several companies, more value creation, more exports and more research and development. The largest company in the Nordic region, Novo Nordisk in Denmark, is a pharmaceutical company. Then, through the written input to the Committee, we have become aware that one of the major problems here in Norway is the time use from the application to the authorisation and access to health data, which is crucial for the development of these companies. The previous speakers were on the health analysis platform, which is delayed, like some other major government ICT projects. It may not be a big surprise that it's been like that, but it's now anyway. Pending that platform to come into place, we think it's a good idea that the government is doing a job to get speed in this, and we will therefore notify that we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1266	Initially, I can reassure the case rapporteur that there is neither memory loss nor marking needs that lie behind Left's ambitions for an industry where we have the international opportunity to take a lead. There are ambitions that I would like to invite the rapporteur to share with us, because the back cover of the Left's proposal is two-part. We know we need to transform the economy into a green direction with more jobs in highly skilled and value-creating industries in order to have something to live off in the future. In addition, we know that in the future, public expenditure will increase faster than income as a result of an ageing population, and that the state will have to tighten public budgets in order to cover pension, health and care expenditure. Not only does an innovative and strong health industry contribute to jobs and growth in the economy, but it also provides an opportunity to improve the quality of life of people with care needs and reduce public expenditure through the use of new health technologies and new treatment methods. Therefore, we need a strong health care industry and to use the opportunities we have in Norway to facilitate the extraction of some of the potential that this industry has. We have organised a consultation with industry this spring and received two clear feedbacks: it needs to be easier and easier to use Norway’s world-leading health data, and cooperation between private and public authorities needs to improve. The fact that access to health data is subject to much slower procedures than in our neighbouring countries is currently a significant disincentive to competition for the health sector. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Green Party support us in the need for action to reduce the waiting time for approval and access to health data for private actors. It contributes to the growth, value creation and better treatment of patients with rare diagnosis. At the same time, there is another unison from the industry that the public and private sector should precisely cooperate better and that the State and the public have an important role to play in developing a domestic market for industrial development and innovative acquisitions. Norway has the opportunity to further develop a professionalised and sustainable domestic market and to strengthen the culture of industrial development in health in all sectors. The first customer is often crucial for health business companies. As a general rule, the first customer is a public operator, and it is essential that the public dare to seek innovative solutions, while acting as a professional and clear buyer. The industry has clearly shown that innovative public acquisitions through the pandemic have been lowered, and we expect that the public in the future will use acquisitions to stimulate the increased use of innovative solutions also in the health sector. I am pleased with the discussion we have had today, and I hope that in the future it can mean changes for the industry. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Left is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1281	The representative, Mr Almeland, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1286	This government has, as it is known, high ambitions on behalf of Norwegian industry. We are concerned that our business is knowledge-intensive, competitive and adaptable. The Norwegian health industry is such a knowledge-intensive industry in growth, and therefore, of course, I share the Bigton's ambitions for the health industry and not least that it should be attractive for international health professionals to establish, invest and drive and create values in Norway. The Coronapandemic has also shown us how vulnerable we are. In the Hurdal Platform, the government has also pointed out that the production of critically important medicinal products in Norway may be of importance. The Minister of Health and Health and I are working well together on the follow-up to this point, according to the recognition that in that case it will have to be done through cooperation with private, profitable actors. A commitment to the production of medicinal products in Norway is part of the government’s ambition to increase exports and value creation in the competitive and green sector. It is about increasing investment in the mainland industry and establishing profitable jobs across the country. If we do this in a good way, we can succeed in contributing to both health industry growth and health preparedness, as well as strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. The pandemic has also shown us that we are dependent on international cooperation, not least in terms of access to medicines. As I explained in my reply to Stortinget, we are now participating in a joint Nordic study on vaccine production. When this happens, it is natural for the government to see whether there is a need to further strengthen cooperation at Nordic level, which several representatives point to as important. This week, with a business delegation, we are going to Sweden on an official visit with the Crown Prince Couple. Health industry and Nordic cooperation will also be an important topic. So I noticed that more people point to the importance of access to health data for business. Work is in progress to facilitate access to these health data. The Minister of Health and Welfare has informed me that the work has not stopped, even though the health analysis platform has been suspended as a result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The previous government provided its own health nutrition message. This government is behind the ambitions of it and the message is followed up. The ambitions to achieve more and better cooperation between business and public health services are important, and the mission papers of regional health companies for 2022 underline that world-class health services are being developed through close cooperation with industry and academia, national and international. It is clear from my reply to Stortinget that the government is already following up on the most important points that the representatives raise. That doesn't mean we're in the targets in these areas. The government is impatient on behalf of the business community, not least on behalf of the health industry, and goes to work every day with an ambition to strengthen the value creation of Norwegian business. That's why we're taking these recordings further, and I want to thank the proposers especially for their commitment to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1303	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1321	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from a member of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker, Siv Mossleth, is the rapporteur on the matter. Siv Mossleth represents the Centre Party – and is not present in the Chamber. Then we proceed to the Council of State Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1330	If we are to succeed in resolving the climate and natural crisis, the economy needs to be made more renewable, more circular and more sustainable. The textile industry has a very large climate and environmental footprint. The current form of textile production, consumption and waste management needs to be made more sustainable. We have to go from a linear economy using and throwing into a circular economy where minimal resources go to gambling and end up as waste. We all have to take inwards that our high consumption of clothing and textiles is not sustainable. I am therefore very pleased that a total accumulation supports the important work being done, which will be done in the future to reduce the footprint of textiles at all stages. Textiles are high on the EU agenda. The European Commission presented its strategy for a sustainable and circular textile industry in March. The Commission proposes an ambitious policy where they will look at the life cycle of the textiles. This is important in Norwegian context because we have a small production of textiles, but a very high consumption. 80 pst. the environmental impact of a product is determined during the design phase. Many of the EU's proposals in the textile strategy will be followed up as early as 2022 and in 2023, such as: the proposal for a producer liability scheme and so-called eco-modulation, also known as eco-design. It is expected that before the summer of 2023, the European Commission will propose requirements for producer responsibility regimes for textiles with such eco-modulation. This will also apply to Norway, but countries — as in other areas — should be expected to have the opportunity to find the right facilities for such a scheme. I fully share the Committee's view that it is desirable to examine the producer responsibility regime for textiles in Norway. The Environment Directorate will shortly deliver its recommendations on how we can improve the existing producer liability regimes we have in Norway. This review will provide useful insight into the peculiarities we should take into account in the development of such a producer responsibility regime for textiles. The Environment Directorate has also consulted the EU textile strategy, and I look forward to receiving the input of relevant actors. I want us to have a textile industry where the amount of waste will be as small as possible. The arrangements we have where many places it is possible to deliver clothes to organizations like Fretex are helping to facilitate more reuse, but it is of course a very small part of the clothes that go in that direction today. Therefore, I would like to welcome the decision – which I understand to be unanimous – and see this as a clear signal to the industry that there are new times in the process. I have therefore invited the industry to a recording meeting in June to discuss how to do this better and faster with our textiles, and also challenge them in terms of what to do with the destruction of unsold goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1348	Now big things are happening to get a more sustainable textile industry, both in the EU and in Norway. I am very pleased that today's Right is getting an impact on two important proposals. One is a producer liability scheme, which I know the Council of State has assessed for a long time, but which I am pleased that the government has to take care of now. In today's vote, the Workers' Party and the Centre argue against a producer liability regime and rather for voluntary environmental agreements with the textile industry. However, as the Council of State also stresses, a producer responsibility regime is about to enter the EU. It should also come to Norway, for it is about making manufacturers responsible. Eco-modulated remuneration rates are a bit of innovation that will require a good investigation. My question to the Council of State is first of all how to proceed now to ensure that there is a good investigation, that it takes place quickly, and that there is no need to wait for the Environment Directorate's other investigations to get this work going.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1355	It's important both to investigate and to expedite quickly. It is important to have the best possible knowledge of how this can be done in the Norwegian context, and then, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde rightly points out, we get very good help from the fact that this is already happening in the EU. Norway is not just passive and is waiting for the further development of EU legislation; we are actively participating in very much of this work and strongly supporting the direction taken by the EU here. Here, as in many other fields, we see that the European Union's green giving and the European Union's ready for the 55-strategy are at the forefront. It combines climate considerations in terms of a more circular economy and sustainability. I'm going to follow this very carefully and make sure that we do what we're going to do in line with the decision the Stortinget is going to take today, and that, as I understand it, becomes a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1362	It is very good if the Workers' Party and the Centre have turned around and now are on the proposal from the Right about producer responsibility and an investigation of it. At least I'm very pleased, even if you argued the opposite in the setting. But leave it. I am also concerned about what is happening in the future, both in Norway and in the EU. One of the things that happens in the EU that I think Norway should perhaps be even more clear in the future is the internal debate on how to calculate the footprint of textile products. There is a lot of lobbying going on in Brussels, including: are controversial about how to assess durability. The signals we are receiving now indicate that natural fibres, such as cotton and wool, come out worse than for example. synthetic fibres in that classification. It is quite alarming, because what is driving the ‘fixed fashion’ is synthetic fibres. It's plastic types like polyester, and we know it's spreading microplastics. How is the Council of State going to follow this up? Should the Council of State be clear that the entire environmental burden should be included in that calculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1371	Once again, I fully agree with the question that you have to look at the entire environmental impact. The paradox that is well referred to by the representative of Tybring-Gjedde is that if you look only at circularity, plastic products will often have a high degree of circularity because they have taken plastic that may have been in bottles or packaging, and made polyester-based products. Then comes the problem at the other end, because when these clothes e.g. washed or – even worse – destroyed, the plastic will be returned to nature anyway. In this context, it can often be seen that clean natural fibres will be better during a life cycle. We can agree on this, but we need to document this through solid scientific research on what is best in what contexts. I have had a number of meetings with those who work with clothes and circularity, Frtex and others who work with this, and they often think that even in terms of duration, i.e. how long you can use a product, natural fibres will be the best starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1378	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that Norway should push this towards the EU, because it is one of the proposals that does not get a majority today. But I understand the Council of State so that Norway will work for it. There is another, rather long, comment in this position that does not get a majority either, but which I also hope the Council of State will nevertheless work with, and that is the concern some people have related to the sorting out requirement for textiles by 2025. It's very good that that requirement comes. We need better recycling solutions, better sorting solutions, but there is also concern that the requirement will ensure that reusable clothing is sent very quickly to the waste bin and possibly to recycling, instead of strengthening the reusable market. It is also a concern because today we do not have good sorting solutions that distinguish between textile waste and what may be reusable textiles. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council have any plans to maintain and strengthen the recycling market for textiles in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1387	I think the point number one in a circular economic chain is simply to use the product longer. For example: clothes, it may be that the clothes are fine, but they no longer fit the body of the one who had them before, or that the fashion has changed, and perhaps someone else will have them instead. It's an incredibly important part. What has the lowest environmental footprint is, of course, that you continue to use the product as a product before it goes to some kind of recycling. This will be part of the work we are now going to do, both in Norway and in interaction with the EU. How can you make sure that you take care of the product, i.e. the garment or the textile garment, for a longer time before it enters a circular chain? It'll definitely be part of it. The representative Tybring-Gjedde also points out quite correctly that those who work with just reuse of clothing would like to see that already at the sorting stage they were better able to distinguish between clothes that are intended to be used by others, and clothes that are almost considered as waste and then possibly into a circular economic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1394	In this field, which both Tybring-Gjedde and the Council of State point to, there is a lot going on within the EU, and those processes I expect the Council of State to follow very closely. We've affected this in the past as well. Norway has a real influence here. In textiles, there is also much happening in individual countries, both in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Sweden has tax incentives for repairs, including: What I'm asking is: is there any cooperation in this field, for example. within the Nordic Council of Ministers? Or do you look at the result also country by country, whether there is something we can learn from, where they can show that it gives a positive effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1402	Already on Monday and Tuesday next week, there is a meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers – the meeting of climate and environment ministers, a forum for which the representative Elvesuen knows well and for which we have the Presidency. There is just one of the items on the agenda how we can learn from each other about how we make our economy more sustainable, and at all events how the Nordics can take a special leading position together in the implementation of everything that is now happening in the EU green giving. That's 80 pst. Norwegian environmental rules come from the EU, and the EU saves us a terrible amount of work, because very much of this is the rules that we had come up with ourselves before or after that, but it is being done away with for us. What is our job is to make sure that we both follow it, affect where we have views, which we discussed with the representative Tybring-Gjedde about content, and of course it implements it in a way that is appropriate for Norway. When it's been a little bit less focused on this in Norway before, I think it's because we have a small clothing industry, but we have a very high consumption, and we're more aware of that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1409	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1414	Case No. 5 went extremely efficiently away today! As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its great commitment to this matter. It is good that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of a more sustainable and circular textile industry, and we are now debating a proposal from three representatives of the Right for a more sustainable and circular textile industry. During the examination of the matter, the Committee received a reply from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, with comments on the individual proposals contained in the draft representative. A written hearing on the matter has also been held. In this case, eight proposals from various minorities were put forward by the Committee and the Committee's recommendation for a decision consists of two proposals. In addition, a loose proposal has been put forward. I assume that the representatives who address the proposals will present these in their submissions. This was the details of the matter. Now I'm going to go to the political part of my post. The government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, are not part of the recommendation, because we perceive it as butter in a bottle – that is, completely unnecessary – to ask the government to do something it already does. I would like to make it clear that the Central Party and the Workers' Party also strongly support the government's work on a more sustainable textile industry, and we naturally vote in favour of the proposals. Fortunately, this case shows that it is a broad and good support from Stortinget to the work being done by the government. I have also noticed that the leader of sustainability, Dale, has shown that the government has invited dialogue with the industry to follow up the EU textile strategy. The workings represent several large clothes chains. The Joint Undertaking and the Norwegian Industry are also important players to engage in dialogue in this work. The Norwegian textile industry is getting rather small in global terms, but it is important, and it is very advanced in quality and sustainability. Tripartite cooperation is important in Norway, also here. There are also many other actors involved in sustainability, and this was evident during the consultation. The government takes responsibility, the EU takes responsibility, but consumer behaviour is also important. We have a responsibility ourselves for the sustainable textile industry. Today it is actually relevant to point to my dress. I think it's pretty neat, even though it's over 20 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1429	It is high time we took hold of and focused on the climate and environmental footprint of the textile industry. We cannot continue to see that the textile industry produces products that are not suitable for recycling or that are difficult to repair. The NRK case that tons of clothes are dumped in a desert in Chile is a terrifying example of what a major problem we are facing, and how urgent it is to tackle this problem. That is why I am pleased that we have an offensive climate and environment minister, who is impatient and has already started work to introduce further measures to create a more sustainable and circular textile industry. It is good that an overall Committee on Energy and the Environment shares this commitment. I come from a place where the textile industry was a big and important industry. With access to both power and wool, everything was conducive to large-scale textile production. My grandfather therefore went to Ålgård and got a job at DFU, the United Ullvare factories. At the beginning of the 1900s, the factory at Ålgård was one of the largest jobs in Rogaland, and people came from all over the country to get a job there. Now, I'm sure many people are wondering why I'm dragging this into this case. My point is that what a few generations ago was a large and important industry many places in our country, today must be said to be a relatively small industry. It is therefore of limited importance whether we are in Norway and adopt strict regulations alone. We have to work internationally. When we know that 80 pst. the environmental impact of a product is already determined in the design phase, actions aimed at precisely this stage will be the most effective and require international rules and standards at European and global level. Cooperation with the EU and other international forums is therefore crucial. There is already important work in progress, as mentioned earlier. The European Commission recently presented its strategy for the sustainable and circular textile industry. An ambitious policy is proposed where they will look at the life cycle of the textiles. I am pleased that the Council of States is clear that many of the EU's proposals in the textile strategy will be followed up as early as 2022 and 2023. The fact that so much work is already in progress, including proposals on product liability regimes for textiles, means that the proposal we are considering today is strictly unnecessary. The work that is being requested is already under way, but it also makes it unproblematic for us to vote in favour of the proposal to investigate a product liability regime for textiles and review the legislation and review changes to ensure that the clothing industry recycles more unsold textiles instead of destroying them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1442	Today we take a big step away from ‘fixed fashion’ also in Norway. It's an important environmental victory. I want to start by thanking all those who have made recordings and fought for this for a very long time. In January we could see terrible images from the desert in Chile, where there are 40,000 tons of used counterwear from Asia, Europe and the United States. The materials penetrate the ground and contaminate groundwater, and microplastics fly with the wind in all directions, including: to the sea. This is the result of ‘solid fashion’, huge amounts of cheap textiles. Fortunately, the environmental problems in the textile industry have come on the agenda. The EU recently launched its strategy. There are many important measures. There are ecodesign requirements so that clothes can last longer, be repaired and reused. It is tightening up greenwashing and prohibiting the clothing industry from destroying fully usable clothes. And there is a requirement for producer responsibility. These are important measures that take many of the basic challenges facing the industry seriously and, hopefully, will lead to a smaller amount of textiles being produced and sold in the EU. But the devil is in the details, and these measures need to be adapted to Norwegian conditions. I am concerned that Norway is at the front of some of these points and is not waiting for the EU. I am therefore very pleased that today's Right gets a majority for two important actions, and also that the Workers' Party and the Centre, a little surprising, turn the last little in the two proposals where they get a majority against themselves. I would probably wish they had also turned around in the other proposals, because then they could actually secure a majority for more action and a more ambitious policy, but that is the political game. It was said here that this is butter in bottle. It's not. In committee voting, the Workers' Party and the Centre argue for voluntary environmental agreements and for a producer liability scheme. Nor did the Council of State promise to investigate a producer liability scheme until now, because we get a majority for a very important act. The Council of State would also not review the legislation to ensure that unsold clothing is reused and not destroyed, but now the government must do the same. I'm glad, but this is really just the beginning, because there's a lot more things that have to go into place. In the course of three years, Norway shall have a system for sorting out all textiles from the residues in Norway. Then we need new recovery solutions. We need to have a new sorting system, and not least we need to avoid the requirement for source sorting that fully usable clothing becomes waste far earlier than they need, rather than being able to enter the reusable market. The last thing I want to stress, because there are many exciting new business models in the re-use market now, and they need to be strengthened and not weakened. Today we can rejoice. We have to avoid over-exploitation of our natural resources, and the starting shot is today for the clothing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1459	Will the President assume that the representative wishes to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1464	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1469	Then the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposals that the Right has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1474	Today I will do something I shall promise not to make a habit: I will boast of the Right. I think Right Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has done a solid job in this case. I want to stretch so far as to say that it has been annoyingly good work done by the representative. We see that it has become a – luckily – greater awareness of our clothing production. In many young people in particular, we see extensive changing of clothing today, ensuring that the clothes get a much longer life span than before. There are different schemes that now make this easy for people. Dress exchange days are also arranged around the country and the beach. There were a hundred days of changing clothes quite recently, where people can come up with clothes that are still fully usable, but which they themselves don't want to use for different reasons, and then get to swap them into other fully usable clothes that they want to wear. We get a majority today for some important proposals. We would also like to have a majority for a proposal that would have made it unprofitable for the clothing stores to throw clothes. Today it is actually more profitable for the clothing shops to throw clothes and have them destroyed – the clothes that are not sold – than for example. to give them to Frtex or other second-hand shops. There's something we have to look at in the future, make sure of it. Then SV will not support the solution of the MDG proposal on VAT exemption for repair of clothing. We want an investigation of what VAT exemption for repair will mean – we do not know today whether this is an effective measure. In Sweden, such a system does not necessarily have an increased repair of goods. I bring up the suggestions that SV is behind with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1487	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1492	Red will also praise the lot Right to propose a number of proposals to regulate the textile market. There is some unusual diet with both praise from Red and regulation from the Right, but it is good and necessary. The market is not working. We have an overproduction of cheap and poor clothes, while it is often expensive and difficult to take care of and extend the life of textiles. There are a number of measures that can and should be taken to change this, and it is primarily a political responsibility, not a personal responsibility for consumers. The reason why I want to stress it is not that I have anything against people taking their own action – on the contrary, it's quite great – but it's difficult, not to say impossible, all the time cynical marketing and raw capitalism dominates. Although it's a little bit on the side of the case, I also mention it here: Advertising works. If not, the clothing industry had not spent billions of billions telling people that they need new clothes to be happy. So I think, unfortunately, the reality is the opposite – this pressure helps many, not least those with bad advice, become unhappy. Today it may be cheaper to buy a new Hennes & Mauritz breeder than to buy the same Hernes & Mauritz breeder used at Frtex. It goes without saying that there is something raging wrong with the system, and then the responsibility cannot be shifted to people with common and bad advice that will make everyday life go up, at the same time as the owners of e.g. Her & Mauritz should not get away either. Then a grip is needed at the system level. There is a need for political action. Red is skeptical of some of the regulations that have come so far from the EU, where, for example: wool is not considered environmentally friendly, while the plastic comes out of it quite well. Then there are other things from the European Union that are good. The point is that Norway needs to take its own and preferably better steps to limit over-exploitation of textiles, as many of the proposals that Red also supports today, and which Red is involved in promoting, contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1506	The vote will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1518	The size is ready to go to voting, and we start with case no. 5, from Tuesday 26 April, on agenda No. 70.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1530	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Åse Kristin Ask Bakke on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to have good dialogue with sport to strengthen cooperation for a healthier sport and to contribute to the prevention of physical dissatisfaction and eating disorders.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1556	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a broad gender perspective with a focus on gender roles, norms and weaknesses in the mandate of the multidisciplinary, coordinating team of experts led by the Norwegian Sports Association and in the action plan for safer sport and prevention of physical and eating disorders in sport.’ The right, the Socialist Left, the Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1588	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1600	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1–4 and Case No. 14 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1612	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left the proposals No 2–5, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 6, by Andreas Shelg Unneland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Emma Georgina Lind on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. Seven from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 72 of the Law of the Court of Justice is replaced by the following: The King shall lay down the provisions of the Act by its date of entry into force.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1644	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make an explicit exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy in tax legislation for tax advice, and to make such a proposal in the context of an expected proposal for disclosure obligations for tax advice.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1661	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider the issue of external ownership of legal firms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1676	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 5, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 16 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall be replaced by the following: [[4]] In the event of appeals against acquittal, the Advocate General may only maintain the suspension if there are strong grounds for so doing. The decision shall in all cases be annulled by a judgment of the European Court of Justice.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The fifth paragraph of Section 20 of the Law Law shall be replaced by the following: Law firms may require the submission of an exhaustive police record, cf. [[5]] § 41 nr. 1, by lawyers' employees or other helpers. The Ministry may provide for the implementation of the provision in the first sentence, including the cases in which a police certificate may be required, the criminal offences to be recorded on the police certificate and the handling of police certificates submitted to the law firm.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Section 66 of the Law of the Court of Justice is replaced by the following: § 66 Freedom to provide legal assistance The person who will undertake legal assistance activities must be authorised as a lawyer under Section 4. [[1]] Legal aid activities are the acquisition or continuous provision of legal assistance. [[2]] From the first sentence of the first subparagraph, the following exceptions shall apply: 1st@item: inlistbox A person with a legal qualification or a master's degree in legal science, but not having a lawyer's permit, may provide legal assistance. 2nd@item: inlistbox The person authorised as a State-authorised auditor or registered as an auditor may assist in the preparation of tax notifications, tax complaints and other enquiries to the tax authorities. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Board of Supervisors may authorise the person having satisfactory training in specific fields of law to provide legal assistance in this field. Where there are specific reasons, the Board of Supervisors may authorise special legal aid measures. 4th@item: inlistbox Foreign lawyers authorised under Sections 8 and 9. The person providing legal assistance referred to in the second subparagraph, its employees and other auxiliary staff are obliged to maintain confidentiality with the unauthorised as to what they are informed in connection with the legal aid activity of any person about his personal, operational or business circumstances. [[3]] This does not apply if there is no legitimate interest in silence. [[4]] The person providing legal aid under the second subparagraph may not provide legal aid in court unless he has the right to be a procedural agent or defender under the law or under the special authorisation of the court in each case. [[5]] Legal aid may be provided by any person to the extent that legal aid is necessary to provide good and complete assistance in other activities. Such legal assistance may also be provided without connection to tasks of the principal activity. [[6]] The fourth paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis. Legal aid may also be provided by the State and the municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1738	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 16 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall be replaced by the following: The law enforcement authority may suspend a lawyer’s authorization if a lawyer is charged with a criminal offence and it must be assumed that the authorisation will be revoked under the first paragraph of Section 15 if the lawyer is found guilty. An authorisation may also be suspended if there are strong reasons why a suspension is necessary pending a final decision to revoke pursuant to paragraph 15. The assessment referred to in the first sentence shall pay particular attention to the nature, gravity and degree of suspicion of the action. The second sentence assessment shall focus on the consideration of clients. Paragraph 15, second paragraph, second sentence, third paragraph and fourth subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis in the event of suspension.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e1755	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e2989	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e2999	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, it was set
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3038	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Tor André Johnsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposal No 4, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left proposal No 6, by Andreas Shelg Unneland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue planning new Oslo prison on one of the alternative sites of Bredtvet outlined in the Report on Localisation Clearance New Oslo Prison of 31 January 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3068	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to return to Stortinget with its own case about the location of the new Oslo prison before final decision is taken.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3085	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to rest up existing Oslo prison pending a new prison.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3102	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reject the provisional plans for a new Oslo prison in Bredtvet.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that State Building re-evaluates the current site options for new Oslo prison in the light of a scaled-down option.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Bredtveit Women’s Prison to be rested pending a new prison.’ The Greens and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3132	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3140	The Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3159	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Sveinung Stensland on behalf of the Right proposal No 2, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the criminal law I In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment is amended as follows: Paragraph 44, fourth paragraph, the following second sentence is added: In the event of a particularly high recurrence risk of serious offences as referred to in Section 40, the court may decide that a new such case cannot be applied for until 3 years have elapsed. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3197	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to submit proposals to amend Section 44 of the Criminal Code in order to include an exception provision allowing the courts to restrict the right of the court to apply for parole each year in cases where there are low prospects of improvement in the judgment.» The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3214	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3222	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3243	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality on freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and on the current situation and achievement of the objectives of media policy 2022 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3283	The cancellation then goes back to the treatment of today's map and case no. 6 and the next speaker is Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3288	First: Thank you for many good articles on the matter of textiles before we went to the vote. This is a major and important matter, and I will also praise the Right who has taken it up, and it touches on all the major issues and problems we are facing, whether it be the climate crisis, the natural crisis and also the enormous pollution crisis that we are facing. After a few years ago we began to grab plastic, textiles are the next major area in which cooperation in Europe concentrates. This is one of the cores of getting to the circular economy we need, this goal of having a market economy within nature's resilience. Fortunately, the EU is in the driving seat, and in this area we are a member of the EU for all practical purposes. I am also pleased that the Council of State confirms how close the department is working towards these processes in the EU, because here we are really part of the drafting of directives. It is up to the EU to make its decisions that we must also have an impact on our objectives and be part of that development. Here you have to look at the whole value chain for the textiles and the use of clothing. What I wanted to point out is that it is also important that, once the EU has taken its decision, we are able to implement the decisions quickly in Norway, that we are not going to be hanging after. The best example I have, on which I have been, is the ban on disposable plastics that we were able to adopt in Norway on the same day that it was done in the EU. I think maybe this is more complicated, but at least it should be a goal. Since we are so close to the process, it should also be possible for us to make decisions quickly in Norway. Then I'm glad there's a two-majority. One is with producer responsibility. Hopefully, this will be a common European responsibility and objectives and policy, but it is also important that we can go ahead. The second is the reuse of unsold textiles. So I think it's important that we also keep the incentives for people to do things themselves all the time and not just follow the rules. So I'm concerned that, although we don't get a majority today, we continue to work on strengthening the Swan brand and the Eco-label schemes that we have. I also think it is important to look forward to what tax incentives and other incentives we can have to make it more attractive to repair. I would also like to say that I would like to support the Greens' loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3305	That the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde is often annoyingly good, is no news, and I would like to thank her for the work on this matter. An overall opposition today gives a clear marshalling earth to the government to address the huge environmental problems of the clothing industry. This has long been demanded by environmental organisations and industry, and now we are finally taking a step in the right direction. But there are still major challenges in the clothing industry that require us to do much, much more. Low-quality, low-quality clothing is rolled out to consumers and has created a crazy over-consumption. The list of environmental problems related to the production, use and waste of clothing is long. The Red Cross states that producing one pair of jeans requires about 7,500 liters of water. In addition, half a million tonnes of microfibre are released into the sea every year. And the greenhouse gas emissions from the clothing industry are now greater than the total emissions from international aircraft and ship traffic. At the top of this, the future in our hands has shown that more than half of the clothes coming to Norway are produced in countries that systematically violate labour rights. This is not acceptable at all. The revelations that it pays for the chains to throw clothes they can't sell are shocking. Here in Norway, most of us have far more clothes than we use, and a whole of five garments are thrown before they are used at all. We can't go on like that. Fortunately, more and more people, including in the clothing industry, want to take action, and many now choose to trade used rather than buy new ones. But even more people would choose environmentally friendly if we gave them the opportunity, and then we politicians have to set up, not only with demands, rules and charges, but also with juicy carrots. Responsibility for a responsible clothing industry is to be placed on the manufacturer, and we also need incentives that make it attractive for consumers to choose environmentally friendly. That is why the Greens will cut VAT for repair, fruit and greens and for public transport. In this case, the Green Party today promotes proposals to remove VAT on repairs of clothing and shoes, as well as that, together with SV, Red, Left and Christian People's Party, we promote proposals for measures that will make it more attractive to repair damaged textiles rather than buy new ones. I hope that several parties will support all the good proposals in this matter, which take us a step away from the use-and-cast society, and which can contribute to a more decent and sustainable clothing industry. I take this up with me the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3324	Then the representative Lan Marie Nguyen Berg brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3329	A few generations ago, a garment was so much worth it that it was listed in the shift after dead people, along with soil and garden, and was to be part of the heir settlement. As industrial developments in which production costs per unit have fallen and clothing has become cheaper, this has turned upside down. It has been very good for you to have a more reasonable dress, but now we are in a situation where we have to deal with this major problem of pollution. We've been caught in a global linear economic system and a market liberalism where the raw materials are fed into one end and the waste spills into the other. There has been a brutal race for margins where clothing, and for some other items of use, have become cheaper and cheaper at the cost of the environment, employment and quality. We use resources for more than two globes, and the OECD report on bearer power that came a few days ago says that recycling and land use are our biggest challenges when it comes to resilience in Norway. As with other products, in the design phase, it is often determined whether there is quality, whether the garment can be recycled and whether it contains environmentally harmful substances. Perhaps making demands on the environment and understanding these value chains can even lead to a new industrial production in Norway, such as the founders of Sunnmøre, Sykylven, eagerness, with 3D printing and textile 3D knitting. At least we need to figure out how to collect, sort, recycle and recycle clothes in a better way. I also think it would have a positive effect on your mental health that you can do something about this, because there are many who are concerned about the future because of the pollution. That is why we need to sort out a producer liability system. Dresses must be traceable, and we need to make it more attractive to repair than to buy new ones. Not least, we need to inform consumers about quality, so it's possible to know what a buyer is and whether the product contains pollutants. It's a big task to tackle this, but with good cooperation between countries, between nutrition and management, a few can do a lot. Good labelling and good information work are also important. Then we have to do it in a way that also makes sure that we take care of those who today live by producing clothes, and do not leave them in the stick.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3342	There were so many nice words here that I was almost touched where I was sitting in the hall. I don't know if you can enjoy praise from Red, SV and MDG every day, but today I am just doing it because it is a very important step to introduce producer responsibility. I just want to stress that I believe it is a cost-effective grip. It is very important for households and consumers, because the option for many of them would have been to pay a very expensive renovation fee, because by 2025 we will have to sort out all the textile waste. If producers do not take responsibility, consumers and households are in charge of the bill. Then I'm not so much concerned that it's going to be a distortion of competition, precisely because in the EU we're now looking at producer liability schemes in a lot of different countries. Some countries have also introduced this. I think that's a good tool. I am really taking the floor to comment on changes in the tax system – economic incentives for repair and other circular consumption patterns. I think it's very important. There's clearly something that needs to be considered in several areas, because we have a tax system that is designed for a fairly linear economy. The reason why we in the Right have hesitated to propose to go into proposals that introduce concrete changes now, or new investigations, is because we have a tax committee, the Torvik Committee, which is going through economic instruments, including the circular economy. I'm very excited about what the sample lands on, precisely because they have to see the whole of what can change. Because it's more important than making small changes that might get wrong instinctively. I will ask the Council of State in its last article to comment on how he intends to follow up this sample. The mandate of the committee is so broad that I hope that if the sample does not go deeper into part of the proposals that have been made on economic instruments, there is something that the Council of State can follow up immediately and, if necessary, ask for further investigations. Because there are again very many changes that are proposed, which I think are quite rational and logical, but where we need facts on the table before we adopt them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3351	I feel the need to join the ranks of the congratulations, I too, and say that it is very good that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has driven this matter forward. Although these are things the government both works on and wants to work with, and things that come from the EU, the fact is that there is unanimity in the hall for this voting, a very important signal to the industry. If someone thought you could hope for another government, and then you would get rid of these requirements, it's now dead. A total accumulation — all batches, from the Progress Party to the Red — is now introducing exceptionally strong measures to regulate an industry that has been quite unregulated until now. It's a brand day, and I think that's exactly what we're going to enjoy. The rapporteur for the political parties has made it clear that they are voting in favour of the two proposals which have a majority. I would also like to stress that several of the other things that have been raised, but that do not get a majority, are thematic that comes anyway. It's coming through the European Union. It's just the point here that we're talking about a type of product that is in any case circulating throughout the EEA area. It is therefore very meaningful that it is regulated in the EU, and that we, as the representative of Elvesuen, are heavily involved in influencing it. There are limits to what can be done in one country alone, but the power of the EU's green giving, and not least the importance of circular economy and getting toxic chemicals out of all the products we surround, including clothing, is an important part of this. That is why I am also pleased with the representative of Tybring-Gjedde who said that some measures that can both seem reasonable and perhaps actually make sense, such as changes to the VAT legislation on repairs and stuff like that, it is best not only to adopt the Stortinget without further delay. It is part of an overall tax system and has to do with both the circular economy in general and VAT policy in general. So these are issues that are definitely on the agenda. I can confirm that all of these issues will be included in a major work on how we can do about our economy and the European economy in which we are deeply integrated, from linear to circular. So this is the topic we're going to do more work on, and we're going to get back to Stortinget when we're going to implement a code that's now under construction in Stortinget. It includes producer responsibility, for which we are now all in favour. It's about how to facilitate more reuse. It goes on how to facilitate more repairs. And it's about how to further develop the eco-labelling schemes. At the Nordic meeting I mentioned instead, the head of the Swan brand will also be present to look at, for example: Nordic eco-labelling experience can contribute to the development of European rules. So there's a lot of pressure on this, and I'm very happy with the broad support today for the work the government is doing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3364	It is well time to start round a good debate about a sustainable and circular textile industry. Everyone who has listened to this debate is very aware that the will for improvements and changes is great in this Chamber. Proposal maker Tybring-Gjedde etc. Fortunately, it is very impatient, but if we see this in a slightly longer timeline, maybe the right-wing representatives could have been a little bit more prominent in the shoes earlier in the previous magnification period. In 2020, the Environment Directorate was commissioned to review and propose improvements in producer responsibility in Norway. It would have been possible to include in that mandate a possible new producer responsibility for textiles. But as a summary, we very much agree that textiles and clothing with quality are the most important things. Then comes repair, reuse and after each recovery through a good circular economy. I think we have had a good debate, and I want to commend the minister and the government for being impatient and acting wisely and in a way that makes Active and others want to be in dialogue with the government in an important matter. I think I'm stopping there, and I'm looking forward to changes in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3375	I almost feel I have to complain to the room that I came so late here. I thought I had pressed to ask for the word a little earlier. I would also like to thank you for your good contributions from the pulpit, and I would like to thank you for the work that the Council of State has been briefing on. I think it's very good. There is no doubt that a more sustainable textile industry is absolutely necessary, so I am very pleased with the work the government has been doing. There is one thing the strategy does not take inwards, and there are working conditions in parts of the textile industry. Workers, irrespective of their country and sector, are entitled to safe employment. I guess we've all seen some reports about how employees are doing in the clothing industry. The fashion houses used to have a couple of collections during the year, but now they have up to 16 collections in a year. In what is called ‘fixed fashion’ – now and then even ‘ultra solid fashion’ is used – it is that from the garment to the drawing board and to the shops, two weeks have passed. Prices are being pushed downwards due to a larger market and competition, and at the back there are broken rights. Openness about the factories, which we know many of our producers in Norway are focusing on, is one of the things that will clearly help us consumers to have a more conscious relationship with where we trade the clothing and where it is produced. I hope the Council of State remembers it when he is in dialogue with the EU, because this is also very much about sustainability. Finally, a little thing around that representative Tybring-Gjedde was inside in his line to the council that wool is not sustainable, but plastic is it. There were people who described this as a little ko-ko when it came – that was the Nation, I think – and I have to say I agree. I hope that the Council of State, when he travels to the EU and raises Norway's interests in this, remembers to take care of our wool.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3388	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3407	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3414	This matter we are dealing with today is in many ways a continuation of the debate on the electrification of the base, but then more in what way we can electrify out there on the base. As you know, Stortinget has taken advantage of the ETS and CO 2 tax to achieve the climate measurement on the cap. At the same time, Stortinget has reinforced the requirement for emission cut on the base, from 40 pst. to 50 pst. in 2030. Oil industry has always been very clear that it is not possible to measure itself without the use of power from land. In any case, the purchase of allowances and the purchase of CO 2 will provide the oil companies with an economic incentive to find solutions other than to buy allowances and to pay a fee in order to continue to release large amounts of CO 2, and major technological developments are taking place in the field. The oil company is today obliged to evaluate electrification in all new field developments. In Stortinget we have previously agreed, in Innst. 193 S for 2021-2022: ‘The government is asking for each ‘power-from-country’ project to be assessed separately and seen in the context of power availability and cost of action. New large power take-offs such as the electrification of petroleum installations with ‘power-from-country’ should be linked to areas where there is strong grid and good power supply.’;» This means that emission-reducing alternatives to power from land can be further updated by the power situation on land. It is a joint committee that refers to the consultation recordings, where it is pointed out that the industry has several good alternatives to power from land, such as: carbon capture and storage on existing platforms. Liquid gas power plants on dedicated CCS devices are also an alternative. Directly cooled sea winds are also a good alternative, or a supplement to power from land. In addition, there is a strong trend in this area. Gas power stations operating the oil platforms on a Norwegian base are the largest emission source in the Norwegian climate accounting system. Emissions from the base shall be halved by 2030 and shall be net zero by 2050, which is in line with the oil companies’ own ambitions. Then there is an error in the setting: the right should only be allowed to vote for proposal No. 1 and No 3 and not proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the case of proposal No: 1, we'll see that in the context of the comment. There is a joint committee which, in the comment, believes that the distribution requirements of local CCS on existing fields from a socio-economic perspective can be interesting. In the case of proposal No: 2, Right doesn't support that. We support proposal No. 3, which goes on with hybrid cables, which we think are important to get in place, and therefore we also support that proposal. Then I'll take up the suggestions that Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3455	The representative of Ove Trellevik has drawn up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3460	We have three proposals for consideration today that are about how we are going to achieve the climate targets on Norwegian soil, which is absolutely vital for us as a nation to meet our climate commitments. The working party is clear that we are going to develop – do not liquidate – the petroleum industry. It means to ensure that this industry is also transformed. Something else will mean a liquidation, among other things. because the will to invest on Norwegian pedestal is weakened. If we are to ensure a long-term life for the petroleum industry, what is the largest emission source in Norway's climate accounts, namely emissions from the gas power plants operating the oil platforms on the Norwegian base, must be cut. We're talking about halving emissions by 2030 and net zero by 2050. Therefore, the most relevant and important issues raised in the proposals we are dealing with are: The obligation to pay allowances and to pay CO 2 are the main means of reducing emissions on a Norwegian base. When the price of greenhouse gas emissions rises, it becomes relatively cheaper to invest in emissions reduction technologies. It gives companies strong self-interest in reducing emissions from production. In Norway’s climate agreement with the EU, the quota system is covered. The EU Commission is now proposing to reduce the number of allowances issued by 4.2 pst. per year compared to today's 2.2 pst. This gives strong incentives to companies, in addition to being required by legislation to assess alternative energy solutions – such as gas turbines with CO 2 management, power from land, sea winds or other solutions. The working party believes that it is in the dialogue and development of climate partnerships with industry that new means of electrification need to be explored. At present, the technology for CO 2 capture that is suitable for offshore use is under development and in an early phase. It will therefore be important for the development of new fields and, where appropriate, for the continued consideration of gas turbines with CO 2 management as an alternative zero emission solution. In the case of Southern North Sea II, we are clear that the first project will be linked to South Norway and will not contribute to increasing the export capacity of mainland Norway. The Government has announced that they will look at solutions for offshore wind grids for the remaining 1500 MW in the South North Sea that do not facilitate new inter-national connections. By 2050, Norwegian cap emissions will be net zero, and we will work systematically through climate partnership with the industry to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3489	The Workers' Party-Center Party government will develop the Norwegian petroleum industry, not liquidate it, but must do so in a way that meets our climate obligations. Then the emissions from the establishments on the base have to drop sharply. Our offshore oil and gas installations are today the deciduous largest emission source in Norway's climate accounts. The ambition is to halve emissions by 2030 and have net zero emissions by 2050, which is also in line with the industry's own ambition. Electrification is essential in order to achieve those objectives. The government is following it up in the Hurdal platform, but at the same time clarifies that sufficient renewable power is to be ensured for new and existing industries in the mainland and that the e electrification of the socket is to be done as far as possible with sea wind or other renewable power produced on the base. This does not mean that the government is opposed to other technologies, such as: CO 2 capture and storage on the base. As a nation, we already have experience from the Sleipner field, and with the existing existing instruments, operators in the industry should have every interest in considering the use of the solutions available. CO 2 capture and storage at the Sleipner platform does not capture all CO 2 correctly. Various technology suppliers and oil companies are therefore working to sharpen this and to create more efficient solutions. The representative of Trellevik mentioned, inter alia: liquid gas power plants with CCS technology, as one example. This work is in an early stage, and all technology is not necessarily mature yet. In addition, problems such as weight and space constraints exist on platforms and the costs associated with such technologies. The industry itself points to the possibility of using CO 2 capture and storage associated with oil and gas installations in several cases may be more reasonable than taking effect from land. Equinor investigates, inter alia: the possibility of CO 2 capture and storage on certain items in the Barents Sea. It shows that today’s instruments are working and that they are designed to develop, assess and, where appropriate, apply CCS in the fields where appropriate, independently of investigation requirements. Therefore, an investigation requirement, as proposed today, has a limited value in itself as long as the framework conditions otherwise exist to assess and test different technologies where appropriate and profitable. The government wants to develop a climate partnership with industry, and we are convinced that together we will manage to cut the greenhouse gas emissions on the base, so that we reach the targets we set for 2030 and 2050. Marine wind, CCS, other technologies and electrification will be crucial to achieving those objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3513	In the fight against the climate crisis, we need to use many instruments to reduce emissions. If we are to be able to meet Norway's obligations to cut emissions by 50-55 pst., registered to the UN, or 55 pst., as it says in the Hurdal platform, or 70 pst., which is SV's target, by 2030, we will not do anything but deal with the emissions from Norway's remote largest polluter, namely the oil companies. Emissions increased by 70-80 pst. since 1990, and it is the deciduous largest source of greenhouse gas emissions and hence Norway’s largest contribution to global warming today. It is then important to oblige oil companies to investigate the capture and storage of CO 2 from these emissions. It is well known that SV is opposed to new expansions on Norwegian base. We are opposed to new exploration activities and new production permits. Unfortunately, we see that there is still a majority in this Chamber in order to start up an oil-bonanza in some areas, and it is important that large-scale emission cuts are required from the projects that the majority wants to implement. These are also requirements that we believe can help stop some of the worst projects. I'll bring up the proposal that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3525	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken took up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3530	Carbon capture and storage must not become a sleeper cushion to avoid cutting emissions, even if it is useful and necessary for some activities, e.g. cement production or incineration. It may also be useful and necessary on existing fields on the base, but we have to be honest that there is still a lot that is uncertain about technology and that has not been tested on such a large scale or over such a long time. The problem with some of the proposals that we are debating today is that they are based on allowing new extractions in the future, which in turn contribute to fossil combustion and increased global emissions. In Red, we would like the debate to be more focused on increasing funding for specific plants, such as the cement factory of Norcem in Brevik and the waste incineration plant of Fortum on Klemetsrud in Oslo. Instead, we only talk about the socket, and we get a debate about not only the existing oil and gas fields, but also new ones. Unfortunately, there is an attempt from several batches to extend oil and gas production. This is how we end up with a climate policy that most of all resembles the Roman god Janus, with two faces turned in diametrically opposite directions – on the one hand ambitious climate targets and, on the other hand, massive contributions to greenhouse gas emissions globally. That's the explanation why we in Red are rather leaning towards a part of the proposals, even though the idea of existing fields in and on their own has something to do with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3537	Last speaker: I really see no contrast between carbon capture and storage on Norcem and these proposals, about carbon capture and storage on the base. This is about how we're going to achieve our climate goals, and that we're going to achieve them by 2030. The left has presented this because we believe that this technology – and that is a well-known Norwegian technology – is necessary to bring down emissions by 50 pst. on the base, and to enable us to reach 55 pst. reduction in Norway by 2030. It can be done on single platforms or in larger networks. That doesn't mean we're against power from land. We need power from countries, including in the petroleum sector. It's absolutely necessary to bring down emissions, just as we need to bet on sea wind to take its share. That's why we have also suggested that we need the hybrid cable that we've discussed in Stortinget several times. It's going to continue until we get it in place. It is necessary to achieve large enough sea-winding in the South of the North Sea and will be involved in driving technology development. In the case of liquid sea wind, we have the largest liquid sea wind project on Hywind Tampen, which is also linked to emissions in the petroleum sector. We can do more of that, and we have to bet on an increment measure. The reason why we have tabled this proposal is that there is also a conflict of strength from country to country. It's a conflict and a discussion about the powerful industry and the emission reductions we need. There may be conflicts about shore-side liner solutions and the connection to the base. In parts of the country, e.g. in Troms and Finnmark, when the electrification of Melkøya is done, there is little surplus left for new power from land projects in the north, without taking the whole profit. Today the emissions on the socket are 27 pst. of Norwegian emissions. Let's go down by 50 pst. So by 2030, which is absolutely necessary, we have to bring down 6.2 million tonnes. Unless there are new figures that have come to pass, we do not reach that goal – even with all the force of the land projects that have been adopted and planned. We need power from land, we need seawinds, we need island action, but we also need more carbon capture and storage projects. Finally, I would like to say that I am really satisfied both with the support we have on some proposals in this matter, and with the government's statement that they also open up power from land in the work they have up against the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3551	The government will further develop the Norwegian petroleum industry and thus facilitate employment, value creation and state revenues. In doing so, we will also contribute to an important work on European energy security. The greenhouse gas emissions shall be reduced and also in the case of petroleum production. I'm absolutely convinced that there's going to be a lot of different technologies being used to bring out the solution. According to the Oil Directorate's figures, emissions in 2025 will be about 24 pst. lower than in 2015. The main reason is increased operation with power from land. Both industry itself and Stortinget have set ambitious targets for emission reductions on Norwegian soil. The government's goal is that in cooperation with the industry we cut emissions from oil and gas production with 50 pst. by 2030 and to net zero by 2050. The main means of reducing emissions on the Norwegian base is the ETS obligation and the CO 2 tax. It's gonna cost you to get CO2 out. The high cost of emissions gives companies a strong self-interest in reducing emissions. These are the interests they have every day, all the time. It contributes to continuous improvement, and we know that it works. The high cost of emissions also gives companies incentives to deploy CO 2 capture and storage from offshore gas turbines where such a solution is technically feasible and can contribute to reasonable emission reductions. As part of the operation of the field, the holders of rights in the individual oil and gas fields will assess whether it is profitable to use CO 2 capture on the gas turbines. It is important to stress that, in the case of new major expansions, rightholders shall, in line with the legislation, consider alternative solutions for the energy supply to the field. This implies assessing all relevant solutions. The power of land, sea wind, gas turbines with the capture and storage of CO 2 or other solutions is therefore quite natural to be assessed. Different technology suppliers and oil companies are currently working on new and more compact solutions for CO 2 capture that may be suitable for offshore use. This work is still at an early stage. Today’s instruments and practices already facilitate the development, evaluation and, where appropriate, use of CO 2 capture and storage where appropriate. I think it's a wise approach to this matter. In the case of hybrid cables, the Government has decided that the power from 1500 MW from Südlige Nordsjö II should be transmitted in cable to the Norwegian mainland. I think that's a good support for the Norwegian power system. In the case of the second phase of the Southern North Sea II, which is also 1500 MW, the government will decide on how to connect it to the network after an investigation into different offshore wind power grid solutions and what effects this will have on the power system. This will also include, where appropriate, phase two of the South North Seas associated with it. The Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate shall carry out the investigation in cooperation with Statnett.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3592	The issue we are discussing today is the emissions from oil and gas production, but there are also large emissions from oil and gas production when this oil and gas are incinerated. On 22 December 2020, the Supreme Court issued a decision stating that there are not only the consequences of the emissions from the production to be assessed in the future but also the emissions from the consumption of oil and gas. Six months after the Supreme Court gave its judgment, the government authorised the expansion of the Breidablikk field. The climate impacts up to the 1.5-degree target were not assessed here. My question is, is it that the Supreme Court had not entered into force when the government dealt with the Breidablikk extension?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3599	After this government took over the government responsibility, we calculated the emission of combustion by the different permits that have been granted, and it is completely in line with what has been said that one should do. We follow up on the obligations and guidelines that apply to the investigative relationships to which we are going to relate in relation to the award of new concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3604	It is absolutely correct that it was the previous government that authorised the expansion of the Breidablikk field. Is it then such a way to interpret the Council's response that he believes that the previous government allowed the Breidablikk field on a false basis, and that they should have investigated the climate impact of burning this oil and gas in advance before the decision was taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3609	As I explained, we have now begun to calculate the emission impacts of the combustion phase in terms of oil and gas, and we believe that it is a proper follow-up, as this government has assessed it. How the previous government assessed its allocations and concessions must be close to history and based on the assessments that lie there. We have the intention to follow up very clearly the obligations that are incumbent upon us when we are to grant concessions. I am absolutely convinced that this debate will continue as well. What is important for me to stress is that the Storting has, through repeated decisions, said that we should facilitate petroleum activity and have a high activity on Norwegian base, and that Norwegian base should be attractive. We also follow that up and do not consider it a legal issue in the first place. We're following up on what the Storting has decided in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3616	Norwegian oil policy also has to deal with the Constitution and the Supreme Court. I also expect the Council of State to agree. Moreover, I do not think that I am getting an answer to my question, but I choose to interpret the Council of State to that he believes that there should have been climate assessments of the Breidablikk development in line with what the Supreme Court said in December 2020, before the permission was granted. If that interpretation is correct, the Council of State may correct me: Will the Council then take the initiative to re-treat it so that it can be brought into line with the Supreme Court and the Constitution of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3623	Of course, this government is dealing with the decisions taken by the court, and that is why I also say that we are investigating and calculating the consequences of the incineration of what comes from the permits we grant. We are not going to review the Breidablik permit again and believe it was dealt with by the previous government on the basis of the underlying assumptions, such as, among other things. was given by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3630	It is a very important question the representative Haltbrecken raises, but I have a question that is more related to this representative proposal and how we are going to bring down the emissions by 50 pst. from production by 2030. The government's party writes that in its climate agreement with the petroleum sector, they refer to CO 2 capture and storage as an option within this. My question is: although the main instrument is the quota price and the CO 2 price, there is nothing to say that you reach 50 pst. reduction unless you are willing to increase the fees enough to reach it. What is the plan to create so that we can ensure that the instruments are proportionate to the reductions we need to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3643	I don't think I'm going to completely foreshadow what such a plan will look like at last, but it's important that we manage, also for the legitimacy of Norwegian petroleum activities, to cut the emissions we're going to, by 2030 and get in the net zero situation by 2050. I think it'll be seen with different tools or technologies that are going to help bring out the solutions. A little bit out in the 2030s, I think floating sea winds will be a significant factor. It could also help support the already established Norwegian power system. Then we have to find sensible instruments that contribute to it. There is no doubt that the CO 2 price, the quota price and this with the CO 2 tax will be the main instrument for reducing emissions, but we will facilitate the use of both power-from-country solutions and CO 2 capture and storage projects related to the gas turbines and perhaps primarily to bet on liquid sea winds or sea winds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3659	Will the Storting properly be presented with a plan for what this calculation will look like and how we can achieve the goal, so that we don't just end up seeing the result of the sum of individual decisions in 2030? I'm absolutely sure that we're going to get to this, we're going to have to have a plan, like, developed with the industry, but it has to be a more concrete plan, so we know that the calculation is going up. Will the Storting be properly presented with such a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3665	I think it's wise to involve Stortinget in that discussion. When we are going to create instruments to cut greenhouse gas emissions, whether it is in the oil and gas sector, in the transport sector or in other areas, or when dealing with the energy message, I think that if we are to succeed in the future, we need to find broad, good solutions for the actions at the bottom, in order to develop the goals we set ourselves. There I really feel that the Storting also in this matter is very much on the way to agree on what a person wants to contribute. Different technologies will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions on Norwegian soil, and we must facilitate it as far as possible and ensure, as we do now, that companies are followed up through the permits they receive from new, larger projects – that they have explored different alternatives in relation to the energy needs of the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3672	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3702	It is a pleasure that a Joint Energy and Environment Committee and the Health and Care Committee recommended that Stortinget adopt the amendment of the Law on Genetic Engineering and consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation 2019/1381, etc. The proposal requests the consent of the Storting for the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee of 24 September 2021 to include the Transparency Regulation in the EEA Agreement. The Transparency Regulation strengthens the work of the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. It shall also contribute to greater transparency for the public in the assessments made. The Transparency Regulation provides for a number of improvements to the EFSA’s work and organisation. The administrative responsibilities of EFSA include issues relevant to the safety of the food and feed chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and/or the environment. The Transparency Regulation gives the public greater right of access to data submitted by the industry in the context of risk assessments of a product in the food chain. It imposes stricter objective and independence requirements for the studies assessed by EFSA, reinforces the possibility for EFSA to maintain a high level of scientific expertise and improve risk communication to consumers. The proposition, as proposed, will facilitate increased transparency. We believe that because, first of all, the provision is significantly more specific than before. It will make it easier for government to provide transparency. Secondly, it follows from the provision that only certain categories of information may be excluded. In addition, it is a condition that the information may be excluded only if it is demonstrated that transparency can damage the applicant’s interests materially. A large majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment expects the legislative changes to lead to greater transparency and there must be a very high threshold for data relating to sustainability, societal benefits and ethics to be excluded from transparency. A large majority also expect the legislative amendment to lead to increased transparency in the handling of GMOs applications, i.e. genetically modified organisms, and that it is important to facilitate a public debate related to applications for GMOs. I'm looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3713	The rapporteur from the Committee on Energy and the Environment has presented this matter in an exemplary way, so I will be brief on the way in which the Committee on Health and Safety deals with the same matter. The responsibilities of EFSA include issues that have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of the food and feed chain, animal health and welfare, plant health and the environment. The risk assessments of EFSA shall contribute to informed decision-making by the authorities on risk management. The Transparency Regulation has been reviewed in the Special Committee for Food on 10 September 2020 and has been assessed as relevant to the EEA and acceptable. In order for the Regulation to be binding on Norway, it is a prerequisite that it is formally incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The implementation of Norwegian law will result in changes to the food law laid down under the food law that have budgetary implications, and also require changes to the genetic engineering law § 12 on public health. The consent of the majority to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee is therefore necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. This matter is, as the President sees, up in the Health Committee and in the Energy and Environment Committee, and there has been no consultation of the Health and Care Committee on the matter. The main objective of the Transparency Regulation is to ensure increased transparency and sustainability in the risk analysis, to achieve better quality and to enhance the reliability of EFSA risk assessments, to improve risk communication and to improve governance of EFSA. This will ultimately benefit consumers. On this basis, the Committee endorses the inclusion of the Transparency Regulation in the EEA Agreement. The Committee is unanimous and the Foreign Affairs Committee has also joined the recommendation of the Health and Care Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3728	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3744	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to seven replies from members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3752	It is not every day that an overall committee stands behind a proposal for a representative. It is therefore important for me to say that there is an overall committee that supports the purpose of this proposal, which is to strengthen maternity care. But even if we agree on the vision, that doesn't mean that we agree on the way there or on the priorities. Let me make it clear that there is apostolic rebellion going through the country. This was not least seen in yesterday's demonstration in front of the Storting, where I have heard that more than 2,000 people participated. They demonstrated for a safer and better care and follow-up during pregnancy, during childbirth and during the maternity period. I have a very strong understanding of that. Their demands are clear: enough money, enough people, enough space – no matter where in the country it is. It's our job as politicians to follow up. Many of the representatives in this room today are going to point out that we have a birth care that is one of the best in the world, that it is safe. When the Right sat with the Minister of Health, it was also their mantra. The problem is that we are now building down maternity care. Food departments are centralised, and mother is sent home more and more early without the follow-up she needs at home being in place. It is not nice that women throughout the country protest and are concerned. Now it's urgent to build up those services. We need people at work. We need a work life that is possible, a work life that offers full and permanent jobs, and a tour that makes it possible to get it around. Then we have to do a completely different effort than what we see today, to facilitate and keep professionals. This is about enough money and a system that also takes care of those who are going to take care of us. The midwife association may indicate that their own studies show that more than half of the midwives have considered stopping due to the labour pressure. We have to take that seriously. We cannot train more midwives at the same time as we let midwives stop working and start trading – as another member of the committee told me – because it becomes too difficult to work. Many end up in the profession because they can't go home with a bad conscience. Despite quality requirements for safe births, specify more than 90 pst. by midwives that they are unable to meet the requirement of one-to-one care for women at birth. We also need to provide the necessary follow-up after birth. In several countries, there has been considerable concern that health care providers are planning to cut the number of care services offered. This is done without ensuring the necessary follow-up in the municipalities. In this position, there is an absolutely necessary majority to strengthen the follow-up. I'm glad. I am pleased that in this position there are a majority of several decisions that will strengthen the follow-up of mother after birth. With that I take up the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3771	Then the representative Marian Hussein has drawn up the proposals SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3776	It should be safe and safe to feed in Norway. It shall be safe to live with a newborn and to be in childbirth. Having children is for the most part a great joy, but it is also a lot of uncertainty. It can be very scary – having children and starting families, with all the questions that come along then, keeping up with the development, watching the body change, suddenly the body isn't entirely one's own anymore. These are things that follow all the way, not least after you have had a child. Maybe you're one of the too many people who develop a depression after you've had a baby. There are many challenges, and these are challenges most women who have had children know very well, but who are also well aware of because we are talking about it. We should talk more about it. Women's health must be given a greater place not only in the debate but in the priorities. The working party is concerned that we should have safe maternity care both in hospitals and in the municipalities throughout the country. It is therefore right and important that the government has taken several initiatives to ensure both a good follow-up of pregnant women and a safe care. Our country is very different. There's a lot of distances. There are some places where many children are born, and some places where few children are born, but you should have a good offer anyway. The government has announced that there will be an overall review of the offer. That work will include, among other things: include manning, follow-up, full-time positions and funding model. So there's going to be a whole thing that's going to see this together. Over eight years with the Solberg government, women's health has been on hold, it's been down priorities. And we'll see that from now on. Too many women who are now giving birth experience a bad offer, and they do not get enough follow-up or care they need. The situation under the pandemic has been worse, we're going to have to bring it with us. It is a structural problem, but it is also a matter of priorities. Therefore, it is so important that we also change funding, so that hospitals give higher priority to the provision of birth and maternity services. We also see this year that there are maternity wards that are going to have to close in the summer months in order to carry out vacations. It's not about having more or fewer births, it's about having too few people, and you have to go on vacation. The basic manning is not good enough for either gynecologists or midwives in Norwegian hospitals throughout the country. You haven't prioritised this high enough, and we see that the result of it, but we're going to turn it around. I'm looking forward to spending time together in this room as well. The most important resource we have is good professionals. A study was just mentioned showing that half of the midwives end due to high labour pressure and 90 pst. by midwives, they say they cannot meet the requirement of one-to-one care for women. It's serious. Education, recruitment and keeping professionals will be a priority in the future in the new course. Of course, the size may choose to legislate more rights and increase the appropriations, but if there are not enough qualified personnel, such as midwives and gynecologists, the services will not improve. That's why I think it's wrong to start by imposing more tasks on midwives all over the country, as it seems the majority in this case wants. There will be no less labour pressure on the few midwives who are about to be charged with more work by the Storting. The most important thing we can do is to train, recruit and keep enough professionals. The government has also commissioned hospitals to develop and put in place an overview of needs and analyses. It's going to be clear in the course of the year, and we're going to deal with it. We're going to have a good offer all over the country, and we're going to have to work all the time to get better. All the thousands of ladies we saw raise their voice yesterday, we'll listen to. The seven requirements that came, that's very wise. We're going to take them with us. With that, I will address the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3801	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3806	Women have been giving birth to children for thousands of years, and it's really, in all modesty, quite amazing what the female body is capable of doing. Still, birth is one of the most dangerous things a woman can do in life, and you're in a very vulnerable situation. When a child comes to the world, you also get a whole new mother and a whole new family. Throughout pregnancy and after birth, everything related to the baby is very well checked and taken care of. It's important, it's good, and it feels safe. Nevertheless, it may also feel a little strange that women who have passed through a birth do not get more follow-up than they get. But women and mothers are different. I can see very well how the desire for a physical therapy class for all mothers comes from – that as with the baby, women should also be checked to see what to do with divided stomach muscles, with pelvic problems, or with other things. But there are about 53,000 children born each year. Many women need follow-up, and of course you should get that, but there's also a lot of us that haven't needed it. My concern is that if we send 50,000 women to the physiotherapist without everyone needing that hour, it makes women who really need it stand in line, to their first hour and to their fifth or tenth hour if they need it. Under the Solberg government, we changed the rules so that you can go straight to the physiotherapist without reference, and you can of course go to the doctor to get referral and follow-up where you need it. Breast-feeding should be defined as necessary health care, and the Right also proposes this, but we believe that health centres and hospitals themselves need to ensure that they meet the requirements of the Mother-child-friendly standard and that employees are nurses. The right has made two new proposals that I'm glad it looks like we're getting a majority for in Stortinget. During the pandemic, the number of symptoms of birth depression increased sharply. Ten years ago, one in ten women had such symptoms. Under the pandemic, that number has increased to one of three. We need to do more to prevent and treat birth depression, and even though we have daily places and offers for mentally struggling adults, we are uncertain about what kind of offers can be offered to those mothers who get severe birth depression and who should be treated while they are with their child. Therefore, we ask the government to investigate whether such an offer should be put in place. It should be a matter of course that Mother may bring with her a support person whom she herself chooses, during pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth. I myself have what is called a corona baby, born under strict rules for the protection of infectious diseases in Rome's July 2020. I got to have a partner throughout my life and in the maternity ward, until everyone went home together when we were ready for it. But on the overtime check on Christmas Eve, I was all alone. It went well, but some of the point is that if it was not going well – if you were to be told that something is wrong – you should not get that message alone. You don't have to be nervous or grin alone either, and you're usually two about having children and two who are responsible. Everyone initially has the right to have a relative, and it was only to be lacking, but it became very clear during the pandemic that it has been too easy not to arrange for this, and this right has to be legalized for birthors. That will ensure the right majority. Finally, I would like to draw up home visits of midwives. It is a clear health professional recommendation that municipalities offer home visits within one week after birth. Nevertheless, only four out of ten are following this up. That should not be the case, and the Right shall also vote for the law of that right. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3825	The representative Sandra Bruflot has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3830	The philosopher and nurse Kari Martinsen's thinking has been important to us nurses. According to her, the relationship between man is the most important in caring, and that the good relationship is created by a common understanding between the nurse and the patient with regard to the patient's wishes. These encounters between people were one of the reasons why I chose the profession myself. The basis for the insurrection, for the involvement and for the demonstration that was just outside here yesterday, is just this. Barsel women want to be met with the needs and wishes they have, and that there is room and capacity for this. In a vulnerable situation, you want to be met where you are, and you want to meet your needs. I know there is nothing health professionals all over the country want more than just to do this. In Oslo, Lindesnes, Utsira and Vardø there are good people with a heart for the subject and for the patients – people who do their best every day. That's where the responsibility for us in this hall comes in. The trend of shorter and shorter hospital lay time leads to a response from professionals. They see that the offer is not good enough, and that complications are not discovered at the same time as before. The curfew at the hospital is not a hotel break. It's a time for professionals to follow up the midwife and the child and catch up on disease and complications early. Early discharges of midwives and their child will require a completely different coordination than it has been intended to do in the past. We have good services for women at all stages related to having children, but in recent years, the central and important professional environment and not least the midwives themselves have expressed the gradual weakening of services for women during pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth. We can't tolerate that. We in the Center Party have been on the barricades for this for many years. The struggle is about ensuring good supply in the future and ensuring that our skilled health professionals have the opportunity to meet patients with their needs and wishes. The central party has promised that this will be enhanced by a new government, and that the government has started with it. Before I mention what has been done and what is to be done, I would like to point out most strongly that it does not follow one ear with the suggestions that have been made today. Money for these measures will come through the state budget, and it had the Christian People's Party possibility just a few months ago. It wasn't done. It was also the previous government that took away the possibility of the partner to follow the pregnancy, the basis of infectious disease protection. So above what we've done and we're going to do: we need more people and more money. We have given a clear signal and means to reopen the maternity ward in Kristiansund, and I'm going there next week to get feedback on the work. She has to open. We have strengthened the economy of the municipalities to ensure supply where people live. We have given funds to several educational options for specialised nurses, including midwives. We have increased the capacity of nurses to study places, and we have allowed extra funds to go to health centres. The work of the Health Personnel Commission to train, maintain and recruit health professionals has started, and we have seen work being done on a trust reform, so that midwives get to work with patients instead of working on paper. However, the most important thing is to get a holistic overview of the provision of birth and maternity services. Here we will look at crewing, follow-up services, full-time settings for midwives and the funding model. The work, together with the other initiatives, takes care of the intentions behind the proposals. I look forward to improving the birth and maternity care of people throughout the country, no matter where they live, and will not give me until midwives are met and cared for as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3849	In this debate, at least to date, only women have spoken here. Then it's good that there's a man coming too, because I think the men are probably so busy about it. At least for those who are going to have children for the first time, there's one thing you're concerned about, and that's of course the security and security of the person you're very close to, and you're actually waiting for a child with. It was great to see the commitment that was on the outside here yesterday. It shows that it's pressurized. This is something that women are concerned about, but I also think it is important to point out that there are many men who are also very concerned about it. There is no doubt that maternity care in Norway needs to be strengthened. It is unbearable that many women in the districts are put in hotels or have to drive far to get to a food supply. We just can't have it like that. At the same time, there are no simple solutions to the problem. The most important thing we have to do is to increase the allocation to feeding rooms, to wards and to hospitals. At the same time, we need to recruit more nurses and midwives into the health sector. Midwives all over the country stand on every single day to receive children and to help women to give birth. They put down countless hours and a huge effort, but the problem is that we don't have any more of them. Food offers are closed because you cannot have enough health professionals to ensure proper operation. Then we politicians have to ask ourselves the question: how can we get more people into the health and care sector and make sure that we can have a strong offer across the country? For the Progress Party, the solution is clear: we need to provide better pay conditions, we need more places to study, and we need more places of practice, while strengthening hospital appropriations. That's exactly why in our alternative state budget we spent a lot of money to raise the salary of nurses and health professionals by 3 percentage points in addition to normal wage growth. For a midwife, that means a paycheck of about $15,000 a year. In addition, we propose to establish 2,500 new nursing places, and we propose to increase hospital appropriations by 3.2 billion. kr. It cuts my heart to see that women in Smøla, Halsa and Aura have a trip up to three hours to get to their maternity ward, because the food supply in Kristiansund is shut down. We just can't have it like that. I get a little frustrated when I see that the government is still struggling to get the offer in Kristiansund back in place. Then I heard that the previous speaker said you had to go up to the week and see. It's been quite many months since we decided that this was going to work, and you could have made sure to get even more progress. I also think that there are several good proposals that we will support, but as politicians we cannot believe that we are solving all problems by just attaching a number of things to rights. First, we have to make sure that the offer is in place, and then I hope that the parties will show greater willingness to deal with the next year's budget. Then I have to say that I react a little when the Workers' Party and the Centre promote the loose proposal that they are making now. I suspect that they really only later as if they cared about the matter, because they are down in Stortinget. In addition, the proposal is very little concrete. It doesn't keep up with plans and papers. We need resources, and we need bets. We are going to support proposal No. 1, and we make sure that there is a majority in favour of the proposal as well, which is that the Storting asks the government to propose to legislate on the right to have with the support person that Mother chooses, during pregnancy and in childbirth and in childbirth. That means that there is also a proposal that is now going to have a majority in this room, and I think many are concerned that it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3866	The demand for better maternity care has been raised by birthing women, their partners, midwives and support players. Yesterday the Barsel uprising stood in front of the Storting, today we make several good and important decisions that I am very pleased and proud of. It's a very important start to finally strengthen maternity care. The guidelines for maternity care state that the duration of hospitalisation is adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn and that the evaluation is carried out in consultation with the woman. At the same time, the new hospitals are built with fewer and fewer births because it is planned that healthy women should go home only hours after birth. We always hear stories about women who feel pressured to go home early. According to the guidelines, all should have visits to the home of a midwife within one week of birth. In 2021 it was just 40 pst. who got it. Many municipalities have no employed midwives. In the guidelines on maternity care, we can also read recommendations on good nursing guidance, conversations with doctors or midwives after birth and removal so that those who have given birth can rest, but in the newspapers and social media, we are constantly reading new stories about women who are travelling home because no one comes when they call for help, about women who are pressured to go home before breast-feeding is established, or they have not been informed about how they can feed their child. We hear more and more about the explosion of capacity. We hear that the midwives disappear from the hospitals because the framework is such that it is almost impossible to do their job sufficiently. In many places in the country, there are surveillance cases opened following alerts from just midwives. In other words, there is a big difference between maps and terrain in maternity care. So we can't be reassured that everything looks nice on the map. If we are to have any hope that this government will address the problems that the midwives and the long-term natives have been telling us, yelling and now roaring about, the Minister of Health must abandon the guidelines and start looking around the landscape. Then she'll see that the reality out there doesn't look like she and we all wish it did. Guidelines are obviously given too little weight. Then they have to be replaced with rights. The midwives have been alerting for many years, now also protesting birthing and their partners. The council points out that we lack midwives, and that's quite right, but educating more midwives won't solve the whole problem alone. We have to ask ourselves where it was of those we had, because the truth is that the midwives are fleeing from the hospitals because the work pressure is unacceptablely high. At the same time, several whole-private clinics are opening up midwife services. We lose midwives from public to private, available only to those who can afford it. Training more midwives to solve the crisis is like filling water in a bucket that leaks. Yes, we have to educate more, but we also have to close the hole by making hospitals a place where midwives can thrive, where they can feel that they are doing their job in a good way, where they have the framework to do a real job, and where they also have the opportunity to give a good offer to those who are going to feed, and to those who are being born. Intervention-led funding has been a disaster for birth and childbirth. We have a system that makes it unprofitable for health businesses to give birth health care priority. We have a funding system where care tasks, prevention and management of psychosocial issues are marginally spaced. Now we are waiting optimistically, but also impatiently, for the Hurdal platform's promises to be a policy that will be felt in all parts of maternity care. The signals we get from both the Labour Party and the Centre Party on the Chair today are good, and I hope it not only remains good signals, but that we can see strong bets already next year's budget. We lose midwives every day. We're born just once. Feeding is one of the most dangerous, toughest and most obscene women do. A bad birth experience and a bad maternity period cannot be reversed. Therefore, it is urgent to seize, and I hope that the government will not wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3888	We often hear that Norway is the safest country in the world to be born in. Hardly any country in the world has higher survival for mother and child. But birth is about much more than just surviving. Unfortunately, too many women experience birth as a trauma. They experience being overlooked, overheard and overrun when they are at their most vulnerable. New studies now show that as many as one in three infants show signs of depression. Another study shows that one in ten experienced poor treatment during birth, and that more than 34 pst. experienced poor care in the maternity ward. We traditionally have good maternity care in Norway, but the figures show that we need to improve. For too long it has dominated a position that as long as the child is healthy, you cannot complain, and for too long women have kept their mouths shut about their experiences. The consequences of this are serious. The fight for good maternity care is one of the most important women's political struggles in our time, and I would therefore like to extend a great deal of thanks to the proposers for addressing this matter here today. So I'm not going to talk so much longer. Since the Left is not represented in the Health and Welfare Committee, I would just like to conclude by drawing attention to the fact that the representatives of the Left will give their support to the Committee's recommendations, both I, II and III, and to the proposals No. 1 to 6, paragraphs 8, paragraph 9 and No 11 in the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3897	After hearing the debate so far, I'm actually a little sad. Norwegian women deserve more than the opposition and childbirth policy. I'll tell you a little bit about my own story. In 2007–2013, I was rapporteur in the municipality with the youngest population in the country. Then there was another government. The one who's sitting right now. Then the hospital's bedtime was suddenly reduced, and I, who was sitting with many women who came home, got it at a time when I could not change the municipal budget. That was the reality. But it also created an engagement with me for how difficult it was for a municipality to meet a decision in an enterprise. It also created an engagement when I came into the Storting, that we have to get a whole in this, and for my part, and for the Christian People's Party, it has been a long time thought. We have done something about health care professionals: during the period we were sitting on the tip, the municipalities got 1.3 billion. kr in earmarked funds for health care professionals. And to the representative of the Center Party, I would like to say: I hope she is visiting the education for midwives at the University of Stavanger, which is new, and which was established during this period, just to give opportunities to educate more. But that's not enough, because this is really about female health. That might be the point of women's lives where we have in common what is especially for women, very close, because there are only women who give birth. There are women who bring out the kids, and there are also women who experience the time afterwards. That's the most important part, I think, of female health. Yes, we could certainly have done even more in the previous government, but we did some, and I hope that the new government will actually follow up, because it deserves this field. I want to drag this field in a better direction, where we get a whole – from one knowing that one is pregnant, until one has born the child, come home and know that one is well established at home, and not least feel safe to be able to care for the new almost head of the house. Then these proposals that we have made have been important. One of the things I would like us to have a majority for today – because we get a majority for something, and then we get new proposals that came from the Right – is a competence center. It would have helped us to gain more competence, as midwives in the district, as we talked about, could be used to a place for questions, where the research had a central place, and where we could gain new knowledge and at the same time lead the knowledge out. Because that's how pregnancy and childbirth can bring lasting challenges, both physical and mental. I'm happy for what comes to birth depression. But it's also like this: I've born four kids myself. I think I'm kind of up like that, but someone sometimes thinks that it's in your hips, it's not that important -- so even if I should ask the doctor, I didn't, and even if I had the opportunity to go to a physiotherapist, I didn't. That's how I meet a lot of people, and that's how I met a lot of women outside here yesterday. That's why I wish they had been offered a physical therapy class, and rather say no, because it's part of the routine. Then I am very happy that the Progress Party says that they will also vote for it to be a right to have the partner with. Yeah, I see the government parties say that's the general rule. We've shut down the pandemic, and I'm not proud of that, but that's what happened. But it is not only then that women feel that they cannot have partners with them. For the woman's independent experience of when she is born, she may not decide for herself. So she may have to lie on a two-handed, alone, and the man or partner is sitting on the outside of the newspaper room that day – and the feeling for her is that she is in birth. So that's why this is incredibly important, that the woman feels that she's been cared for, from she gets pregnant and until she has had the baby.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3916	First, I would like to say thank you to the Christian People's Party, who promoted this important matter, and then I'll give thumbs up to the Barsel uprising, which had a great mark outside the Storting yesterday. It is strange that in 2022 we still have to fight for better maternity, maternity and maternity care, not only in the districts but also in the city – even in Oslo. The lack of these services is the reason why Finnmark voters protested at the last fall and voted Patient Focus, and that is the basis for me being here today. A birth should be a happy event, and we should really work to make it happen. Norway is a long-term country with considerable climatic differences. During the Stortingens Question Time on 30 March this year, the fire alarm went off. We all went out on the lion's tray in the interior. It was a bit housey, but the sun shone and the day was good. At the same time as the fire alarm went here, the storm swept through Finnmark. Airports and roads were closed. There was a race across the Sennaland crossing, where an ambulance car got stuck. Fortunately, there was no patient in the ambulance. Congratulations, because the ambulance could have been on its way from Kautokeino to Hammerfest with a midwife – 280 km and over four hours on unpredictable and collapsing winter roads in Finnmark. This is the reality of the day. All the fine words about equivalency that we've heard here today, I expect will also lead to Alta getting a maternity ward, because we're not going to make a difference to people, are we? Patient focus is, of course, in favour of all the proposals we ourselves are part of today. In addition, we are voting in favour of the Committee's position and for all minority proposals, but some of these I would like to say a few words about. Follow-up talk with midwife or obstetrician is proposed within three weeks of birth. It's important, but it's probably a little optimistic to imagine that a newly-baked mother with a baby of three weeks will travel four hours by bus or car from Kautokeino to Hammerfest Hospital or from Båtsfjord to the Church Hospital to talk to the midwife or maternity doctor. Maybe we need to have a system where professionals travel out. The follow-up service shall be safe for the bearer. Today, midwives are entitled to midwives if the journey is intended to last at least one and a half hours. In many district municipalities in Norway, travel time to pregnant women and giving birth is considerably longer. This applies, for example: seven out of ten women from the largest city of Finnmark, Alta, and women from Helgeland and Northern Moravia, who often travel without any accompanying service. An hour in a physiotherapist after birth is important. There is a need to ensure that there is no increase in the differences in the supply between the districts and the larger towns and cities. Maybe outpatient physiotherapists can be a solution for the districts. It's important that we think new, and that we think forward, for the benefit of midwives. Today's lack of midwives, nurses and doctors is not a new date. It's a development that has roots from decades ago. To get to all the described offers we have in our proposal today, today's government must therefore focus on training professionals, so that birth becomes a happy event for mother, child and the rest of the family. So we need more nurses, more midwives and more doctors. We in the Patient Focus are concerned that provisions adopted in the Storting must be implemented at the same time throughout Norway. It may be difficult to get the same offers in the districts as in the cities, but then we have to fine-tune the legislation and train enough midwives and enough nurses, so that all women in Norway are treated equally. Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3937	We have good maternity, maternity and maternity care in hospitals and in the municipalities of Norway. We're going to take care of it, and we're going to improve it, and we're going to address the challenges we're going to see. The government is therefore launching several initiatives to ensure the proper follow-up of pregnant women and the safe provision of maternity care throughout the country. We have announced in the government platform that work will be started on the overall provision of birth and maternity. The work will include, inter alia: include manning, follow-up, full-time positions and funding model. We will also consider whether the right to have a support person with them during pregnancy, childbirth and maternity should be clarified, and whether action is needed to make this right better known. The Health Personnel Commission set up by the Government shall contribute to an overall assessment of staff and competence needs by 2040. Already now, we are increasing the capacity for admission to nurse training corresponding to 500 places of study from the autumn of 2022. Training institutions shall, as far as possible, give priority to key continuing training for nurses, such as: training as a midwife. In 2022, the government granted a total of 64 million. to create 200 new training positions for nurses in hospitals, including midwife training. We also need to strengthen health centres and school health services through a stepping-up plan. That's 60 million. kr to midwives in municipalities in 2022. A good start to life is important for both mother, child and partner. I would like to stress that home visits by midwives are an important measure, although I do not think it is appropriate to regulate it in detail. There is a strong technical recommendation that this should be implemented. An increasing number of municipalities offer home visits, but unfortunately it is a challenge that we do not have enough midwives to allow everyone who wants it to have a home visit. We have to train more midwives to get to this, and we're doing that. Good follow-up before, during and after birth is important to prevent pregnancy and maternity depression. About one in ten women in Norway develop depressive symptoms associated with pregnancy or postpartum. However, although there are a number of effective treatments in the event of severe birth depression, further action may be needed, as the majority in the Committee advocates. We will examine whether there is a need to strengthen prevention and treatment in the event of birth depression of varying degrees. The government will take more steps to ensure a safe and good maternity and maternity care throughout the country. The new mental health escalation plan, which we are in the process of implementing, will cover both municipal services and the quality and capacity of specialist health services, and it will also deal with maternity and maternity issues. We have good maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway, and it's not a mantra, it's international statistics. We're going to take care of it, we're going to improve it, and we're going to address the challenges we're going to see. Government initiatives in this area will contribute to even better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3961	Despite the beautiful promises of the government representatives, the Labour Party and the Central Party fail on guard. Last week the news came that the clinic management in Ullevål Hospital closed down the ABC department, despite having mid-season mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summer mid-summers. Is the Council satisfied with the way in which the underlying agencies govern the provision of birth and maternity for women in the country, when they choose to close rather than stay open when employees also want to work for a difficult time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3966	The midwives affected by summer - related clinics receive a good supply of food. It is important not to produce this in a way that gives greater cause for concern. 120 women have had room at the ABC unit, and in the nine weeks it is closed this summer, they will be offered to be born in Ullevål Hospital. The capacity is demanding during the summer. We've seen that before. And our professionals also need vacations, especially this year – after two years of pandemic. They need it every year. And we need to ensure better how we plan the periods in which we have many births, while at the same time we have to give professionals what they have right by law and deserve, namely vacations when other people also have vacations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3973	The professionals are entitled to leave, and vacations are to be given. As the midwives in the department have said, they have good plans from the department for adequate staffing for the women to be born, and they have also provided holiday care and temporary workers. At the same time, you have a clinic management at Oslo University Hospital that makes it difficult for professionals to do their job. Is the Council satisfied that, despite the wishes of the professionals, management is going along with the plans and is shutting down even if the employees are willing to work this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3980	The management of the OUS is obliged to have close dialogue with the employees when they plan tournaments, and they have also had that in this round. This is important in order to be able to provide the supply of food to Norwegian women. It doesn't just apply to OUS. It's all about the food supply in the country. There is also a responsibility in the cooperative that is between directors and employees, which is well regulated by law. So here you've been talking and planning together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3985	In the context of the Oslo University Hospital relationship, there are departments that have difficulties recruiting professionals, who have difficulties in having enough full-time workers, and in keeping a stable staff group – as is the ABC department. That department is planned to cut out in New Oslo University Hospital. It can also be seen that the majority of landslides, which have been visited by several representatives, are in the country’s hospital. What are the plans of the Council of State to actually retain the elements that work, as the ABC department does, and to facilitate the hearing and seeing of midwives in their own way, and to strengthen midwifery departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e3992	Both I as the responsible state council and also this room have a responsibility to provide a good and sound food supply to all the country's midwives. At the ABC clinic, 120 women have been granted their wish to be born there this summer. They get an alternative at the Ullevål clinic during the summer months. I believe that as the responsible state council – and I see this also well anchored in the position that Stortinget is dealing with today – that all women should have a well-adapted and personalized food supply, a good follow-up and good care for childbirth. Last week I opened the new DMS in Brønnøysund. They've crashed a midwife's birthplace with a bathtub. And there was actually a birth while I was there – I didn't get to be on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4000	It is interesting to hear the representatives of the government, and not least the government parties in Stortinget, talk about everything to do under the Hurdal platform – this is important, and action will be taken here. But both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have cancelled and said that much of the wishes have to be cut out, or what has been said in the Hurdal platform to deliver. One such example is Kristiansund’s maternity ward. I'll come back to it again. I'm not going to surrender until the Council of State has made sure it opens, because it's important for all those who live over there. It must be a little awkward for the Council of States as when the budget was put forward, it must now be opened, so when the reality is that we are soon in May and there is still no food department open. It's important for a lot of women, and it's probably some of the background too much of the big commitment that's out there -- an outrage to actually get done with the obstetrics that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4007	This government is going to train, recruit and also work to keep midwives. We have already started our own work on maternity, maternity and maternity care. It's about staffing, it's about full-time positions, and it's about funding model. We'd like to get further, and it's almost tempting to challenge the representative Hoksrud on what he did when he sat in government, or what his party did in all the years they gave the majority to the government budget. The National Audit Office pointed out in 2019 that hospitals lacked both key staff, access to specialist nurses and a plan to ensure necessary staffing. Then the representative of the Hoksruds party had given his support to a total of six state budgets. I believe that we have already achieved 200 training positions for specialist nurses in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4012	I record that the council did not respond to the question, which was about Kristiansund and when we can expect the maternity ward at Kristiansund Hospital to be opened. It was a very clear, clear and simple question. When the Advance Party was part of the government, it was actually bet. A stepping-up plan for the training of health professionals was launched. And the Progress Party has also proposed more than 2,500 new places of study in our alternative budget for this year. Then the 200 to the government won't be very much to boast about, but I understand that the Council of State is most concerned about it, instead of solving the challenges for all those who are concerned that we should improve maternity care, for which there is a proposal, and for which there is a broad consensus. On some things, the government is now being overrun, and I am happy about that. But the Council of State should be rather concerned about implementing and looking at several of the proposals currently under consideration, for which it is now fortunate to be a majority. Is the Council of State going to implement the majority decisions that we are going to adopt?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4019	The food department in Kristiansund was closed when the Progress Party put in government because it was not professionally sound to keep the offer open any longer. This government will not advertise any reopening of the maternity ward in Kristiansund until it is professionally sound. It's about accessing absolutely necessary personnel over time, and we're working on that. It's about training more, it's about enabling the health business to acquire the skills they need, and it's about being able to finance in the short and long term an offer that needs to be there, both in calm times, when there are few births, and also being able to handle periods where there are many births.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4026	The working day of the members of staff of the maternity wards is demanding and burdensome. Yet they stretch far, and it makes many women have good birth experiences and a good birthtime. But too many people don't have it and don't get the help, the health care and the follow-up they need. The midwives have been warning of this for many years, with good reason. It's a huge responsibility they've taken. At the same time, the workload has caused very many midwives to stop. I think it is very nice to hear that the Minister of Health is talking about investing in the education of several midwives, but then my question is: what will the government do to keep both midwives and to get back the midwives who are already educated but no longer working as midwives in hospitals or in the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4031	To reduce the workload on the food departments – especially the largest, where the pressure on the midwives is very high – they need to have more colleagues. Another thing the Health Service Commission is looking at is whether we can more effectively share the positions between the local health service and the specialist health service. The labour pressure in a municipal midwifery and a midwifery on the food has different intensity and different workload. It could be an outsider for the midwives to be able to work both places, and it would also be beneficial for the midwives if they could meet midwives in the community health service, who also have experience in the maternity ward. That's one of the things we're looking at. It will require that you also have the organisations involved, but that's one of several things to keep the ones we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4038	I'm going to give the Council of State credit for increasing the number of educational places by 200, but if we think about the number of hospitals in our country and of different education, there are many jobs that have both 100 specialist nurses and many more midwives. My question is: When one says yes to educating more – I think that is good – has the Council thought about where we are going to recruit these? These are nurses who have been working for two to three years, they must have done so, and then they may have worked up loans because they have established themselves. How can they afford to take the training we need so badly — in view of both pay and securing the entire post afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4045	Training positions are such that you go and develop skills while working. Then it is the experienced colleagues, who have quite a lot to do before, who also have to take a thank-you to educate new colleagues. I should have liked to have started earlier. The National Audit Office's report of 2019 was a depressing reading. You haven't had enough focus on educating neither midwives nor other specialised nurses. Some of them have also gone into politics, so not all of us get back into service with the first. It's important that we have a hospital economy that makes it possible to employ them when they're done with the education. I fully agree with the representative of Olaug Bollestad in that, and I am going to work for that in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4050	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4057	The debate goes quite clearly towards the end, but I need to address some of the claims that have been made. First, I want to say that even though we have many challenges, we also have a lot to be proud of. It's very much that's good. There are a lot of professionals around the country doing everything they can to ensure that you have both a safe follow-up, that you get a good experience, and that you get good help afterwards. We're also going to take that with us when we talk about this. It's e.g. many lots which in the setting indicate that only four out of ten women were visited by a midwife within three days of their return from the hospital. Then we have to remember that there are numbers from 2020, a year that was largely characterized by shutdown and corona. The 2021s are happy, because they're going up. Then the follow-up is 55 p.m., and there were several births. So I think we're going to have some things going well too. But when there is an accusation of betrayal from the SV representative in this room, in a matter in which we are obviously quite agreed on the challenge, and we all have great ambitions for a solution, I have to say that the type of rhetoric I take from, because even if we have some disagreements in the matter, the government has already in a rather chaotic situation shown that one's ability to prioritize. And that's if you're able to prioritize, when you're doing it, for example. shall establish a budget that is significant. As the Minister of Health has pointed out, more than 200 teaching positions and 500 new places of study come in nurses. There has been a significant increase in hospital budgets. The municipal economy has also increased significantly, and one of the important things that has happened in the case of hospital transfers is that it is the basic allocation that is being increased. That's what makes you get more money for this kind of service. Then you show that you have to close the ABC clinic in Oslo for a few weeks. Then I just want to remind you that there are quite a number of people in this country who are used every year to the closure of the maternity ward, and then they don't have another offer in the same municipality. For example, in the area where I was born and raised, it's like the birth department in Harstad and Narvik are switching to being open. There is considerable distance between those hospitals and they cover a significant area. It's demanding for these women, because they have to travel far. They also have to travel far to get a visit. So I think we need to have a little perspective. You can think about the rhetoric yourself, but there's no betrayal from this government. It's the beginning of an important work that we're going to follow up, and I hope that in Stortingen we can work together on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4070	I record that the representative chooses to repeat the word ‘deficit’ and not ‘deficit’. When you're on guard, you have a responsibility, and when you don't have the ability to follow up the purposes and the beautiful promises you've made, you actually fail on promises. And yes – I’m excited about how many departments that have to stay closed this summer. We have been informed about the ABC department. I have sent a written question to the Council of State about how many departments are going to be closed, and the fact that very many departments have previously been closed does not mean that we are going to thank them. And when we get notices about midwives who actually want to work, as opposed to very many others who are looking forward to vacation in July, I'll say that here there's something that actually fails when we don't listen to employees. Then I register that it is not the first time the representative responds to the use of words, but then we disagree about it. Another point about ABC is that the representative and the Council of State were concerned that women have been informed. In fact, there are still women who have been given food in that department during the summer-related weeks, who have not been informed, and this creates more concern for many women who need security and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4082	I am grateful for this debate on an important matter, and I will promise the Council of State that I will follow the follow-up with the Argus eyes. I'm also very concerned that when we're recruiting people for this important midwifery, this is the people who have had practice as nurses. They will enter a full-time master's degree, a two-year master's degree with 40 weeks' practice. That's why I'm concerned about their terms, so that we actually get the best people to take the education. I believe that this field is extremely important also for women's health, so I hope that in the future we can be a little saved for position and opposition policies and can try to get something that is over time – which is overdue because Norwegian women deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4091	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4113	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4120	(The rapporteur: first, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. The imposition of an infringement fee was unanimously adopted during the previous government and the previous magnification. It came after the Riksrevision in 2015 pointed out that there was a need for several sanctions against doctors who violated the prescription scheme. The Court of Auditors considered, inter alia, that: that, from information and guidance on the one hand, to the loss of the right to practise for the sake of popular interest on the other hand was too great. We're serious about that. This case has subsequently led to considerable uncertainty, and it is a great deal about the established regulation on how this charging scheme should be practised. The rule came from the previous government. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health has shown some action and started a process to change regulations and guidelines. This will ensure that the law is not unfairly practiced. It is true, as the Minister of Health has made clear, that Helfo cannot skip steps in the pyramid of the instrument. It gives doctors and the population security and predictability. Anyway, it's important to say why this came into place. It came into place because, as I said before, there were things you had to take seriously. It's not about punishing doctors who make a mistake, it's about an opportunity to punish doctors who repeatedly over time do not comply with the instructions and instructions of the health authorities. It may not be everyday food, but it is a step in a list of measures. After there has been a lot of noise, a lot of uncertainty, there has been an action, there has been a strict start this year on this matter, it is good that the Medical Association is also pleased that the Health Minister has paused the scheme, and so a thorough work has been started on this scheme now. That's where we are, and that work I look forward to following on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4135	In the light of a review by the National Audit Office that the state’s spending on prescription medicines had doubled since 1995, a unanimous increase in 2019 decided that the wrong prescription of medicines on a blue prescription should be punished with fees. In the right we have a great deal of understanding that doctors feel that the fee rates for incorrect prescription are very demanding, especially at a time when there is a great deal of pressure on the prescribers already. And when doctors all over the country in the new year acted by failing to print medicines on the blue prescription to patients, we immediately asked the Minister of Health to engage in dialogue with the Medical Association, and the Minister of Health did. They also asked the Council of State to ensure that the fine system was suspended and that a reassessment of the case was carried out. To the right, it was totally unacceptable that we came into a situation where patients did not receive the necessary medication because the doctor did not dare to print medicines on blue prescription in fear of being held responsible and fined. In the right, it would not be right to support a change in the law through the present proposal for a representative. There is no doubt that the Stortinget unanimously adopted the amendment, despite the fact that the Medical Association also gave a critical opinion on the change at the time. We believe that the Council of State in its letter shows that she wants to follow up this demanding matter. We support that she will ensure that the law is not unfairly practiced, and that she will look at possible solutions that will take care of both the patients, the treatment providers and the safe management of the systems of popular fear. The right also supports the consideration of whether fines should be reduced, as signalled by the Council of State, and that it should be stipulated that Helfo should not be able to skip steps of the instrument pyramid. The right also supports the assessment of other forms of response that are more appropriate than the fee. It may be that the other parties in the debate will make a number that the Right could have secured a majority for a legislative change already now. To that I have three things to say. Firstly, proposals for regulatory changes and revised guidelines will be sent to the hearing and it will be useful to wait for this hearing and see what the government is doing before we decide on this matter. Secondly, the Health Directorate has withdrawn the circular so that the scheme is suspended. It ensures that patients do not now experience challenges in obtaining their legitimate prescription medicines. Thirdly, the Right will be open to support legislative changes following the implementation of the consultation round, if it proves appropriate. We expect the government to come to Stortinget, so that we can adopt any legislative changes after a new and thorough treatment after consultation. If we ensure the correct use of the bladder prescription system, we'll arrange for those who need it to get exactly the help they need. We ensure a fair and sustainable healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4150	The complexity of this matter comes on the basis of a series of reactions linked to the approval of the sitting Solberg government to amend the regulation on the measurement and payment of the infringement fee, which first entered into force in this new year. This was based on an aggregate increase which, in 2020, approved the legislative changes following a suspension by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, after the Riksrevisions stressed the need for several sanctions against lizards that broke the regulation. Paragraphs 25–6(a) of the Public Security Act provide for the imposition of such a criminal charge. The statutory provision states that it is the manager who can be charged the fee and that the department determines the debt requirement. After the large and violent reactions surrounding the introduction of the new regulatory areas, the Minister of Health and Health has warned that the government will look again at the health of these themes. The massive recordings that came, and the great concern of the Lege Association that this change will create great fear at the medical level for the printing of the blue recipe, are not good. I therefore agree with the Council of State’s good judgements – given to all the parties involved, and also to the Health and Welfare Committee, to the management – to this proposal for a representative. At the same time, the government is clear that if the moment is detected that speaks for and is important for the establishment of today's law code, you will look at this and possibly come back to the Stortinget for clarification. This is a particularly good approach, and I will follow this matter closely in the future. And I'm glad that a large majority in the committee likes this case and has the same attitude to the further work and does not support what is called representative proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4163	The intention to give the Health Directorate the opportunity to impose an infringement fee on the treating physician for negligent or intentional misprescription of bladder prescriptions is something that seems reasonable and appropriate to prevent abuse of the scheme. And yes, it was with the background of a report from the Riksrevision that a unanimous increase was in favour of this, but the massive reactions that have come from the Lege Association and are playing around the whole country suggest that this may not be the smartest thing you've ever done. I agree that this is important, and it's of course about ensuring that the tax money is well cared for and used, and that everyone in the blue prescription system gets the medicine they need. But it's probably a saying that there's a difference between cutting a little bit in the cheek and cutting off the entire chin -- and here it seems that it's the last line that the Health Directorate has applied to the doctors. When you propose to charge a fee of up to NOK 200,000 to make mistakes when you prescribe medicines and equipment via the blue prescription system, it becomes completely unreasonable, and it has led to an uprising among many doctors, who have said that they will not print medicines on the blue prescription, because errors could lead to enormous economic consequences for the individual doctor. These should be signals that both the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party took on and would therefore support a proposal that would help ensure that the doctors will continue to prescribe medications to the patients. The Advance Party agrees that if evidence is provided that doctors deliberately abuse the scheme, it should of course be dropped, but here we believe that the reaction form provided by the Health Directorate is both wrong and too strict. That is why we are also promoting proposals that prevent the imposition of an infringement fee for incorrect prescriptions now. I would therefore like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is advocating. I agree that it is good that the Council of States has so far chosen to wait a little, and that one should have a new round and go through this, but it would have been wiser to follow up the proposal that exists, and ensure that at least the debate that has been out there is stopped, and the concern that I still experience is there. Although I hear that the three previous speakers have argued that there is now peace among doctors and in the Lege Association, etc., it is probably not a unison opinion that that calm is as great as the three representatives mentioned have expressed here from the pulpit. I think it would make sense to vote in favour of the proposal that the minority is promoting. That is why I am pleased to be able to address that proposal, and I hope that there are some more people who will make sense and vote in favour of the proposal, so that there will be a majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4178	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4183	The Hurdal platform says: ‘The reform of confidence in the public sector shall restore confidence, time and power to those who constitute the first line and backbone of the welfare state, such as teachers, nurses, police officers and decision-makers. Trust reform means that the government will not initiate centralising reforms that create large units with long chains of responsibility from the decision maker to those in the classroom or in the hospital to carry out the job.» There is a dissonance between what the Workers' Party writes on the Hurdal platform and the Workers' Party that goes in to continue with the system of personal fines to doctors to make mistakes in the blue prescription. I would also like to quote the Medical Association, which says in an opinion that they believe that the implementation of this legislation is an expression of a lack of trust in the doctors, who have been given the task of managing the legislation on behalf of the authorities. A regulatory change, proposed by the government, will not remove personal fines in response. To that, we have to change the law, as we suggest. It is the principle of personal punishment that has to go away. Another principle is that it is permissible to make mistakes. SV was one of the parties that voted in favour of this regulation change in its time, but now says that we are turning around. I also refer to the hearing recordings from the Lion Chambers, who wrote: ‘We received several enquiries from our members during the action of the Medical Association, which would not prescribe blue prescriptions for doctors and specialist health services. [[...]] They use drugs that are very expensive, and for some families there will be a total of over 250,000 dollars per month. So I doubt that we will come closer to a trust reform with today's legislation, and I would encourage the representatives in this room to support our proposals for amendments to the People's Security Act § 25-6(a) to ensure that doctors cannot be charged an infringement fee for the incorrect prescription of blue prescriptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4202	The Blue Recipe Scheme is based on trust. If a patient has a claim to a medicine on blue prescription is in principle a relationship between the patient and Helfo. We have long had a code where the doctor makes this assessment on behalf of Helfo. Helfo saves a lot of time on it, and it's safe and easy for patients. The games have nothing to do with printing blue prescriptions where the criteria are not met. In 2015, the Riksrevision pointed out that the sanctions available for doctors who made mistakes were not used because they were perceived as being too strict. Other penalties were requested and the government’s response was to allow for the printing of infringement fees. It went through unanimously in the Health Committee and the Stortinget. It's not always that we understand all the consequences of the decisions we make. Then we have to do something to correct it when it becomes clear that it is going wrong, and that is the case with this case. When Helfo sent out a message to all doctors that they risk personal fines of up to NOK 200000 if they make mistakes with blue prescriptions, and also for minor errors can be punished with as much as from NOK 10 000 – NOK 50000, it became quite clear that this was the wrong way to go. We as magnification have both a responsibility and an opportunity to rectify when the consequences of the decisions we make are wrong or in a way that is going to go out on patients in particular, as it is in this case as well. Behind each prescribed blue prescription there is a complicated assessment. The doctor is personally responsible for the blue prescriptions they print, and they have also been able to rely on other doctors' assessments, but now it can be expensive. When doctors cannot take the risk, it is the patients who go beyond it, especially those who are outside the fixed medical system, and those who have complex conditions with multiple therapies. In other words, it would weaken the rights of those we want to take extra care of. Infringement fees would both threaten patients’ rights and increase the pressure on an already in crisis fixed medical system. The protests have come from many teams. The doctors themselves have gone to action, as we know, but the patient associations have also reacted with concern. The European Medical Association writes that they have not heard of anything similar before. With this proposal, we can correct the mistakes we have made and the undesirable consequences. I agree that it is good that the Minister of Health made sure that this was put on hold or paused, but it does not solve the problems, because the problems are still there, and the concerns are still great. That's why I hope we can have a majority for at least one of the proposals we're behind today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4217	As others have said from the pulpit today, it was a unanimous increase that decided in 2019 to allow the state to penalise certain individuals who print blue prescriptions on the wrong basis, with fines of up to NOK 213 000. The left was also one of those games. But I think we're going to be humble enough to see that when the effects aren't what we want, and the consequences are different than what we thought, it's wise to reconsider the situation, because that decision was a manifest error. That is why the Left also wants to rectify this and will vote in favour of the proposals from the minority. We already have a pressing fixed situation in Norway, and we need more fixed doctors. The legislative change with fines does not help in that situation. Rather, on the contrary, it may lead to more people refusing to obtain a permanent home, for fear of fines in the event of the smallest error. We can't have it like that. Determiners put their work into practice and make thorough professional assessments before they print out prescriptions to their patients. This legislation is a single great distrust of the decision-makers if we do not change it today, and it will not be left in the hands of the Left. We trust that the decision-makers use their professional judgement to provide the best possible treatment for their patients. I am also pleased that the Minister of Health has announced that she will take a look at this, but I notice that it took a nationwide determination to make the Council of State understand the seriousness, and even then it took time. Only when the opposition to the Storting began to put pressure on them did the Council of State warn. But we don't have to keep waiting. It is quite possible to decide on this now, and so the Left will vote for the proposals as they stand. It takes a lot of time to restore confidence in the doctors and start the job of solving the fixed crisis. Voting for these proposals will be an important first step.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4230	Infringement fee such as the possibility of sanctions against doctors who misuse the BIP came into force on 1 January 2022. The medical association and other actors are strongly critical of the scheme. The Bill on Infringement Fee was adopted after the Riksrevision in 2015 identified the need for multiple sanctions against doctors who breach the Blue Recipe Scheme. The reason was that there was too much tension from information and guidance to the loss of the right to practise on behalf of the people. Loss of the right to prescribe on a blue prescription is not used as a sanction because it also has implications for the right to make medical statements. The fee scheme shall apply irrespective of the position of the staff members. I am concerned that the scheme is not being unfairly practised and creates more difficult working conditions for the permanent staff, and have listened to the criticism that has come, against a regulation that had been made before I joined the department. We are now looking at possible solutions that take care of the patients, the patients and the safe management of the resources of the population. I would like to stress that the Health Directorate's Guidelines for Measurement have been withdrawn, and doctors will not be charged an infringement fee under today's legislation. The Executive Board shall draw up consultation notes with proposals for amendments. Helfo’s instruments range from information and guidance to the loss of the right to practise for the sake of public opinion and police reports. Helfo is the judge who assesses what is the correct form of reaction. I believe, in any case, that it should be stipulated that Helfo cannot skip steps in the instrument pyramid, unless there are particular reasons. I would like to assess whether a more appropriate form of reaction can be a temporary suspension of the right to prescribe on a blue prescription — in general or for specific groups of medicines. The Executive Board's proposal for amendments shall be submitted to the hearing in the autumn of 2022. If there are moments that matter to the law, we're going to evaluate them. I will come back to Stortinget if Stortinget should take a decision on the matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4255	A regulation proposed by the government will not remove personal fines in response. There's got to be a change in the law. It is the principle of personal fines for public servants that must be removed. As the Council of State does not want to remove this form of reaction – yes, I record that it has been withdrawn, but it is still there – I would like to ask the Council of State: which public servants are we going to fine next time? Is it the Nav employees who give too much money because they have used discretion and understood e.g. social aid decisions, where to give more to living?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4260	I think it is a bad solution that the representative Hussein says what I mean. It's going to be wrong, it's just not going to be right. We send this out to the hearing, and we are also ready to present the matter again to Stortinget if it is such that the Storting should decide on new legal remedies. For example, the Medical Association believes that: that a temporary suspension of the right to prescribe on a blue prescription, either in general or for specific groups of medicinal products, is a more appropriate response than a fee. I'll take a closer look at that. I do not know where the representative Hussein has these statements, but it may be an advantage if she has control of her own statements and not of the Council of State, because they are thus referred to as errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4265	I register that the Council of State believes that I am wrong about a lot of things, and I am not the one who thinks it is difficult to say that I was wrong, especially in this case. We have a total mass that made a decision that was wrong, and it's important that we correct it. At the same time, I asked the Council of State whether she believes that the principle that government employees who manage public funds should receive personal fines is a proper response pattern, and where this will end. We know that in countries like the United States, for example, there is a risk. to be sued, that there is an instrument when doctors do wrong. I don't want us to get there that our society is built on mistrust. We should build a society based on trust in professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4270	The question may have been a little out of the question, but the Council of State can answer if she finds it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4275	The representative Hussein asked me which other occupational groups in the welfare state I wanted to fine. I have no one I want to punish.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4302	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4309	I think everyone can agree that Norwegian health services should be based on openness and trust. Every single patient should be seen, and the healthcare service should meet patients with respect. The government has a prop. 57 L for 2021-2022 submitted proposals for several changes to the health and care legislation aiming at a more efficient and prudent supervision of Norwegian health services. The purpose of the supervision of healthcare services is to strengthen and ensure safety and quality as well as trust from the citizens of healthcare professionals and services. This is set out in the fore-end paragraph of the Health Care Act. I would like to thank the Committee for its work on this matter and for the input it has received from various organisations. With the exception of the proposed amendment to the patient and user law law law § 7-4a, second paragraph, and new § 3-7, the recommendations in the setting are made by a joint committee. I'm assuming that the parties that want to highlight the inequality are doing just that. The changes proposed in the Patient and User Rights Act § 7-4a will give the State administrator greater opportunity to prioritize and assess and monitor the follow-up of requests for possible breach of obligations by the supervisory authorities. Although some members of the Health and Care Committee in the configuration state that they are concerned that prioritisation will weaken supervisory powers, I would remind you that the proposal contains an important element: if there is reason to believe that there is a danger to patients or users, the administrator shall always investigate matters. The government also proposes clarification that health care activities have an obligation to respond to requests from patients, users and relatives for quality and patient safety. The Committee believes it is important that health services receive feedback from users and relatives, so that unwanted events can be followed up, and that one can clarify misunderstandings, improve communication and restore trust. Furthermore, there is a joint committee which supports the government’s proposal to lift the ‘warning’ response in the Health Care Act and introduce ‘professional imposition’ as a new form of reaction. Furthermore, a change to the Health Care Professional Act on Suspension is proposed. The proposal put forward by a Joint Committee deals with the limitation of the suspension of access to certain tasks by State health authorities rather than the suspension of any right to practise the profession. I am very confident that these changes will make our health and care services even better and create more trust between service providers, service recipients and relatives, and provide it with the advice of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4328	It is important that the means of dealing with serious incidents in healthcare are appropriate. It is both about the care of healthcare professionals and patients, and it is about basic patient safety. For here we are really talking about the management of the fundamentals of our health and care services, namely the trust of the people, patients and relatives in the vital service of which we are so proud in this country. To achieve that, we need an even more effective and effective supervision. It is precisely the aim of this proposition and the proposed legislative changes. Centrally, it is to shorten the time between the occurrence of an incident involving a breach of health legislation and rapid follow-up and learning to prevent recurrence of the breach. It is also about maintaining trust, and it is about ensuring patient safety. Now that the State administrator and the State Health Authority are given a greater opportunity to give priority to supervision, it is also about working more effectively. It is also important to note, as the representative before me said, that patient safety concerns should always be investigated. It's important that no one is in doubt about it. It is also safe to have an obligation to respond to requests from patients, users and relatives on quality and patient safety that are clarified in this proposition. I think there are too many of us who have experienced, or at least have heard of, people who have not received answers to their enquiries. Now it has to be solved. It is also vital for confidence that they receive answers to their enquiries. It is wise to make changes to what has not worked well enough. Giving a warning has an insecure effect. That is why it is good that the government now undertakes to replace this with a professional directive and the possibility of more follow-up of health professionals, and that a person is required to receive guidance or to implement other measures of competence where necessary. It's basically about improving our services. Then, of course, it should be stronger when it comes to serious breaches, such as the restriction of authorization and the restriction of access to certain tasks. We must never forget that what we're talking about here is people who treat people who can actually die from what they do, and then there must be the possibility of stronger lye and powerful instruments if there is a need for it. I am pleased that the government in this proposition announces that it will initiate investigation work related to other aspects of the oversight activity. I can promise the Council of State that we will follow closely. I look forward to a good code that ensures the good services and that we still have high confidence in our services in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4343	Patient safety and quality in healthcare are important for the Right. A prerequisite for this is that the patient’s needs are always put first, and that regular and good supervision of the healthcare service is carried out on patient safety and quality. It is also important to follow-up supervision and to have consequences, so that healthcare is better and safer for both patients, relatives and health professionals. The bill we are dealing with today comes because questions have been raised about the current regulatory regulation of supervision and the administrative responses to health professionals adequately contribute to the achievement of the objective of patient safety, quality and trust in health and care services. It also applies to the practice of legislation. We know that the supervisory process is long and that the practice of this varies between the different state administrators. We also know that supervisory activity, prioritisation of cases, the application of justice and the use of resources do not always make the most of their effectiveness in achieving the objective of patient safety, quality and trust in healthcare. Long-term treatment, as is the case today, involves an increased burden on health professionals, patients and relatives in the various cases. We have to do something about that. Current legislation provides little room for prioritisation and choice of procedures for responding to requests for assessment of possible breaches of obligations. Surveillance reports also show that many establishments where offences have been reported do not quickly implement the measures required to bring about the necessary changes. Right-wing support for all proposed changes to the Health Personnel Act and the Patient and User Rights Act, including: the new response to professional referrals to healthcare professionals and clarification in the law that healthcare establishments have obligations to respond to enquiries from patients, users and related patients on quality and patient safety. The proposal to give state administrators greater opportunity to prioritize and assess whether and how requests are to be followed up by supervisory authorities has produced responses, including the consultation response from, among others. The Cancer Association shows. However, it is important, as some have also pointed out during this debate, to say that if there is reason to believe that there is a risk to patient and user safety, the State Manager will always investigate the situation. It also clarifies the ministry in its letter. To the right, the proposals for changes to the Health Care Professional Act and the Patient and User Rights Act will help to enhance patient safety and quality and trust in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4358	Trust and good health care are incredibly important for the population. I feel that all the parties agree that we're going to go in for these changes that lie here, and it makes sense to make grips that can make it more efficient, that can make things easier. But I also believe that – both in the previous case and in several other cases we have – our supervisory authorities will be tested and challenged in terms of how well the patient is secured. The patient’s trust is incredibly important, and then it is important to get answers, but also to experience that complaints are being taken seriously. Now, what you're saying is that the majority just says that we're doing this, without any reservations – and it's referring to the previous case, where it turned out that you might have been a little ahead of you in 2019 when you just unanimously said that we are doing this. It might actually make sense to look after one year if you should get an evaluation of how this went. I think it would have been good. I think it should be noted that one of the major patient organisations, the Cancer Association, is very clear that they are concerned about the consequences of being able to choose and decide which issues to prioritise up or down. It can have major, unfortunate consequences, and it can reduce patient confidence, and at least it is one of the most important things for the Progress Party: that we must have good confidence in the good health services we have. But unfortunately, things happen sometimes that are not going to happen, and then whoever has experienced this has to have the opportunity to complain, and you have to be taken seriously and taken care of in a good way. So that's really what this is all about. That's why I was a little surprised to hear the three previous posts, because it might sound like you're very disagreeable, but there's no disagreement in what's here about the matter. The disagreement is about whether to open up an evaluation after one year to see how this scheme has worked, and look at concerns such as: The Cancer Association and others send out signals that there may be challenges with the current proposal. That is why I am referring to the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved in this matter, because I think it is a good proposal. And as I said, we've unfortunately seen a little too often that we're a little bit too tough and we're running a little bit too hard on, and then it turns out in retrospect that maybe a little bit of an evaluation might have been tricked.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4371	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4376	I want to explain why Red is voting against the proposed clarification of the obligation for healthcare services to respond to enquiries from patients, users and relatives. In Norway, the lack of health professionals is so serious that we call it a crisis. We have a nursing crisis, we have a fixed crisis, we lose competence, and we can't recruit those we need. The decision-makers and nurses are drowning in tasks. They already have a huge administrative burden. Therefore, in Red, we believe that Stortinget must be careful to impose even more administrative tasks on them without being sure that it has a positive impact on patients. We have to be absolutely sure that the problems we're imposing on them have a real gain, that it's worth adding another stone to the burden they're already carrying. There is already a law to ensure that businesses and health professionals are obliged to inform and follow up enquiries from relatives and patients. The time limit and the obligation to reply are also governed by the Administrative Act. They must be followed up. The patient’s and user’s representative writes in his call for consultation that further regulation is superfluous and complicated. Red is concerned with patients’ rights and the ability to be heard at all levels, but we cannot see that this proposal has a real significance in strengthening patients’ rights, as the Patient and User Ombudsman describes. We believe that it is not justified to impose more administrative tasks on already-pressed health workers. I also believe that patients are best cared for by health professionals who have time to do their job. Except for what I described now, and the minority proposal we're part of, that the state administrator should evaluate, supports the Red option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4389	In order to ensure credibility, trust and cooperation between people and health authorities, it is important that legislation facilitates people's answers to their questions, that there is a high degree of transparency and that the instruments used to deal with violations of the law are appropriate. Regular monitoring is important in order to ensure the legal certainty of patients and to provide them with the assistance they require. The best of patients and their legal certainty is what is crucial for the Left. There is broad consensus among the hearing bodies that it is appropriate to facilitate the high workload experienced by state administrators. If the government is under pressure, it could go beyond the job to be done, and that's not a good starting point. To the proposal for a new section 3-7 that patients, users and relatives should be entitled to reply to requests, this proposal by the Left is of course a matter of support. We cannot have a health bureaucracy that fails to respond to concerns patients, users and relatives need to have. It is important for trust and legal certainty that issues that are perceived as important for individuals are not rejected by the authorities due to other assessments. This is how the rest of the government works, and it should just be lacking that you do not also get answers to questions that deal with your own and others' health. The left will therefore vote in line with the vote of the majority in this case, but at the same time we believe it is important that such changes do not have negative consequences on behalf of patients. We will therefore also be voting in favour of the proposal from the Progress Party, Red and SV, to evaluate the scheme after one year. Knowledge and experience from legislative changes are important to maintain the trust of patients in the system and to counteract decisions with negative consequences. Therefore, we believe that the proposed change in the second paragraph of Section 7-4a should be evaluated after one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4402	The government wants good and equivalent health and care services to be provided throughout the country. Supervision aims to contribute to the safety and quality of healthcare and to enhance the confidence of the population in the service and health professionals. In the proposal, the government proposes several changes to health and care legislation to help improve the functioning of the supervisory authorities and the response system, in order to achieve patient safety and trust. It is proposed to clarify that it is up to the government administrator to assess whether a request for the assessment of potential breach of obligations should be followed up and, where appropriate, how it should be done. It will contribute to a greater room for action for state administrators to make better and more effective prioritisation of matters. However, if there is reason to believe that there is a risk to patient and user safety, the relationship shall always be investigated. In some cases, it would be most appropriate to include and follow-up possible breaches of obligations by the healthcare provider. Therefore, clarifications are proposed in the obligation of businesses to respond to enquiries from patients, users and relatives. Furthermore, several changes are proposed to the provisions of the Health Care Professional Act on administrative responses. The government proposes to cancel the ‘warning’ reaction because the effect of this reaction is uncertain. Instead, the government proposes a new response – ‘professional imposition’. The ‘professional directive’ response does not restrict the authorisation, but health professionals may be required to receive guidance or to implement other measures of competence. The government also proposes changes to the suspension rules. These changes mean that the State Health Authority may limit the suspension to the right of health professionals only to carry out certain tasks for a period of time, instead of a suspension of any right to practise the profession during the period. The changes will contribute to more efficient and efficient supervision. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4423	Supervision is important, because it is about ensuring that patients and users receive their services according to the legislation. Today, we are discussing the Patient and User Rights Act, and one thing is supervision and ensuring that the legislation is followed up. Something else is how users or patients get involved and influence their own services. The Patient and User Rights Act states that ‘patients or users are entitled to participate in the provision of healthcare services.’ The Hurdal platform does not say much about user involvement and what the government will do to contribute to it, based on the Patient and User Rights Act. We also know that there are a lot of people, e.g. in the community health service, which does not carry out user studies to an adequate degree. My question to the Council of State is: What will the government do to ensure that users and patients are able to provide better feedback to the healthcare services provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4432	The fact that the patient is in the centre and is involved in all decisions about himself in his treatment is quite fundamental to our healthcare. Working on strengthening the user perspective of all the services we provide is the government's concern. This is achieved by providing a good health service where professionals are safe and adequately qualified. So I don't see any "mismatch" here between the ambitions of the previous government and the ambitions of this government, even if it's done a little bit like this. The need for patients to participate in decisions on their own treatment is fundamental. The main changes in the current proposal relate to the ability of supervision to give priority to the most important thing. What we've seen is that some state administrators have built up the balances because all of the issues are equally important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4437	I agree with the last thing that the Council of State said, and I also pointed that out in my article. There are different practices among state administrators, and this is about giving more room for prioritising issues. Supervision is important. It's about discovering whether a code is not being followed. But it is equally important that users are given the opportunity to give feedback to the services. I feel that the Council of State and I share our views on this. However, there is a slightly different practice in this area — among others. in hospitals and in the community health service — in relation to how one actually follows up the right under the Patient and User Rights Act to participate in its own health and care services. I'm going to challenge that, because there's very little concrete about it in the Hurdal platform. What I'm asking is: What concrete action will the government take to strengthen the ability to influence health and care services to a greater extent than many may experience today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4446	I believe that this is some of the change we are making today, that you will receive an answer from the service you are meeting. But I think it's important to work with the systems that are supposed to take care of the user's perspective – to have local user selections. The Ombudsman has an important ombudsman role. The government has now started work on the mental health escalation plan, and we have had great pleasure in meeting several youth councils in our healthcare companies, which are also an important user voice, and which hospitals listen to and use when planning and developing the service. So this can happen in many ways, and there's a perspective that I think is quite pervasive in the bets that lie in the health chapters of the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4451	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4467	This is about discrimination between people, people who are treated with insulin but who do not have access to the latest and health-promoting technology – it is a continuous glucose meter, also called CGM. There is a sensor that measures the blood sugar and that sits on the arm 14 days at a time before changing it. The blood sugar values are shown on a mobile reader or app. To avoid complications related to diabetes, it is important to achieve stable and normal blood sugar. Therefore, an overview and control of blood sugar at all times is essential. The risk of diabetes-related heart attacks, amputation and blindness increases if blood sugar is too high over time. Long-term blood sugar in diabetic patients has improved in recent years. John Cooper, medically responsible for the adult diabetes registry, has stated that the marked increase in CGM use is very positive. There is an important reason why more and more patients are getting better blood sugar control, and today CGM is the standard treatment for all people with type 1 diabetes. Professionals are clearly aware that this is about getting control of blood sugar and thus avoiding complications. The cost of measuring blood sugar in fingers costs society nearly 300 million. kr per year. The extra costs of giving a CGM to all people with type 2 diabetes taking insulin are unclear. Copenhagen Economics estimated it at 54 million. kr, but we actually wanted to save 45 million. a CGM if the measured blood sugar in the finger as often as they should. There is a high socio-economic cost of dealing with complications due to poorly regulated diabetes. In its 2021 report on type 2 diabetes, Oslo Economics has seen social costs. They've estimated the value of lost years of life and lost quality of life to 30 billion. kr annually, the production loss of approx. 7.6 B.C.E. kr annually and the healthcare costs of SEK 9.1 billion. kr annually. 54 million. kr is a little bit of money in this calculation. A limited group of people with severe type 2 diabetes is treated in the same way as type 1 diabetes with insulin. These have the exact same challenges of achieving stable blood sugar in order to ensure good self-treatment, functional participation in working life and future good health, but are mainly addressed by their primary health care staff. These patients therefore need to be referred to the specialist healthcare service in order to obtain a CGM. The Minister of Health has stated in Stortinget that type 2 diabetes discs that benefit from continuous blood sugar measurement have both received it from their regional health business and should receive it. This perception does not coincide with reality. We see that there have developed large regional differences in the allocation, where the hospital economy is a decisive factor. From a diabetes nurse in Viken, I have received a copy of a rejection letter from CGM from Drammen Hospital in March this year. It says: Unfortunately, we have not accepted an application for CGM for patients with type 2 diabetes unless there are very special circumstances that make self-measurement difficult. We hope it will be more accessible for patients with DM2 in the long term. The patient's permanent staff then wrote a new letter to Drammen Hospital after the rejection and asked for it to be granted, or that the rejection should be explained in more detail. The drama hospital then writes: We have discussed several times in plenary how we should handle applications for CGM for patients with type 2 diabetes. This is a large patient group and increasing. We do not have the capacity in outpatient clinic to handle the training and follow-up this requires. So here we see that it's diabetes type 2 diagnosis that's a basis for rejection. Nor does the hospital have the capacity to handle these patients. The hospital hopes that the CGM will be available in the long term for those with type 2 diabetes, and so we also see that there is a large group of people who need CGM, who don't get it. The hospital, on the other hand, seems to have little insight into the fact that it is their job to grant CGM to this patient group. The image of the Health Minister paints about the availability of the CGM for those who need it is not consistent with a reality where referrals are rejected only on the basis of the patient’s diagnosis and capacity considerations. In order to ensure equivalent treatment for people using insulin, the treating physician should be able to print CGM regardless of whether the patient has type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The primary healthcare service, which treats patients with type 2 diabetes, should therefore be entitled to prescribe CGM. Will the Minister of Health facilitate the award of the CGM over the prescription, as the Minister of Health himself has called for? I've previously told the Minister of Health about Kai Olav. He has type 2 diabetes, uses insulin and had to stick his finger every two hours to get control of his blood sugar. The magazine of Rome made a case about him with the title: "Kai Olav fears to stand without a job if he has to keep sticking: – Bad job done." So he was denied the help that would give him control of the blood sugar and thus help him to carry out his job properly. Kai Olav could have lost both his driving license and his job when he was hospitalized last summer because of extremely high long-term blood sugar. After writing about the matter, he was granted the application and stated that he has received a whole new working day. He can now live a full, normal life and continue in work. It's people like Kai Olav this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4499	This matter has been debated several times in the last few years, at the latest in two questions from the representative Hoksrud. I also had some questions when I was in opposition. As I have pointed out earlier in my answers, there is work going on in connection with the financing of medical devices and consumables, among other things. to clarify the distinction in financial responsibility between the BIP and the health regions. The aim is that it should be predictable for all actors whether a new product is to be assessed and, where appropriate, financed by one or the other scheme. In the case of medicinal products, this distinction is provided for in the regulation of the prescription of the blueprint and is based on compliance with the financial responsibility of the controller. This means that the bladder prescription system does not cover medicinal products in which a specialist healthcare professional is involved, follows up and terminates the treatment. This practice is also widely applicable to medical consumables and foodstuffs, even if it is not prescribed. At the same time, we see that there are grey zones, which have been particularly evident in the discussion of diabetic measuring devices. For diabetes, it is mainly the case that the treatment responsibility for patients with type 1 diabetes lies with the specialist healthcare system, while patients with type 2 diabetes are usually treated by the prescriber and receive the necessary medicines and consumables for the measurement of glucose on blue prescription. At the same time, patients with type 2 diabetes are also referred to the specialist healthcare services, whose decision-makers do not target the treatment, and in case of suspected complications due to poorly regulated blood sugar over a long period of time, and the representative Hoksrud had an example of this in his intervention. For most patients with type 2 diabetes, neither reference to the follow-up specialist healthcare service nor the use of continuous glucose metering equipment as CGM meters is necessary. Patients with type 2 diabetes due to complications or for other reasons referred to and followed-up in the specialist healthcare service could be offered CGM equipment funded by health regions. There is currently a work on financing medical devices and consumables, and having mechanisms that provide the most equivalent offer, will be important assessment points here. Many people live with type 2 diabetes today, and it will hit even more in the future. There is a need for increased competence to prevent the development of type 2 diabetes and for increased knowledge of the treatment of the disease. Such measures are relevant to follow-up in several of the major issues the government is working on — such as public health communication, the NCD strategy and the national health and interaction plan. At the same time, the Health Directorate is working on updating professional guidelines for diabetes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4516	I would like to thank the Council of State, but I nevertheless want to go back to what the Minister of Health said in Question Time on 10 November 2021, that ‘type 2 diabetic patients who benefit from continuous blood sugar measurement have both received it from their regional health business and should receive it’. So the council pointed out that I referred to one example. But in my home country, Telemark, it's a diabetic nurse. She refers several patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin to the hospital of a continuous glucose meter. I have been allowed to read from the answer she received from the hospital: As mentioned, the strict criteria for continuous glucose meter in type 2 people, including those using insulin and multi-injection regimens. There is nothing wrong with them being able to purchase the continuous glucose meter privately. We don't have enough capacity to take new tests, but it's important to say that they don't necessarily get this equipment, even if it improves the quality of life, because it's not economic for it. So the hospital says they don't have the capacity, or the economy, to give them a type 2 continuous glucose meter. At the same time, they specify that patients would like to buy it themselves. The hospital to which the diabetes nurse in Telemark refers has created its own internal criteria for who with type 2 diabetes can get a continuous glucose meter. These criteria are not included in the National Guidelines of the Health Directorate. The hospital writes that there are very strict requirements to get this. Creating such strict criteria excludes very many patients who really need a continuous glucose meter. What about all the patients who are at work and who need good control of their blood sugar? What about those patients who have swinging blood sugar and struggle with high and low values throughout the day? These will have access to new technologies that improve their quality of life. Finally, the economy of hospitals determines what treatment patients receive. One thing is that this is contrary to the requirements of proper and individual patient treatment, but this is also a gross discrimination against people using insulin. It's interesting to know what the council thinks when it's economics that are the reason of hospitals to say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4534	At first I would say that I have not promoted any glare of this. I take a strong distance from that description to the representative Hoksrud. People who have to measure their blood sugar continuously carry a great burden, and they are essentially their own therapists. If you have type 1 diabetes, you need to measure your blood sugar continuously. You also have to take insulin. The President knows that – the President has a relevant professional background. There are also some of those who have type 2 who need continuous blood sugar measurement, and they will get it. In the case of a refusal justified in the economy, it shall not be such – there shall be a real need. It is good that the representative Hoksrud has also met some patients who have received what they should have. Involvement of individual cases in patients who experience that they have not received the health care they should receive is difficult for any government council. However, there is a need for continuous blood sugar measurement, and it has been assessed by the prescriber, and reference has been made to the specialist health service – yes, you have to get it. And when the blue prescription finances what you need for consumables, you go and pick it up at the pharmacy. For those who have received CGM meters, it is the health regions. It was an endless round when this became available to Norwegian patients, because health regions had to make a bid and did not have a lot of experience in similar purchases. That's why the Department and Health Directorate are now working on these questions: how do we address this need in the future? And it's not like using CGM meters versus extracting strips is necessarily a matter of cost. It's just as expensive to get strips. If you need continuous measurement, you need continuous measurement. The simplest and most user-friendly is CGM meters for those who need it. That's my answer. We are working on this matter, and I have not promoted any glare of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4545	The state council's opinion that those who need a CGM get it is in stark contrast to the media stuff we've seen lately about people who don't get a continuous blood sugar measure even if they have unstable blood sugar and have to stick to their fingers many times a day. Sauebonde Eva pronounced to the Nations in January: «I measure and measure and measure. My fingers are so broken that I almost can't get the blood sweat out of them, so I have to stick in new places all the time." The Diabetes Association expressed its opinion in the same article: ‘The country meeting considers it to be unsustainable that there is so much inequality and geographical differences in who is being offered continuous glucose meters among people with type 2 diabetes who are taking insulin.’ In the government's houndal platform, it's called: ‘The aim of government health and welfare policies is to create health-promoting societies, prevent disease and provide a decentralised healthcare service providing good and equivalent health services throughout the country.’ So today's government will be investing in prevention. Continuous glucose metering is a cost-effective and simple technological system that could provide significant cost savings in the short and long term, and lead to significantly better quality of life for the individual. The discrimination and arbitrary allocation of continuous glucose meter to patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin is contrary to the intention of the government platform. This leads to a situation where those who can afford it even buy the equipment they need. Such an example is Yngve. Youngster is a excavator who has type 2 diabetes. His supervisor and diabetes nurse in the municipality have applied three times for a continuous glucose meter. Young people need Group 2 certificates to be able to do their job and depend on a stable blood sugar. This is very difficult when he is using insulin and therefore does not know what the blood sugar is when he is operating large machines. He is in danger of losing his licence and thus the job. Nevertheless, he is refused a rejection. The hospital therefore believes that it is better that Young people become potentially unemployed and receive money from Nav than to pay the small price per month for a continuous glucose meter. Young people have chosen to pay for a CGM themselves to have a good life with their diabetes. Kristian Furuseth is an expert in diabetes. He felt that the legislation had to be amended, and said the following to the Austrian magazine last November: ‘The authorities must become more liberal. What you're afraid is that more patients than necessary will get such meters, but this device turns out to be so useful and the top is so big that you should take the chance. With that, we will gain a lot in terms of better health and quality of life. At the same time, more people can be kept at work.’ As we see it, both patients, health professionals and the Diabetes Association agree that access to CGM needs to be improved. Today, we are engaged in the fire-fighting of injuries caused by poorly regulated diabetes. This costs us as a society enormously with money, and the individual suffers unnecessary suffering. Prevention requires that we do something to prevent suffering and costs in the long term. The time is ripe to give access to a continuous glucose meter to all users of insulin.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4579	In Norway, 315,000–365 000 people live with type 2 diabetes. Of these, it's approx. 50,000 using insulin. I'm recording that the state council now says it costs about the same thing whether you pick out strips, which is the old method, or you pick up CGM meters, which is the new way to do it, and which will give a much simpler and better life to the people that we're dealing with. Then I don't understand anything when you record that the biggest resistance to this is that the hospitals say they can't afford it. If you had gone into what I've been concerned about, and I feel that the Council of State has also been involved in a previous question-time question, namely, to look at the possibility that the primary health service and the caregivers might be able to give this here, you could have made sure that many more people would get better quality of life, get a better life and a better everyday life. It could probably do something with both its own health and its long-term consequences, as well as of course saving society for long-term costs. That's 50 million. kr as peanuts to be counted in that calculation. I think the Council of State responded very briefly and quickly to the interpellation, but although she says that it is still working on this, I record that, based on the answer given by several hospitals around this country, there is no need for the patient to apply, it is actually the costs of the hospitals that are the argument behind why they say no. Governments like to shake their heads from their seats, but the reality is that you have to see what the answer from the hospitals is, and they're clear and clear. It is very worrying for people who have said that they are concerned about having equal health care across the country. So in addition, those who can afford this and have the opportunity to buy it themselves get better services than those who don't have it. It's also special when the government says it's busy with ordinary people, and everyone's going with it. Obviously not everyone should be involved in this. I'm still going to challenge the state council. I know that the opposition council was very concerned about this issue, but I probably don't experience the same zeal from the Minister of Health now as when she stood up and talked about cleaning up and not going around ringing, etc. The quotes are there. I hope that the Council of State actually takes this inward, takes this and ensures that many people get better quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4590	I want the same commitment from the Advancement Party to prevent type 2 diabetes because, unlike type 1 diabetes, it is very difficult to prevent – it is unfortunately random and uneven – we can actually prevent type 2. But I picture the image of the representative Hoksrud and his colleague in the Health and Care Committee, Morten Wold, at the time they were in the grocery store and just tossed away all the proposals for a sensible public health that can prevent suffering and harassment and make patients avoid them in the future. So I demand it, and thus the challenge is thrown forward: greater commitment to preventing type 2. So I just want to say that that's not the cost it's about, that's the way we've organized the services. It is a system that serves us well, but which has some weaknesses, such as that the responsibility for data processing is also accompanied by the financial responsibility for the medicines and the medical devices you need. If you are in the primary health service and are chronicler, the prescription is the blueprint and the pharmacy you pick up your own equipment, which is the regime. If you receive treatment and follow-up from a specialist healthcare professional, this is also provided by specialist health services. The descriptions Bård Hoksrud gives about my reluctance to solve this, do not match reality. I think he paints it out quite unnecessarily. Not to be personal, but I have first-hand experience with diabetic patients who have to measure blood sugar 24 hours a day. I have lived my whole life – or that is, until 2017 – with a father who had type 1 diabetes and who had to measure blood sugar all the time. He did not experience the technological revolution it is to be able to have a ‘pod’ on his upper arm and read on his cell phone and follow the blood sugar from hour to hour, without having to stick to his fingers. That children who are born today and have diabetes at an early age have such technological possibilities – that parents can follow the blood sugar of their children, that we have solved the challenges of privacy and everything there – is fantastic. My goal is that all patients with type 2 diabetes who need and benefit from CGM should get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-28.ana.ud131e4601	That is when the debate is on case No. 13 done. Case No. 14, Unit, has already been processed. This means that today's roadmap has been debated. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – It does not seem so, and thus the meeting has been cancelled.
