ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e28	The representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e33	On behalf of Seher Aydar, Björn Moxnes and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to help Ukrainians flee from war by offering collective protection to Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e38	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e43	On behalf of the Red, I would like to propose the ratification of additions to the Rome Statutes on the prosecution of international lawless war of aggression and the criminalisation of international lawless war of assault in Norwegian criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e48	The representative, Mr Halleland, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e53	I am delighted to make a proposal by the party representatives Marius Arion Nilsen, Silje Hemdal, Erlend Wiborg, Sylvi Listhaug and myself to ensure increased Norwegian gas exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e58	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e63	On behalf of Morten Stordalen, Sylvi Listhaug, Bård Hoksrud, Silje Hämdal, Helge André Njåstad, Carl I. Hagen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on prioritising new research. 15 Wrestlers now. I also have the honour to present a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Morten Stordalen, Sylvi Listhaug, Bård Hoksrud and myself to stop Bypakket Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e71	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e87	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt and the Councils of State Jon-Ivar Nygård and Marte Mjøs Persen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Ine Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e96	There is war in Europe, and it is a war that affects us all – both emotionally and practically. We contribute with financial and political support, and the government announced on Sunday a significant escalation in humanitarian aid. It's very much appreciated, and we've also asked the government to consider it. In addition, we send both protective equipment and panserver weapons to those who now have everything they have and everything they are defending their country and their freedom. It too has full support from the Right. The situation is quite exceptional, the legislation allows it, and the situation requires it. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, over 670,000 people have fled Ukraine, and the number is increasing rapidly. In addition, there are more than one million people fleeing internally in Ukraine. And as I've mentioned in the Questionnaire before, there has been a major humanitarian crisis in eastern Ukraine, where over 14,000 people are killed and over 3 million people live under very difficult conditions in a small geographical area. They need emergency aid – and the reason is that Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and started acts of war. These are people who can now also flee across borders. It is positive that the government sends signals that Norway should accept people as refugees from this brutal war that Vladimir Putin started. Now we're the neighborhoods. There are now discussions in the EU about how Europe can best help and contribute to a distribution between countries. This European work is important for Norway to be part of. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does the government now work concretely to contribute to the EU's joint response to help refugees? And what signals has the government given on what Norway can contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e107	The Minister of Justice attended an EU meeting on this issue this weekend, and she wants to attend a new meeting again, precisely because Norway is a country that is setting up. We're going to be rusty with the Ukrainians now. It's in our vicinity. First of all, we want to offer help where the refugees have arrived, through humanitarian aid, access to food, medicine and health care. But there's also going to be someone coming to Norway. Then we will coordinate with the European countries. I think that has been a good response in this crisis, that there has been a great deal of European cohesion. Despite the fact that there has been political disagreement on precisely refugee issues in Europe, I feel this time that there is a great desire to contribute. I'm probably going to get a lot of concrete questions during this questioning, and it's an expression of the genuine commitment that's in this room that we're going to do everything we can to support the Ukrainians in their struggle. But in all areas it is not that I can today specifically answer yes or no to questions. We are now making ongoing assessments in all areas. I have regular meetings with colleagues in other European countries, and I will seek to involve the Storting as best I can. So my general answer to this and other questions during this questioning will probably be that I exclude nothing, but I probably have to come back to concrete follow-up and assessment in the different areas. Our main message to the countries of the European Union is that we stand up, we want to be solidarity with those who receive refugees, and we want to be a voice against the refugees who come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e118	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is probably right that she will have many specific questions during the Question Time, and there comes one here: Two weeks ago, I asked the Prime Minister about a specific request that Ukraine made to Norway in December, which referred to donations of medical devices, mobile hospitals, ambulances, etc. It has to be delivered quickly. Ukrainian authorities have provided fairly specific lists of equipment they need. The Prime Minister did not take a position on this at the time, but it would be useful to hear whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has an assessment of whether this might be relevant for Norway to contribute in the very short perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e123	I believe that we should now contribute what is necessary. But in such a situation, there are very many countries that have strong ties to the money they give. When I met all the humanitarian organizations in Norway, and when I met with the International Red Cross, I said that what we want to give is funds to the international community, so that the funds are as free as possible and we don't label them as special things. That is what is fundamental to the Norwegian position. Because, as the Danish Development Minister said, as I spoke to half an hour before this Question Time, we see that the big problem is to make logistics work and get help into Ukraine. We see that these are heavy cows in front of the gas stations. So that's the most acute problem right now. The basic thing for Norway is that yes, we do, but it is up to the humanitarian organizations to define what they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e130	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e135	It is very positive that the government increased Norway’s humanitarian contribution to Ukraine in the light of the current invasion and crisis. We both assume and support that the government is continuously assessing what contributions Norway can make, in consultation with our partners and allies. However, I am told that it is difficult to get in touch with international humanitarian organisations working in Ukraine, from Ukraine. It is absolutely essential that the help we provide comes out, and my question is whether the government is experiencing an overview of how Norwegian contributions are managed by the ground actors in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e140	Some Norwegian organisations have long worked in Ukraine, and they say that it is difficult to come up with assistance, especially in the Russian controlled areas. It's hard to access. So that's probably the most precarious right now. But many organisations have personnel on the ground. They are now in increasing danger. Journalists are now being withdrawn. Then there are the auxiliary workers who are left, and they may be exposed, in this terrible war. Then there are very many who are now operating from the countries bordering Ukraine. We're going to support them all we can, in different ways, and I'm having regular dialogue with them to get information about the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e147	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e152	Russia's cruel attack on Ukraine has brought Europe to war, and we have seen how a country without membership in NATO has been exposed to the worst war acts in Europe after World War II. We have been reminded that we cannot take peace, freedom and democracy for granted. Given Russia's aggressive rhetoric and actions, it is now essential for Norwegian security that we are a member of NATO. The Progress Party believes that it is beyond doubt that the defence budgets in Norway need to increase in the future, so that we can take greater responsibility for our own security. The government has chosen to rely on the Socialist Left Party, which is against Norwegian NATO membership, and which has what I would call a naive approach to foreign and security policy. It is now known that SV does not support Norway sending weapons to Ukraine either. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is right for the government to continue to rely on SV, who wants to leave NATO, and who has a naive attitude in foreign and security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e160	What is important in terms of foreign and security policy is that, in order to use a foreign word, the government has a so-called prerogative or a right of preference. We seek to involve Storting all that we can. It's not always as easy when there's a crisis situation as it is now, but we're doing it as best we can. But it is not that we need decisions from a large majority in the various foreign policy assessments we are making. What will be fundamental to me is to seek broad dissension in the Great Britain about the foreign policy assessments we are making in this situation. So I disagree with SV and Red in the view of NATO, and I think there's going to be a big discussion about security policy. We also see that in our neighbouring country. But I think I should leave the polemics in this round and just notice that here we disagree, and we have actually been since SV was established.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e167	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e172	It is the case that budgetary questions need a majority in favour of the Stortinget, and we are concerned that SV should have a hand on the steering wheel. We have today a situation that none of us would have thought would arise. A great act has attacked a sovereign country in Europe. Russia has shown that those who show great concern for weaker nations without alliances. In a debate on defence and security policy at the beginning of February of this year, the leader of the Communist Party Red in Norway, Bjørna Moxnes, stated that Norway acts as a carrier for the United States. «Is it our security that we become a platform for military fighting against Russia?» In an interview with the Nett newspaper a few days ago, Moxnes confirmed that Red is still against Norwegian membership in NATO, and that it does not serve us to be in the alliance. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about this kind of attitude that is being expressed towards the United States and NATO, which are the foremost guarantors of Norway's peace and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e181	Now a survey yesterday showed that there is an enormous majority for Norwegian NATO membership, and it is not threatened even if Red makes the polls. I disagree with Red in the view of NATO. I believe that what has been fundamental to Norway since we decided to become a member of NATO in 1949 is that we must both have a credible deterrence, and that we must be calm. I have written some readings against Red's defence and security policy in the past and have made clear the great distance between my party and Red. What may have been the basis for the establishment of Red was just protesting against the Workers' Party's security policy, so the disagreement is fundamental between the two parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e186	Guri Melby – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e191	There are dark days in Europe, and I am proud that Norway is now supporting Ukraine along many different axes. There is a great need to equip Ukrainians to continue their strong resistance to overpowering, not least, to accept large refugee flows. Yesterday I met the Ukrainian ambassador here in Norway. He also said that he was very pleased with the support that Norway now provides, and that it means a lot to both the authorities and the Ukrainian people. What I want to ask you is a little bit about what we're going to do, because he was also very clear that this is just the beginning, and that there will be a lot more to be needed. We have raised a proposal in the UK about financial support, so that Ukraine itself can also acquire more weapons, and we have proposed up to 1 billion. kr in the first place. Is there anything the government has assessed? So to my second question: we have now joined the EU in strong and strong sanctions, which is very important, but the EU also stands together for a separate fund within the European Peace Facility, which can also contribute to supporting Ukraine. Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs taken initiatives towards the EU to enable Norway to contribute to this fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e200	I think it is wise now to say that we are assessing everything, and to the one who has followed the discussion about whether we should send weapons: it showed that there were many political parties that changed during Sunday and Monday on what has been a very long practice in the Norwegian view of delivering weapons to countries where war and conflict threaten. It was the ground situation that triggered a changed understanding of how to practice that legislation – there was no need for a change of rules. I almost have to say to the representative that we have all proposals for evaluation. What I do all the time is talk to my European colleagues, and then we have a list of proposals that we have up to date. The important thing for Norway is to appear together with the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e207	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e212	Then I am delighted to welcome the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Questionnaire. The Russian invasion of Ukraine shows the boundless brutality and cynicism that make up Putin's authoritarian regime. The financing of the Russian war machine is largely based on European dependence on Russian gas, which Putin has long used as part of his cynical power game. During the election campaign in the autumn, much of the political debate in Norway was about an increasing number of parties wanting to abolish the Norwegian oil and gas industry, for the sake of the climate. As the only party, the Progress Party consistently argued that such an energy policy would only mean that we weaken Norwegian energy power and other democratically dependent energy powers and similarly strengthen the power of brutal and authoritarian regimes, such as Putin's Russia. Norway is today a power of energy in Europe. We are the world's third largest gas exporter, and we supply the EU with about 25 pst each year. of their gas consumption. The second major act is Russia, which produces about 40 pst. of the EU's gas needs. When an aggregate increase now seems to agree to punish Russia’s invasion of Ukraine harshly with financial sanctions without any historical similarity, at the same time large parts of this will choose to ignore the fact that European gas dependence on Russia is a problem that can and should be resolved with increased Norwegian gas exports to the continent. The EU has specifically consulted the Norwegian authorities if we can deliver more gas. The government's answer is that we already export as much as we can. What can Norway do in the long term to increase its gas production and export capacity to a Europe that is now desperately trying to get out of Putin's energy mine?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e223	The war in Ukraine is now entering its second week, and every day we see images that make a strong impression. We are constantly receiving new reports of a brutal war, and Ukrainian forces are fighting bravely and resisting. I understand that many people are also concerned about what is happening in Europe, and how this will affect everyday life here at home. We are now in a situation where energy, the energy sector, is part of the sanctions package. It is, as the representative Halleland describes, that much of Russian gas is exported in Europe. Norway is a country that exports a lot of gas. We export almost everything we produce from both oil and gas. We're a producer country, we're not a country that uses this for itself. As it works on a Norwegian base, we sell everything we produce, all the time, and we keep doing that. We have also taken some steps to see if we can get more out of what is. That is why we are now examining applications on an ongoing basis to look at gas injections, and we have authorised them, among other things. to Gina Krog, Oseberg and Troll that they may not inject gas, but rather export it. We will continue to deal with that kind of proposal. In the long term, we have just completed a TFO round that has given 53 new permits, and we are about to announce a new TFO round. Our main contribution is to be a stable contributor and to supply Europe with gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e236	I thank you for the answer, but I'm a little unsure whether it came very new out of it. The first Workers' Party and the Center Party did when they came to government in the autumn was to give SV the power to dictate the future of Norwegian oil and gas industries, against which the Advance Party repeatedly warned in advance. Then, in the budget agreement between the three parties, there was an agreement to stop the search for oil and gas in immature parts of Norwegian Socket through the 26th-numbered concession round. In view of the fact that we have a Europe that now thirsts for Norwegian natural gas, and has specifically asked us to deliver more gas, and at the same time we have a despot in Russia that uses European dependence on Russian gas for everything it is worth in a cynical power game: does the Council of State think that a decision that will weaken Norwegian energy power and, in the worst case, will further strengthen Putin's energy mine over Europe is sensible energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e244	Norway provides stable gas supplies to Europe and the United Kingdom. We're going to keep doing that. An important part of this is to keep looking, producing and extracting. The main support of Norwegian petroleum policy is the TFO rounds. I have noticed that the Progress Party in the dramatic crisis now faces Ukraine and Russia has used it to promote that the numbered rounds should have been completed. But I would like to point out that numbered rounds will not have an immediate effect on Norwegian gas production. So it's a track that's not important to follow on, given the situation we're in here and now. The TFO rounds are thus the support beam of Norwegian petroleum policy. It is also reasonable to use existing infrastructure and to produce closely or in conjunction with the existing infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e253	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e258	After yesterday's UN interim report on the climate, the reactions did not leave any representatives in this room. The left thought this had to be the nail in the box for the search for more oil and gas. Lars Haltbrecken from the government's supporting party, SV, continued to blame for the oil and gas industry. On questions from the NRK whether it is a good idea to distribute several licenses on a Norwegian base, the Workers' Party's Espen Barth Eide also chose to doubt the whole future of Norway's main industry, in a vague response that the entire Norwegian economy, including the oil and gas industries, now needs to be tested against the 1.5 degree target. The government entered into a budgetary agreement whereby the SV, who will shut down the oil and gas industries, dictated that 26th concession rounds, which will give oil companies access to new exploration areas, were iced up. We realize that this won't give any effect in the short term, but in the long term. Can the Council of State guarantee that 26th concession rounds will be carried out? When will that happen? I hope for an answer now, which we did not get at the NRK earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e265	There is no drama in the fact that the 26th concession round was not completed in 2022. The 25th round ended last year, and there were new allocations. We have just completed a TFO round this year and allocated 53 new areas in the Norwegian Sea, the North Sea and the Barents Sea, and we are now notifying that we will be making a new TFO call, which will be held at the hearing. Numbered rounds will be part of the government's policy for the future, and I think we're going to issue a numbered round, but that's not going to happen during 2022. That is because TFO is what is the bearer of the petroleum policy. That's where we can now unleash the greatest potential, and that's what government policy is – that we want a stable and predictable petroleum policy, where the poles are solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e272	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e277	My follow-up question is to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Europe, with Germany at its head, has long pursued irresponsible climate and energy policies that are phased out in a way that can be regulated. It has led to increased dependence on Russian gas and given more power to the despot Putin and Russia. The Germans, together with Russia, have built the North Stream 2 pipeline. Fortunately, it seems that this isn't now being opened. The Americans have been strong against it all along, precisely because they feared that Europe would become more dependent on Russian gas. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was in the United States, several people were concerned about Norway's role in this, that we should seek more, find more, produce more and make Europe less dependent on Putin. If there are now invitations and requests for Norway to speed up the search for new oil and gas resources to make Europe and the world less dependent on Russian oil and gas in the short and long term, how will the government deal with such enquiries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e286	It's too early to say. It's not my constitutional responsibility either, but I can say something in general. We have been talking to various European countries for a long time about Norwegian energy policy. I myself was in the EU for a while, and there were many there who wanted to stop all oil and gas production in the Arctic. I have explained carefully that there is a need for gas during a transitional period, and many of those who then asked us to stop producing gas, now ask us to pump up faster. It has been important for me to communicate what is Norwegian energy policy, to aim for a renewable future, but in the future we need gas for a transitional period, and to use the knowledge we have as an energy nation to build a renewable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e291	Ove Trellevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e296	It goes to the oil and energy minister, after the round that was with the Progress Party in place. The European Commission has pointed out that natural gas is an important source of energy transition in Europe in the future. There is a lot of talk from the government about the TFO rounds, but forecasts show that both oil and gas exports will be greatly reduced in a few years’ time. In connection with the presentation of the 2021 Socket Year, which was on January 13th this year, the forecasts from the Oil Directorate showed that a total of 56 pst. of the undiscovered resources exist in the areas that Size has already opened. This means that there is still a significant potential in areas that are already open, including outside TFO areas. [[President clubs]] Oil companies have nominate blocks in these areas What is the government's strategy when it comes to future unopened areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e303	The President has been kind until now, but it is important that people relate to the speaking time they have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e308	I may have misunderstood the question, but I just announced that we are going to have a TFO call in 2022 and that it is now going to the hearing. So I can then demand that it not happen. In the case of Norwegian oil and gas production, it is important – and I fully agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said – that we should be a stable producer of Norwegian gas and oil, which enables us to deliver to world markets. Overall, the fields on the Norwegian base stand for 2-3 pst. of the world's supply of oil and gas, and we are prepared to continue to be a reliable supplier. Nearly all Norwegian oil and gas go to the EU and the United Kingdom. We cover up to a quarter of the gas consumption in the EU and the United Kingdom, mainly delivered through our gas network.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e316	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e321	The representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are asking the wrong questions. It is absolutely right that we have to increase the production of gas and oil at most now, for a short period, in existing fields and in some new fields. But the transition period for gas, which the Foreign Minister spoke about, is shorter, both because the IPCC report, the climate report, says it needs to be shorter, and because Europe takes it and its dependence on Russia seriously. So they'll end up with gas much faster. Therefore, the question we now need to ask is: How will Norway help Europe to become less gas addicted? Then we need to have a positive picture of transfer cables, sea winds, hybrid cables and all the cooperation we need in Europe. Will the government reconsider its position on these, and will the Council of State give a mandate to the Energy Commission to look at our energy policy in the light of the security policy and the new situation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e330	I share the idea that it is important to have two thoughts in my head at once. We are to be a stable supplier of gas to Europe in the transition phase we are in, while helping us to achieve both our climate objectives and our up and down renewable energy. In the dialogue we have with our European partners, the achievement of renewable energy forms is an important part. That's what we're dealing with both nationally and internationally. All the other EU countries do the same. Our marine wind effort is an important part of getting more energy into the field. I want to clarify that we have given the NVE a mission to look at just the development of the web at sea, and how it should be further developed. What we've warned you, to get started quickly, is that the first 1,500 MW from Southern North Sea II will go straight to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e337	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e342	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm going to talk about Ukraine, not about the Progress Party, although it's a little tempting to remind you that there's only one party that from the profiled team came out with games about Luhansk and Donetsk a short time ago that might not be as good today. We are all gathered around supporting Ukraine's struggle for freedom. Putin's war is illegal, and it's immoral. There is a conflict between democracy and dictatorship. There's a conflict between a small state and a great power that's going to settle and bring us back to a Europe we thought we had left, where a great power believes to be able to violate the limits of others to get what they require. In that situation, I think it is important that we agree on what we agree on, that we do not have a bid fight about who can bring the fastest and freshest measures or score the fastest party political points. I think there have been some examples of the bourgeois opposition doing so, even in a way that I think can give the impression that the government is behind, in a situation where it is important to take time, where it is important to make thorough assessments, and where there is a need to stand together. That's why I want the Foreign Minister to take my questions into account now. They're not required, they're input. It's about two things in particular. It's the oligarchs, the Russian economic elite, that keep society up. That's also why Putin's system is up. It's also why effective sanctions that just bite at them are so important. One of the characteristics of the Russian elite is that they have far greater wealth in tax havens than in Western countries. Will the government look at the possibility of an offensive against tax havens now, because they undermine the sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e353	This is a lot of attention, because it's the oligarchs that have given Putin financial contributions and been part of his power base, you might say. We see that these sanctions hit them the hardest, and that's also been the purpose. I believe that there may be increased understanding among very many other countries to look at tax havens in this context. Norway has been more offensive than other countries, precisely because tax havens undermine the tax system in countries where there is an even greater need than in Norway to build well-being. I am more optimistic about cooperation with other countries about this now. Just look at what was the reaction of, among other things, Great Britain -- they went very, very hard on the oligarchs. In countries where they've had people who've put their money there, there's a lot of focus on this. I'm actually more optimistic about establishing arrangements, because we all depend on hitting an economic elite that undermines people's rights and contributes to a war.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e360	I am also optimistic that it is now possible to bring countries that have opposed to more effective action against tax havens. It is necessary for the sanctions to be effective enough when we see how much Russian wealth has been swept down in these countries. Another part of going after the Russian elite is looking at the oil and gas companies, their power, and what Norway and Europe can do there. One last call to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which I would like her to say a few words about, is that I think we are all deeply impressed by the courage of the Russians who dare, despite hard reprisals, to show their resistance to the war. One concern now is that there are very many arrested. We don't know much about what's happening to them. Free media is being turned on. We support the closure of airspace, but one consequence we still need to be aware of is that it is difficult for people with a different view to get out of Russia. Is the government following the situation of demonstrators and dissidents, and is there anything Norway can do?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e369	The answer to that is yes. We've seen a lot of protests, and there's reason to think these will increase. As they increase, even tougher measures are likely to be put in place by the authorities and the space for freedom of expression is further restricted. This has been a long-term development in Russia. That's why we've been busy not wanting to hit the people-to-people cooperation. This is a good goal, but it is clear that it is more difficult in practice than before. We have seen that some of the voluntary organisations that have had partners on the Norwegian side have increasingly been controlled from Moscow. What we've been busy about now is not jeopardizing the lives of these activists, but we're very well aware of what message they're sending out. I know there are a lot of people who also talk to Russian friends now and get a lot of information. We have to do what we can to strengthen the voice of civil society in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e376	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e381	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Renewable energy is freedom energy. It noted Germany's finance minister Christian Lindner when the German government on Sunday carried out a historic shift in its policy. It is now also evident when we see the dependence on a Russian aggressive state gas pipeline, on which Europe depends. Replacing all gases with renewable energy will take time, but reducing consumption can go faster. A fast way to reduce dependence is to contribute to a massive effort to improve the energy efficiency of buildings in Europe. Glava, heat pumps and solar cells are much more efficient and faster available than gas bets here on the base. Does the government have any plans to support Europe to become less dependent on gas and to increase its commitment to energy efficiency in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e388	I have had this conversation with my European colleagues in the last few days and weeks – including with the European Commission – about the fact that Europe now needs a strong supply of gas, but not least to provide renewable energy development, and energy efficiency is an important part of it. For some parts of Europe, it is also a matter of changing entire systems from gas to electrical pipelines into houses in order to make use of such energy. I think this is a very good idea of how we can work together with Europe to get to a Europe. We also plan to present a plan here in Norway – as we have adopted in the budget together with SV – for energy efficiency in Norwegian construction, and think that this can be included in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e396	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e401	I thank you for your answer. This winter has also shown us that it is very expensive to rely on gas when the supply fails, as it has now done. It has given sky-high prices to everyone. At the same time, we have seen that in winter, the Norwegian government has spent a lot of time lobbying for the EU to be more focused on gas in the future, among others. by working to see gas as an environmentally friendly energy source in the EU. My question is whether the government, in the light of the crisis in Ukraine and Europe's vulnerability when they are so dependent on gas, will change its policy for Europe, and instead of praising increased dependence on gas, will now work to put more emphasis on renewable energy and energy efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e408	I think it's a little bit important that we have two thoughts in our head at once, simply because the way I evaluate it, gas is also an important part of the energy transformation that's going to happen in Europe. Today it replaces a good part of much more polluting coal power. The last thing I want is that we see a bloom where you start up again the coal-fired power plants. I believe that we have to be able to do both, and with CO 2 capture and storage and with reductions in emissions on the base, Norway today supplies low-emission gas – and we will continue to do so. And I think it's absolutely right – and I think it was good input that I take with me – that energy efficiency should also be part of this, and we work closely with our European partners to build up new renewable energy. That's what's important here, replacing the demand for fossil energy with renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e418	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e423	Here at home we have seen that on the Norwegian base there are several Russian interests in the different companies operating there. These are companies that are either wholly or partly owned by, among others. the Russian elite and Russian oligarchs. My question is whether the government will now look at opportunities to throw these companies out of Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e428	There are currently no Russian companies active in extraction permits on Norwegian base. All authorisations for which Russian companies – as RN Nordic and LUKoil – have held shares have been decided upon by the rightholders and have not been offered to companies for the granting of new extraction permits in connection with TFO 2021. The Ministry has no requests for area from companies for treatment. Such a situation is now, with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it is impractical to allow Russian companies to become rightholders on Norwegian pedestal. The Norwegian company Wintershall Dea Norway is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the German Wintershall Dea group, and in this German company one of the Russian oligarchs affected by EU-wide sanctions packages has a minority shareholding. We are now working on implementing the necessary follow-up steps to implement the actions that Norway has joined with the EU. We're working on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e435	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e440	Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a gross violation of international law that we all stand together to condemn. Red wants strong sanctions against Putin and the oligarchs around him and believes that Norway must also go ahead to put Putin in charge of the attack on Ukraine. The UN Charter against War of Attack is crystal clear – what has been missing is the will to enforce the ban. However, in 2018, an addition to the Rome Statutes was activated that gives the International Criminal Court jurisdiction to judge the heads of state for international law-enforcement attacks. Several Eastern European countries that fear Russian aggression have ratified it. Today, Red has again proposed that Norway ratify the Appendix to the Rome Statutes and have a similar provision incorporated into the Norwegian Penal Code. If we do that, Norway will be able to issue an international arrest warrant against Putin in order to get him convicted of the international invading invasion of Ukraine – if the law enters into force while the Russian attack or occupation continues. Of course, investigation and legal proceedings must be independent, but there is no secret that many – also Red – want to see Putin behind the lock and fight for the attack on Ukraine. My question is: Will the government now support the proposal for ratification and legislative change, as recommended by the International Legal Commission, so that Norway can give an arrest warrant against Putin while strengthening Norway's national and international legal protection against attacks by foreign powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e449	As the representative said, this was the proposal that Red delivered at the beginning of the meeting. When I get that kind of proposal from the Storting, the representative's party always gets a long answer that is a more thorough review of the different aspects of such a proposal. It has never been such that a proposal has been submitted in the morning, and that a minister stands ten minutes later and says yes or no, and that is not the case this time either. So we're going to have to wait for a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e454	Then I have a good news. We also proposed this in 2020. It was for careful consideration in Stortinget, and the Labour Party took a position on the proposal, which is therefore identical to our proposal in 2022. The interesting thing is that Denmark was very clear at the time as to why they would not ratify the agreement as proposed. It was because they wanted to have the opportunity to go to war without a UN mandate. That is also why the major acts of Russia and the United States are opposed to ratifying the agreement. If the government were to say no to strengthen Norway's legal protection against attacks, and is also in favour of blocking Norwegian contributions to the investigation and conviction of Putin for an attack war, is it because the Norwegian government wants to have the same space of action as the Danish government, which explicitly said they would have the opportunity to go to war of attack without a UN mandate in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e461	There were very many and comprehensive questions at once. Firstly, it has been important for Norway to have a basis for international law for the military operations in which we have participated, and in these issues there has often been a fundamental disagreement between the Workers' Party and Red. Take, for example: the question of the Kurds' fight against ISIL, which Red has characterized as yes, they support the Kurds' struggle, but they would not join in and support the participation of Norwegian soldiers in this struggle. This is one of several differences in security policy between the Red Party and the Workers' Party. Nor do I share the relative approach that Moxnes has as a basic premise in the security policy, that there are two major powers that are closest to each other, the United States and Russia, and then Norway is going to take a different stance from these. So here we're essentially dividing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e467	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e472	The fundamental difference is that Red is against attack war no matter who carries it out, even if it should be our allies who stand for it. Now, the situation is that Russia is grossly violating international law, seriously invading Ukraine, and must be strongly condemned and must also face sanctions for this. But we also need to do what we can at the same time to ensure that those responsible for the war of attacks can be investigated and can be judged for this gross crime. This has been a well-known proposal for many years, discussed in Stortinget for several rounds, well known for the Workers' Party, I would think, and ratified by a number of other countries, including in Eastern Europe, which have feared Russian aggression. So it's very interesting if the Minister of Foreign Affairs doesn't know the proposal and can give a kind of view of this proposal in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e479	I don't think it's whether we would say that this proposal is good or not, which would determine how Russia is now acting. I don't think it's that if Norway had said we'd go in for this, there would have been another situation in Russia. I also think the representative should be quite humble about that. So if we had gone in for the proposal that Red initially delivered here, we wouldn't have been in that situation. That's not how the world is. Of course, I will consider all the proposals and look at them carefully and carefully, but the problem in international law today is not a lack of regulations; the problem is that they are not followed. The problem is that there is often no power behind the requirements, and the problem is that there is often a lack of willingness to follow up. There is no lack of international rules. There is a lack of willingness to follow them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e484	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e489	I guess neither Red nor anyone else thinks that ratification of the Appendix would have stopped the invasion of Ukraine -- that's not what was really the question. But it's interesting if the government blocks the ratification of a supplement that will enable both the investigation and the punishment of the leaders responsible for the war of attacks, because it doesn't think it would have stopped Russia's international invasion of Ukraine. There has also been a desire from a number of Eastern European countries and many others — including from the International Judicial Commission — to ratify the Appendix. Then, of course, it is best to be the enemy of the good, but it is strange if we have a government that supports the UN Charter's prohibition of attack wars – which is crystal clear – but at the same time does not want to include a supplement in Norwegian legislation that will enable us both to investigate and to judge other leaders to break the ban. I think that's a strange logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e496	I take note of that as a point of view. So I don't think it had changed the situation in Ukraine right now, but there's a different view of what this attack war involves, is probably pretty basic between our two parties. Immediately Norway participates in a military operation, almost wherever it is, Red opposes it. There will always be a great deal of dilemmas associated with participating in international operations, but to say in principle no, as Red does, or to call all the assault wars, as Red does: There we disagree. I also disagree with the relativization that Red uses here. There is no lack of rules; there is a lack of follow-up to international rules of international law that is the fundamental problem in the international community today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e503	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e508	The question asked by the representative of Moxnes is a very complicated one, among other things. the question of the politicisation of the courts has been a recurring issue. This is also why Norway has been skeptical in the negotiations that have taken place, both in Kampala and in so far also related to ratification. It is a big question to address, and I think it also makes sense to have a broad review of it, as it was also done in connection with this proposal for a representative. But my question also applies further to being able to punish and to be able to show the resistance to the war, and it concerns the sanctions. It is very likely that up to several Russian actors will do what they can to try to circumvent the sanctions. It can be through e.g. complex corporate structures, such as shell companies, tax havens, straw and cryptocurrency, to mention something. My question is how the Norwegian authorities will work against circumvention of sanctions, preferably with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e515	Now the representative points to a fundamental challenge, because in the case of the international capital market, it will often be difficult to identify who owns the companies, and therefore there will probably be a dynamic in these sanctions along the way, because we have a clear objective of hitting the oligarchs, hitting the decision-makers who have been involved in this machinery, and hitting some politicians. Then it will always be so that companies will be set up that will get away. These sanctions are totally fundamental to the Russian elite, and some people are trying to get away from it. But it will be dynamic, and also in this area, it is absolutely essential to have good communication with European colleagues. There is a dynamic in these sanctions that evolves almost from hour to hour, and that also reflects the conversations I have with my colleagues every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e520	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e525	The most important fight for freedom and democracy now stands in Ukraine, and we must support Ukrainians in their fight. We're doing it with weapons, we're doing it with material. We also have a responsibility within the UN, which is responsible for protecting. Now I'm not going to go into the proposal from Red, we're going to take it when it comes, but we're responsible for protecting, i.e. «responsibility to protection». My question to the Council of State will then be: Is she aware that situations can arise again where one must protect, even militarily? And it's important that we don't sit in a position where this can be stopped by a veto in the UN of, for example. Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e533	Yeah, I'm aware of that. We've been in similar situations in history before. There are always many dilemmas associated with this. The UN mandate is essential for Norway, but we have also done other actions, including: to prevent genocide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e538	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e543	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The war in Ukraine is brutal and has major consequences, primarily at human level, but it also has consequences for the energy markets in Europe and Norway. Several countries are now notifying of increased renewable energy investment as a result of the situation we are seeing. Today, we could read that gas prices in Europe are now at the highest ever. So we are approaching a price of EUR 200 per MW, while the usual price for the last 10-12 years has been around EUR 20 per MW. It says something about what an extraordinary situation we're in. So my question is: What assessments have the Council of State and the Ministry of Oil and Energy made about the impact this has on energy markets in Europe and Norway and on the power market in Norway? We have already had a difficult situation in the power market in Norway, but not as demanding as in the rest of Europe. What impact does the situation in Ukraine have on Norwegian energy and power policies in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e552	It is, as it was said, a brutal war, and the reports we get from there make a strong impression. Ukraine's inhabitants are hit very hard. The representative then argues that this also affects the energy market. It is also partly a misguided policy, precisely because the sanctions that we have agreed on also affect the energy market as such. As far as the assessments are concerned, there is no doubt that the most important thing we can do to keep prices down, because they are driven by gas prices, which are now high, is to invest more in renewable energy. I have good conversations with my colleagues in Europe about how we should do it, but it is clear that they are still quite dependent on gas. As I said earlier, our main role there is to be a stable contributor to the gas market. We have an offensive attitude in Norway when it comes to, among other things. sea wind. We believe that it is one of the important things we can do to get a lot of new energy on Norwegian base, renewable energy. There we have now given a mission to find new areas in addition to the Southern North Sea and the Utsira North. Then we have to look at how we can start a concession treatment related to wind power. There we have the formulations, to which the Storting has joined, about local anchoring, and we're working on it. We're also going to look at upgrading existing hydropower plants. Then we have to work with Europe to help them also have a holistic view of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e563	I think it would make sense if the Minister of Oil and Energy would eventually come back to the Storting and give a broader explanation of the consequences of this, if – as it looks now – the war persists for a long time. It is not given that this is over in a short time. In any case, the sanctions regime will be in place, but war acts in Ukraine may also continue for a long time and may have major consequences for the energy markets in Norway and in Europe, above all. But I'm glad the Council of State is pulling out the sea wind and the potential there. Will it now be appropriate, in the light of the current situation, to provide for the development and announcement of phase two on the Southern North Sea II, which is the most advanced project and is the closest to being realized? Can we also expect that Utsira Nord will be forced as a result of the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e570	We work as fast as we can with sea wind on Norwegian Sockets and Southern North Sea II and Utsira Nord, and have declared these areas. What they're going to look like is now at the hearing. So we'll get back to it, and I'll do everything I can to get us started quickly, and that we can also expand more than the areas that lie there. Then I would like to comment that it is difficult to predict how this will turn out in the future markets. But I want to be very clear that the government has also set up for ordinary people here at home, with the power support system. And I want to be clear that we're going to continue to set up in the future as well. It's a little too early to finally conclude on what kind of consequences the sanctions and Russia's invasion of Ukraine have for the gas price, but I'd like to come back to talk more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e577	There will be follow-up questions – first Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e582	We agree that sea wind can become an important piece in this, we agree that Norwegian gas is important, and we have to keep pressure on it, and there have been many rounds of it earlier today. We also agree, I think, that in the short picture, Europeans cannot fire their gas stoves with heat pumps. They must also have gas supplies. But some of what we can contribute to is more sea wind. The additional energy message has still not been provided, and it is therefore not too late for the government to determine, in the supplementary message, that phase two of the Southern North Sea II is to be expanded with hybrid cables, and that we can get started with that process as well. So my question is: Is it not relevant for the government, or is there any government now going to consider in the light of the fact that the situation is completely different from that of the government when the members of the Vippetangen were standing on top of the sea wind and put forward the bet on the sea wind earlier this winter? And will it be relevant for the government to continue the power support system, in view of the fact that we can expect very high current prices in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e589	What's very important for me to clarify is that it's the first phase of the 1,500 MW we've said we want in a radial to Norway. Then the Ministry of Oil and Energy, by me, has sent a mission to the NVE to assess this. It is exactly the same thing as the previous government announced in the Energy for Work paper, which was presented in June, that this needs to be investigated, and we have done so. We'll get back to that, and it'll also be mentioned in the Energy Communication. But that mission, along with identifying new areas, has been sent to the NVE. So it's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e594	Ove Trellevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e599	As a result of the war in Ukraine plan the EU now for that 40 pst. of the gas they import from Russia, not coming. The European Commission has also pointed to natural gas as an important source of the energy transition Europe is going through in order to achieve the climate objectives. In addition, of course, there is a very strong focus on renewable energy. Norway should have had a strategy to contribute more to security of supply in terms of both gas and sea wind energy to the EU. But it looks like it's a little bit different strategy. Gas pipes to the continent are quite ok, but hybrid cables create very big debate in the government. But why is there such a big and fundamental difference in strategy in these areas when the EU is asking for both?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e605	In 2021 Russian gas stood for about 32 pst. of the gas consumption of the EU and the United Kingdom. As I have just explained, the government has commissioned the NVE to determine the network solution to be used for the next 1500 MW on the South North Sea II. After the NVE has investigated the effects on the power system of different sea wind connection solutions, we should consider this. We don't want to stop at 3000 MW on the South North Sea II; we want regular opening of new areas in the future. Therefore, a thorough investigation of the marine network is important. We must have plans for the necessary capacity, so that the actors also know what they have to do with. We're busy working together. The previous government also pointed out that we have to investigate the effects of this, and that is what we have started. Then we'll decide when we've got the investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e610	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e615	I am delighted to welcome the Minister for Transport to Question Time. The Minister for Transport has a written question, No. 1241, by Terje Halleland from the Progress Party, with an overview of the road project mentioned in NTP 2022-2033 and the road project mentioned in the Innst comments. 653 S for 2020-2021, starting during the first planning period. The Minister of Transport has done well for what the State Road Administration has put into its implementation plan for the period from 2022 onwards, which shows that the State Road Administration has not taken into account that Stortinget’s plurality wants the following projects to start early in the first planning period. It applies to rv. 282 Holmenbrua, rv. 15 Styrnefelt with arm to Geiranger, E34 Bakka–Solheim, E14 Stjørdal–Storlien, E39 Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset, rv. 13 Vikabergellet and E16 Ferne's south hand. Is the Minister for Transport behind the State Road Service's proposal for an action programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e622	It is important to note that what the State Road Administration has presented is their implementation plan. It is their interpretation of Storting's treatment of the national transport plan. It's true, as the representative Sve says now, there were also a number of sections that had a majority behind them in the Stortinget. What's also worth noting is that there wasn't a single majority on how to finance these projects. But what I have recently written to the committee, on request, is that we now want – in the light of the mission that Stortinget has given us, that we should go through road standards and how we should develop roads – to also look at the entire portfolio. That is, I want to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the projects for which there were majority comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e627	A large majority in Stortinget has been very clear on these eight projects. These are potable projects where it is more than ready to use full gas when it comes to planning. That is what the party of the Council of State, the Labour Party, has also said in the Stortinget. So my further question is: is the Council of State really behind the position of its own party in Stortinget, or is it the state's road system that kind of governs the government now, and that governs what development should be like? Because it is very special that such a clear and clear order from Stortinget is not carried out by the State Road Administration. This is an important road project that has a wide number of people behind it. So is the Council of State standing behind its own party, or is it the State Road Service that rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e632	I've just said that we're going to take the entire portfolio, that's what there were majority comments behind, into an assessment and come back to the Stortinget about how we're going to handle these projects. Then I have to repeat that it wasn't a total funding of all those projects. But I agree that there are a lot of important projects here. Some of these projects have also been identified by the State Road Service as planning projects for the next phase. So we're going to get back to Stortinget with it in the appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e637	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e642	It was quite right that the Minister of Transport stayed standing, it is nice to see him in the oral questioning. We go a little further where Frank Edvard Sve ended, because the Minister of Transport says there was a little bit different funding of the NTP between the different parties. That's right: the Labour Party and the Center Party added extra billions to the planning framework and was very eager to bring in more projects. There were ten-to-twelve projects listed, but there were six projects on which the main agreement was to be implemented. Then the Minister of Transport has so much black that the Road Administration has pointed out something else, and that they are now going through the portfolio. So what I'm really wondering is: is it now that the agencies kind of govern the Minister of Transport, or is it he who governs the agencies? It also seems to be the case in other questions: Avinor is referred to when important decisions are to be made on aerodromes, for rail it refers to what the stations have responded to, etc. So is it that the Council of State has abdicated and left to the institutions to design the transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e651	I'm standing here, so I've barely abdicated. It is that the Storting, on a proposal from the previous government, has approached what we call portfolio management. In other words, the way you think about it gives both the State Road Service and the Bane NOR a greater degree of freedom, in the sense that it's going to work with portfolios. It's because history has been such that we have had a number of unfortunate examples of cost gaps and projects that have been difficult to implement. Therefore, the portfolio management tool has come up and forth. This means that the agencies have a greater degree of freedom to prioritise within the total portfolio to which the Stortinge has joined in connection with the national transport plan. So it will be – as it always is – so that corruption and government prioritize by presenting the major projects to the Stortinget for treatment, with cost frameworks and everything, and then the Stortinget makes decisions in a normal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e660	Thank you for that answer. I can take a concrete example. The council has just been asked by SV about the progress of a known project for some of us, Ringeriksbanen. The Council of State answers that start-up will take place in 2024 — at the earliest — or in 2025. On 9 September, a current prime minister, Masud Gharahkhani, said: «From the Workers' Party we are crystal clear that the work on the Ringerix track will be started in 2022. We are the best guarantor for a quick start." It seems that the election promises have been forgotten, that the NTP’s majority comment on following the planned progress plan is parked, and that the entire NTP is now moving away from Storting’s decision. What's happened? Is transport a priority, or is the cost of reversing the rail reform so high that it will mean postponement of important railway projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e670	That's when the granddaughter's president is excited about the answer. State Council Nygård – please. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e678	It is now the case that, in the case of the Ringeriksbahn and the FRE16 project, the previous government has given it the project to New Roads, and part of that mandate and agreement is to review and optimise the projects in order to reduce costs and benefit. That's what you're working on. In connection with the national transport plan, it has been noted that there is no desire to delay the process, but from my point of view there is nothing else to report on the progress than that there is 2024 Stortinget at the time had as possible the start of the Ringeriksbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e685	There will be follow-up questions – first Erlend Larsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e690	It may seem that the new government leaves the national transport plan in more areas than the examples just mentioned by the representative of Greece. In Bodø, there is a expectation that a new aerodrome will be built so that areas will be freed for the necessary urban development. I understand that two years of Korona has weakened Avinor's ability to make investments, but this is more than Avinor's ability to contribute. This is about social development, not least as a result of the withdrawal of the defence from Bodø. Then the government must mean something, and what they think about new airport in Bodø seems very unclear. In January, Avinor announced that a new aerodrome had been delayed to 2029. A little later, in a speech in Tromsø, Prime Minister Støre said that they should keep the schedule by 2027. This timetable has not been confirmed by either Prime Minister or Minister of Transport, nor in response to a written question I recently sent to the Council of State. Can the Council of State answer yes or no if the government has a plan to complete a new airport in Bodø in 2027?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e699	Let me first say that we agree that ‘New City — New Airport’ is an important measure for Bodø and for the region, and we are very aware that the Stortinget has made a decision to move on with that project. It is also important to note that in the decision-making basis and the size at that time it was very clear that Avinor was going to take the final decision. It was obvious to everyone, I think. At least it should be clear to those who tabled that draft budget, that is to say to the previous government, and we did not make any changes on that point. It's really no secret that Avinor's economy is stressed and stressed by the pandemic. I think they're all going inwards. This means that Avinor has chosen to postpone a number of projects, including this. Then we've said from our side that we want to have dialogue with Avinor and follow that situation closely, and we'll of course see how we can get this project going in a good and planned way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e706	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e720	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Development, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Marius Arion Nilsen to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. Questions 6 and 7 from representatives Terje Halleland and Rauand Ismail respectively to the Minister for Climate and Environment must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Seher Aydar to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Bjørn Moxnes. Question 27, from the representative of Ola Elvesuen to the Minister for Economic Affairs, is proposed at the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs to be moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e748	This question is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e762	This question is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e770	‘In a statement in the Defence Forum on 6 February of this year, it appears that the scope of unaccompanied foreign service, course or education posts, known as ‘functional absences’, has increased. How will the Council of States follow up to reduce this functional absence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e777	Thank you for the question. It is quite right that there are not insignificant challenges of absenteeism in both education, training, leave and other internal conditions. It's something that every business has to deal with and plan for, because it's not just in defense, it's most of the way of working. So the defense must also be prepared for this. The Government is concerned that the Defence shall have a robust staff to meet challenges as such. That is why we also want to continue the ambitious multi-annual escalation plan for the Defence Operational Departments. This will also help to reduce the challenges of absenteeism. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that regardless of the manning situation, it is the defence and the responsibility of the individual head of department to provide the service in a way that ensures both health, the environment and safety, and that the activity is put at an adequate level. I am sure that the Defence and Defence Commissioners will take the best possible care of this. The Ministry of Defence will follow up the defence through the administration, and the defence is among others. entrusted with reporting without delay on material risks and deviations from the objectives and tasks of the establishment, so that they will emerge from the letters of assignment and from the instructions of the Defence Officer. It is also important to focus on the balance between tasks and resources allocated. The ambition of the government to step up with several annual works is therefore essential to reduce the challenge we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e790	Thanks for the answer. It is particularly important at these times that the defence has a maximum focus on its core mission, and then it is particularly important that the positions are occupied to the greatest extent possible. Is it possible to say what this absence may mean by reduced operational capability and, where appropriate, preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e795	Unfortunately, it is not possible for me to be precise on that on the standing foot. However, in the current situation, it is particularly important that the different departments in the Defence Department are aware of this and, if necessary, postpone the course or other absence that may be postponed, in order to have sufficient operational capability and preparedness in the situation we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e800	Also in the defence, it is important that skills are filled and further education is provided. However, I have seen from some other public agencies through reports that there has been little agreement between the further training you have taken and the use you have received for it afterwards. So the question is: Will the Minister take a more thorough look at this competence need – what are the competences that are more ‘nice to have’ and what are the competences that are ‘need to have’ – just to strengthen the overall competence of the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e805	That's a very good question that's being asked. The defence has a special challenge with some of the employment relationships that, as we know, expire at the age of 35, where we have someone who has a shorter commitment, and who in this context also gets a lot of training and education to facilitate a future career after the Defense. I think that is also important to be continued. But this is a topic that we have to focus on, because it is important to have relevant refresher training, relevant training and education, while at the same time trying to facilitate those who will not be able to complete their entire professional career in Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e815	‘Maritime helicopter wings only plan to deliver approx. 200 days with NH90 to Coast Guard in 2022. This is far below ambition, and the NH90 remains a capacity that poses major challenges. In the following years an upgrade of the NH90 fleet, Block 2, with a cost estimate of 1.3 to 1.8 billion, is planned. kr towards 2028. Upgrading military materials is, as you know, very resource-intensive and reduces availability and capacity. How long will the Block 2 upgrade take and how will it affect the availability of the NH90 fleet?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e822	I have to say I share the Elves' concern about the availability of the NH90. We've also been on this topic in a previous questioning session. The availability of the NH90 in 2022 is very worrying, and so are the prospects for the next few years if we continue on the same track that we've done up to now. But I do not intend to continue in the same track as before. That is why I announced on 9 February that I would like to look at the entire maritime helicopter capacity and what kind of action space we have. I don't exclude going away from the NH90 in this context either. The defense, supported by the Defence Equipment and the Defence Research Institute, has now launched assessments of the entire maritime helicopter capacity. The aim is to provide a sound solution for the future. However, we must be prepared that it will take some time. The Ministry of Defence has received an assessment and recommendation regarding the lease-in of helicopter capacity to the Coast Guard in addition to the NH90. It shows that renting may be relevant as one of the options for parts of the Coast Guard tasks. The defense recommends that the rental issue be included as part of the assessment in the overall review of maritime helicopter capacity. It has also instructed the Ministry of Defence to do so. It will, of course, take some time before those assessments and recommendations are in place. At that time we have to use it in such a way that, in the future, we will have a proper maritime helicopter preparedness. So the question about Block 2. There is some uncertainty about this upgrade of the NH90 helicopters. This applies both in project planning and as a result of the overall assessment of maritime helicopter capacity. If this upgrade is recommended, the Magnitude will be promoted for approval. Any Block 2 upgrade will also adversely affect operational availability. It is therefore important to work to reduce the negative impacts as much as possible. Preliminary evaluation of the timeline suggests a two-step approach to the development of solutions from 2023 at the earliest. The upgrading of Norwegian NH90 is likely to take place at the earliest in the first half of the 2030s. This describes a little bit how challenging this situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e833	Then I understand the Minister's answer to that that you have not taken a decision on whether to start the Block 2 upgrade. And if it was to be launched against assumption, it would come at a later time than what you had first planned for. That's to the point of clarifying, but my question is, when will you decide whether to take this upgrade, and have the minister or department reflected on what can alternatively get out of the 1.8 billion. kr, e.g. for the purchase or rental of other helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e838	That's exactly the assessment we're currently in, and I think we first need to make an overall assessment of the maritime helicopter capabilities before we decide whether to implement Block 2, because we're not throwing good money after bad money. One thing is the cost of completing Block 2, but we also have large annual operating costs with the NH90 without getting the hourly production we need, which we were going to have out of the NH90. So the answer is, first, we're doing an overall assessment of how we can solve the capacity, in both the short and the long term, in the best possible way. Then we will decide whether to implement Block 2 and whether it would be reasonable and necessary to do so. If the Block 2 upgrade becomes applicable, that project will be submitted to Stortinget at the earliest in spring 2023 as part of the planned investment proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e845	The Coast Guard just came up with its annual report for 2021, and the number of helicopter days that have been available to the Coast Guard is alarmingly low. I want to warn you that we're going into a situation where this availability gets even lower. I suppose that's in our common interest not going to happen. The Minister repeats that he will now review the maritime helicopter capacity overall in order to conclude. The question then arises: When do you see that this question has been concluded and will take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e852	That mission has now been given to the Defence Agency, with a mandate to look at both a short-term solution with rental and a long-term solution, which also means whether the NH90 should be part of that structure or not in the future – as I have said before. This is working intensively, and the paradox is that if we implement Block 2 now, operational capability will be even worse in such an implementation. So it's also necessary to spend some time looking at the whole concept, especially in the situation we're in right now. So I wish I could give an exact answer when I want to come back. I can't do that, unfortunately. The defense must have this investigation done in a thorough manner, so that we now make some decisions that stand for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e864	This question is answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e869	‘The electricity prices we have experienced in the last half of the year are largely due to the fact that the EU has, over time, pursued a poorly thought-out energy and climate policy, where climate action has been given priority over sound energy policies and security of supply. Such strong and rapid climate action results in high costs for the population and business. With lessons from this – will the government take the initiative to include forests in Norwegian climate accounts and use quota purchases to a greater extent, rather than costly and inefficient climate measures such as electrification and the like?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e876	Thank you for the question from the representative. I have to say that I do not share the representative's analysis of the reason for the high power prices we have experienced in the last year – but that is not the question. As I understand it, the issue of government, in order to avoid climate action in Norway, is going to count on the inclusion of CO 2 in the climate account in the forest and to use quota purchases to a greater extent in order to achieve Norway's climate targets. Neither do I share the views of the representative here. On the contrary, I believe that economies early in the green transition will strengthen their own competitiveness. Therefore, the government in its political platform has signaled that we will cut emissions by 55 pst. compared to 1990, as a partial target, well and mark, on the road towards net zero emissions by 2050. That is why we have also said that we will continue Norway’s climate cooperation with the EU and further develop cooperation to include a strategic industrial partnership that strengthens Norway’s ability to create jobs across the country, which are green, profitable and future-oriented. This work started last week when the Prime Minister met the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. As regards the role of forests in the Norwegian greenhouse gas emission accounts, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has explained this to the Stortinget in the past, among others. in the ordinary Question Time on 24 November last year. There he explained why the government does not expect all the inclusion of forest in the achievement of Norway's climate objectives under the Paris Agreement. If we were to count on all forest uptake, in the same way as the EU, this would significantly weaken our climate target, and such calculation would also be contrary to the principles of the Paris agreement on progress and the highest possible level of ambition. Therefore, the government has no plans to take initiatives to change how we expect to absorb forest in the assessment of the Norwegian climate target. We actually aim to achieve the climate target. I also want to remind you that there is actual emission cut that matters to the world, not calculation methods. That's not what determines whether we're going to stop global warming or not. With regard to the issue of the use of quota purchases to a greater extent, I believe it is a matter of outside-EU quota purchases, as Norway will meet its climate change target in cooperation with the EU. The climate agreement with the EU consists of three pillars, as the representative knows: the EU's farm quota system, the contribution distribution for sectors such as transport, agriculture and waste, and the forestry and land-use legislation. Norway participates in the effort allocation with a target of 40 pst. emission reduction in 2030. Forest and land-use legislation means a measure that emissions from the sector shall not exceed the uptake, the so-called net zero obligation. These obligations can be met in several ways, including through the purchase of credits from EU countries, and as of now Norway has not purchased any such allowances. By 2050, Norway will be a low-carbon society, and we need to start that transformation right now. It is essential to put in place rapid emission measures in Norway, and such cuts must be at the heart of a strategy for economic growth, value creation, exports and jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e892	This question was sent only hours before the Russian invasion of Ukraine started last week. It is a tragic, pointless war, which I hope with all my heart will stop as quickly as possible. But this war shows even more the lack of thought and vulnerability of Europe's energy and climate policy, which has been leading the last decades and is still under way. Europe and the EU have cut down on regenerative nuclear power plants and basic power generation and made themselves highly vulnerable throughout the energy field, with 40 pst. of the gas imported from Russia. The Minister here says that climate action should work, not only in terms of quota purchases, and then I also assume that the climate minister will stop electrification of the socket, since it is not a climate action that works, but is moving emissions from Norway to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e899	What is happening in Ukraine is absolutely terrible. Russia is violating international law, and Norway strongly condemns the military action. In a very short time, Europe and the West have gathered on extremely severe sanctions, and they will have an effect. Then as a nation we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. Of course, we are concerned about the energy situation in Norway. We work together on energy policy with Europe. Norwegian natural gas is particularly important for Europe and is also an important source of income for Norway. At the same time, the need for the green shift does not stop. I've met over 200 companies in all the counties of the country in the last few months. I have not met one company that asks Norway to reduce its climate ambitions — rather, on the contrary. I'm meeting a business that's ahead of me, that's going to cut emissions, that's going to increase its green investment, create new jobs, and that's going to export green solutions to the world. So now turning Norway into a slowdown in climate change will not benefit Norwegian business, nor will it help the power situation we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e906	Then I don't quite know which company and business the minister has met, because everyone I meet is experiencing sky-high electricity prices, they are experiencing increased taxes, and they feel that their job and life's work are at risk. Worse still, there may be new demands, bans and climate taxes. It could be that this is the Council of State and the Government's plan: to defuse and defuse business so that they either go bankrupt or flagged out. It will reduce climate emissions in Norway, but it is not very thoughtful. That is a very bad policy. My question is then again: Will the government take over the new realities of the world, in the real world, that energy is power, understand that reasonable flow is vital to the population and business, and change climate policy, so that the population and business are not ruined by costly symbolism policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e913	My example in life is Sam Eyde, and Sam Eyde and Kristian Birkeland laid the foundation for the industrial venture Norsk Hydro in 1905, based on pure and reasonable Norwegian hydropower. It has been a pretense for Norwegian industry for all years, and the government has to work to ensure that it remains a pretense for Norwegian industry, Norwegian business and Norwegian households for all years to come. That is why energy and power policies are now working intensively to ensure that this is the case. This does not mean that we should reduce our climate ambitions – rather on the contrary. It is a world market out there that increasingly demands low carbon footprint products and services and that will have environmentally friendly solutions. I'm meeting a business in Norway that's all about this, which will export green solutions. To tell them that it's not so dangerous whether you cut emissions or not, or that we're going to trick a little with the numbers, to make it easier for the world's richest country to take global responsibility for really getting emissions down, while cutting other emissions and creating jobs in Norway – sending Norwegian companies would be a completely wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e936	Questions 6 and 7 are postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. So we go to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e946	‘Telenor will sell Telenor Myanmar to M1 Group, which several media have demonstrated that it has entered into a partnership with a local company linked to the military junta in Myanmar. The purpose of the sanctions rules, introduced by the EU and the United States, is to avoid adding values to the junta. Can the Council of State ensure that any sale of Telenor Myanmar would not result in a militaryly controlled company having access to the values of the company?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e953	Thank you for the question. As I have said before, even on several occasions in the Grand Duchy, what is happening in Myanmar, absolutely terrible, is primarily for the local population. I can assure you that this is a matter that concerns many people in Norway, including the representative and also those who have signed it. For Telenor, there are no good solutions to the situation in Myanmar. The company has made it clear that they have had to choose between alternatives that can all have serious consequences. Telenor indicates that non-compliance with local laws and regulations would pose a risk to the lives and health of employees. Recently, Telenor also informed that the company’s senior staff in Myanmar, including a Norwegian, are refused entry by the military junta. This is a very serious situation. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and I personally have had a number of meetings with the company on the situation in Myanmar. We have been concerned about how Telenor has assessed and balanced the different options, based on our expectations about, among other things. the responsible undertaking. And I can assure the representative that there are few other issues in which I have asked more questions to a board than in this particular case, to the board of directors of Telenor. However, according to company law and state ownership principles, it is the responsibility of the board of directors and management to decide how best to deal with the situation in Myanmar. It shall also apply as regards the framework within which the sale of the establishment and, where appropriate, other alternatives are subject, including the penalties applicable at all times. Of course, we expect all companies, regardless of their ownership, to be active in relation to the rules of penalties in force at all times, and not least to companies that are on the list of penalties in force at all times. In this context, too, I have stated that companies must make ongoing assessments of the situation and options for action. It has been important for me to make sure that the Telenor board does not lock itself into a corner based on past facts in the matter, but that they continually assess this situation and at any time do what they think is best on the basis of an overall assessment, where many factors are involved – the safety of employees, the consideration of 18 million mobile customers and, in general, other issues that are important in such an assessment situation. Telenor points to the fact that there is just concern about human rights and the danger of a breach of Norwegian and European sanctions, which means that Telenor has no choice but to sell Telenor Myanmar. The company also shows that Telenor has assessed all alternatives and found that sales are the least unfavourable solution for employees, customers and society around it, and that the sales process has led to numerous and thorough assessments relating to sanctions, human rights, privacy and the security of employees and others involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e968	The sale should be formal to the M1 Group, but there is no doubt – when you go into this – that it is the company Westicom that is going to take over, with its strong ties to the military junta. Reuters says that the Shwe Byain Phyu group will take over 80 pst. on the control of what is today Telenor Myanmar. Since Norway and the Norwegian State are the main owners of Telenor, there is a risk that any sale would have adverse effects on Norway, because funds are transferred to something controlled by the junta, although Shwe Byain Phyu is not currently on a penalty list. Has the Department made an independent assessment of whether this is correct and of whether the money will end up with the military junta?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e975	As I said, the department has ongoing dialogue with the Telenor board. We've had a number of meetings, it also had the previous government, when this situation first arose. We have asked many questions, and I have engaged myself strongly in the matter. It is the telenor board that has to make the assessment and make the decision on what is best in order to safeguard all the interests of the company, including, of course, the safety of employees, considering 18 million mobile customers, taking into account the fact that one operates in a country with a very brutal military regime, which has shown what they are capable of doing, both by representatives and other extremely violent activities. In that situation, there are no simple solutions. But we expect, as I said, that all companies are actively dealing with sanctions rules and the sanctions lists in force at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e980	I hope that the Council of State does more than just ask questions, because a government listens to a clear owner with a clear position, as we have seen in connection with Equinor – without me knowing the process – withdrawing from Russia in the light of the invasion of Ukraine and the situation there. We're in a similar situation in Myanmar in many ways. Myanmar is the only regime – at least as far as I know – that actively supports Russia in the invasion of Ukraine. We are then in a situation where those who fight for democracy and freedom in Myanmar are at risk of having their metadata in Telenor transferred to the regime, and they will then be used. Then one has to weigh things up against another: there is a risk for the employees, but a much higher risk for 18 million customers – and the data can be deleted. Will the Council of States contribute to their deletion before a transfer is made?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e987	I can assure the representative that the questions he raises have been raised by many, including the undersigned. I can also assure you that the Telenor board has made very thorough adjustments for different reasons. As I said from Stortinget's pulpit in the previous round, there are also aspects of this case that, for the sake of the safety of the employees and others on the ground in Myanmar, cannot be communicated outwards. There are no simple solutions. The metadata that this refers to, that is, who called, where one was, and how long the call lasted, are data that is currently on the ground in Myanmar. This is a country with a very brutal military regime that can, in principle, penetrate any data centre or any data storage facility and ask for its delivery, with the fatal consequences it may have for those present if those orders are not followed. So you shouldn't make it like there are some simple solutions here, because it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e996	Then we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1004	‘Leaders in the Transport and Communications Committee of the Stortingen have come out in the media to scale down several important road and rail projects across the country. The State Road Service also presented its plan for the implementation of the National Transport Plan a short time ago, in which several of the government parties’ priorities in the NTP were not included. Is the government’s future priorities such that highways and racial protection will take precedence over the development of the main road network with effective corridors between the major cities and regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1011	Spring 2000 was the year for the national transport plan 2022–2033 and showed a broad political consensus on continued commitment to transport infrastructure. Infrastructure such as road, rail, ports, ferries and airports bind Norway together and, of course, are crucial for settlement and jobs throughout the country. The government and my priority is to pursue a transport policy that ensures that people and goods arrive quickly and safely, where good infrastructure provides the basis for living local environments and profitable jobs. I agree that the route and race protection has been down-prioritised by the outgoing right-wing government, and that is why we in the Hurdals platform have stated that an obliging plan for upgrading the county roads is to be drawn up and a national implementation plan is drawn up for the race and tailoring of all highways and highways with a high and medium step factor. With regard to the individual sections that Erling Sande has stated that it is to be scaled down or postponed on time, it is to be borne in mind. The main purpose of the play was probably to raise a debate. The government, on its part, suggests that the national transport plan should be implemented. Then it is, and it is important to note, in the national transport plan that projects, mentioned in the communication, should be further worked on with a view to increasing the benefits and reducing costs. And it will be that being mentioned in the National Transport Plan is no guarantee of implementation, regardless of, among other things. cost development of the project. In examining the State budget for 2022, the Stortinget decided to make an assessment of the road portfolio in the national transport plan to contribute to the effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. This review will also assess the road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of quadruple roads, and I think it is right that we make an overall assessment of the portfolio, including the projects supported by a majority of the Stortinget with comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1022	At any rate, I can begin by stating that the Council of State rejects the playoff of the Central Party's top management of transport policy as irrelevant. But I had hoped that it was possible to be a little bit more concrete than what the Council of State is. Yes, there's a lot of uncertainty, and there's no problem in being able to create uncertainty. And in addition to the playoffs that Sande has been out with, the council itself has created uncertainty and confusion with answers to a written question from me, among other things. on Bakka–Solheim, where the Council of State denies that this will be followed up, while the action plan of the State Road Administration re-emphasises the project and states that this is something to be planned. Then is my follow-up question to the Council of State: Who am I supposed to listen to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1029	It is such that the State Road Administration is making an implementation plan. It is the State Road Service’s tool to re-code the national transport plan, to be prepared to implement the projects that are subsequently promoted for the Storting with a cost framework and which, hopefully, are decided. That's the way it has to be. If not, the State Road Service could not be prepared to handle the projects that had to be submitted for treatment. It is not right that I have ‘refused’. The formula I used was probably "at this point in time". And what we have black Stortinget now, in a formal letter to the committee, is that we see that it is natural to review the distances and the projects that stood behind the majority remarks, in connection with the fact that we are also going to review road standards and road speed limits in the mission we received from the Stortinget in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1036	I find it hard to hear that the Council of State has changed its mind, because it is not possible to write it more clearly than the answer I received earlier on written questions, that this was a project for which there was no majority. That the Council of State takes on the fact that there are a majority of several projects after the Storting's treatment of NTP, I really hope that he will follow up. I would like to take a follow-up question about the importance of these projects, asking when he expects to come back to Stortinget with information about further progress on the projects mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1043	I don't want to celebrate it exactly now, but it will be during this year. Then we will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the total portfolio. It's also important to repeat something that I said earlier today, in the spontaneous question time, that it's actually so that although there's been a majority of a number of projects, there's no obvious consensus on funding these projects. It's a challenge that we have to face, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1052	‘In a case on NRK 7 February, the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Erling Sande, is in charge of downsizing several motorway projects, mentioning, inter alia, the E39, at the same time asking whether four-field motorways between the major cities are really necessary. Does this view represent the level of ambition of the government for the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1059	A broad political agreement on continued investment in transport infrastructure was reached in the fourth year’s review of the national transport plan for 2022-2033. Roads, railways, ports, ferries and airports bind Norway together, and it is absolutely vital for us to be able to get good housing and jobs across our country. The government and my priority is to implement a transport policy that ensures that people and goods arrive quickly and safely. Good infrastructure is the basis for living local environments and profitable workplaces. I agree that race protection and county road were a priority of the outgoing government. That is why, in the Hurdal platform, we have determined that we should establish an obligatory plan for upgrading the county road and draw up a national implementation plan for racial and tailor-made protection of all highways and county roads with a high and medium step factor. With regard to the individual sections that Erling Sande's representative said, and said that it should be scaled down and postponed in time, it would be on his account. The purpose of his play was probably to raise a debate, and of course we have to endure that. The government, on its part, suggests that the national transport plan should be implemented. With regard to concrete E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, I would like to show that this is an important national transport corridor that forms part of the trans-European transport network, TEN-T. New road safety E39 will link important parts of South Norway and provide efficient transport of goods and people between Western and Eastern countries. Today’s E39, with which the representative is probably familiar, has a poor standard in relation to the function of highway and European road, and in terms of accessibility and road safety. On 25 June 2021, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation adopted a municipal plan on the route E39 Lzgal West-Sandnes. The decision adds ground four-field road over the entire route. As I also said in the previous round here, it is in the national transport plan that the projects mentioned in the notification should be further worked on with a view to increasing the benefits and reducing costs. The mention in NTP is no guarantee of implementation, irrespective of the cost development of the project. In examining the State budget for 2022, Stortinget decided that we should make an assessment of the road portfolio in the National Transport Plan in order to contribute to the effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. That review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1074	I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear and say that this should be planned as a four-field motorway. In the 2013 election campaign, the Progress Party was the only party to choose on the four-field motorway between Kristiansand and Stavanger. It was an important breakthrough for us when we were in government. I am pleased that the new government has now said that they should follow it up, and that the play from the representative Erling Sande is something that must be on his account. Just to be absolutely sure, since there is a lot of unnecessary uncertainty about this, I will give the Council of State an opportunity to put this dead once and for all: can the Council of State guarantee that what he answered to the representative Halleland on 5 January 2022, that there is a four-field highway and 110 km/h that is fixed for the planning of the route, is that government to implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1081	That is what underpins the implementation of the project. So I have to repeat what I said in my previous post, that there is no absolute guarantee of implementation to be mentioned in the national transport plan. It will depend on the cost development of the project, on the ability to reduce costs and increase the benefits of the project. With that reservation, I can confirm what the representative says.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1086	Now that we have been told that the head of the Transport Committee and the Central Party's leading spokesperson on transportation is without success for this project, I do not need a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1091	Does the Council of State want the word again? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1099	‘In several media cases in the last few days, the chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee, Erling Sande, has arranged for the construction of motorway sections with a speed limit of 90 km/h and has not built them for a speed limit of 110 km/h. At the latest in the NRK Political Quarter on 10 February, Sande stated that this was building smarters. Does the Council of State think this is a smarter way of building the main road network in the time to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1106	I would like to show that the Ministry of Transport is now in the process of complying with the Storting's Decision 35, subsection 23, of 2 December 2021, cf. Inner. 2 S for 2021-2022. The Ministry of Transport has been asked to carry out an assessment of the road portfolio in the National Transport Plan in order to contribute to the effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. The review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field motorways. On a general basis, I can say that of course I am concerned that we should facilitate the establishment of effective road links between our big cities. This includes, inter alia: important for developing well-functioning housing and labour market regions. At the same time, it is important that we build roads in a socially sound way, so that we get as much back for the money that we invest. Of course, it is also important that we focus on the environment when building large road projects. And then I don't want now to prejudge the outcome of the work that we're doing in assessing road standards. I will come back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1115	The Minister of Transport answers a little evasively and a little around this question. I ask the question one more time: Does the Minister for Transport agree with Erling Sande that it is a smarter way to deploy the main road network in the future to have a speed limit of 90 km/h?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1120	It is not possible to answer that question categorically, because we have received a mission from Stortinget where we have been asked to investigate it, and then it will be quite unwise for a council to pre-conclusion before the investigation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1125	I perceive that the Minister of Transport is avoiding answering the question. I can help the Minister of Transport a little bit on the way. 90 km/h means two-field roads. Two-way roads have been built in Norway in the past, which has proved to be yesterday's solution after the spade was put in the ground. There are enough examples of this, for example in Westfold, Telemark and Agder. Quite new sections are built into four-field roads afterwards, precisely because there were yesterday's solutions. We also know that four-field roads contribute to increased road safety. And yes, that also means less climate emissions, because there's another curve and other slope ratio, which will be good for society as a whole. Does the Minister for Transport agree that it is wise to build four-field roads and non-meeting roads, precisely because of safety, with fewer hard damage and death, and actually lower emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1132	Just some of these elements that the representative now addresses will be important to assess in such an investigation, because no one wants to go back to a type of thinking where you build too badly. But that's also the case, I've let myself tell you, we're among the countries that have the lowest entry point to build quadruple roads, and then at least it's interesting to see why it's like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1141	It is gratifying to note that, fortunately, the central party's leading transport policy has no impact on its own government, and that we do not need... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1146	The President will point out that the representative shall deal with the text of the question submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1151	«In the construction industry on 7 February, it appears to be the head of the Transport and Communications Committee at Stortinget, Erling Sande [[Centre Party]] Is this a unique solo game from the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, or supports Sande's goal of not realizing double tracks for Hamar and beyond to Lillehammer and further four-field highway development of Rv. 4, rv. 25, E6 and E16?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1158	As I also said in a previous post here, the spring globalisation of the National Transport Plan 2022–2033 showed that there was a broad political consensus on a continued commitment to transport infrastructure. Roads, railways, ports, ferries and airports bind Norway together and are crucial for housing and jobs throughout Norway. My priority and the government's priority is to pursue a transport policy that ensures that people and goods arrive quickly and safely, and that there is good infrastructure that underpins living local environments and profitable jobs. So I agree that the highways and race protection were down priority of the outgoing right-hand government. For this reason, the Hurdal Platform has established that an obligatory plan for upgrading county roads should be established, and a national implementation plan should also be drawn up for the racial and tailor-made protection of all highways and highways with a high and medium pace. In the case of these individual sections, which the representative Sande said were to be scaled down or postponed on time, it is on his account. I think, as I also said in the previous post, that it was his intention to raise a debate on standards and how we dimension roads. It's always interesting with political debates, which, as a result of this, we get here today. The government, for its part, assumes that we will implement the national transport plan, and that also includes the sections, etc. 25 Hamar-Løten, rv. 4 Roa–Gran border, E6 Moelv–Øyer and E16 Kongsvinger–E6. With regard to the development of double tracks at intercity, the government wants to pursue offensive railway policies and priorities – to develop them for the benefit of travellers and freight companies. The ambition of intercity is firm. The pace of implementation must, of course, be adapted to the planning framework as a result of the national transport plan and follow-up in the annual budgets. The implementation of these start-up power packages will in the future provide us with a significant improvement in the offer for travellers, both inside and outside intercity. The government will present its proposal to further realise the ambition of intercity in the next national transport plan. Then, as I have also said on several occasions here today, it is in the current national transport plan that we should continue to work on the projects mentioned in the notification with a view to increasing the benefits and reducing costs. It is not an absolute guarantee to be mentioned in the national transport plan with regard to implementation independently, inter alia. cost development of the project. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the Stortinget decided to review the road portfolio in the national transport plan in order to contribute to the follow-up of climate objectives. Then it would also be natural for us to look at how to find the right norm for four-field paths and how to develop them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1175	It sounds reassuring if the government wants to continue the bet for which the Progress Party provided the basis, both in the case of four-field motorways and double-tracks. So I wonder when we can get concrete evidence that it is the Minister of Transport who is right, not the Senter Party, since a solo politician – obviously – has run their own games that are not anchored in the government regarding the down-priorityisation of the main road network in the East, for example. When do we get proof of that? And then I wonder if the minister can guarantee the road projects that are already under way in the NTP – and the plan work has come a long way – as Rv. 4, E6 Lillehammer-Gudbrandsdalen, E16 to Kongsvinger, rv. 25, and not least that the Hamar railway will be completed by 2027, and that the four-field projects will be four-field, not two-field or two-three-field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1182	The government will always come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals for launching individual projects, as it has always been. It is through the budget that we are making visible the efforts we have in the national transport plan. Some of these sections that the representative mentions are in the portfolio of New Vei, and the representative knows very well how New Veier works with these projects. They work with planning processes in the same way as the State Road Service does, but they also work to increase the benefits and reduce costs of projects. I have no information now that they are going to build anything other than what has been planned so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1189	I then interpret the Minister of Transport so that the European highways in the interior and the highways are built with four fields, as we had planned, and as at least in the NTP. It's nice to have a confirmation of it, so there's no doubt among the residents, voters and businesses. Then I want a confirmation that the intercity of Hamar will at least be completed in 2027, because there I remember that the Workers' Party was quite critical of the previous government – that progress was too slow, that the intercity project was too slow. From this point of view, it is important to confirm from the Minister that the level of ambition and the basis that we laid for the completion of Åkersvika by 2027 is firm. Then it's especially important to get started with the bridge over the Tangenvika and the tunnel on the Tangen, because otherwise we're not going to get to Hamar by 2027.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1194	I can confirm that we don't have reduced ambitions regarding intercity. On the contrary, we have been even clearer than the previous government that we want to implement the intercity project in its entirety. I can assure the representative of that. As I said in my previous answer, the New Roads have these projects that the representative mentioned, and they work as usual to increase the benefits of the projects and reduce costs. But I'm not familiar with anything that would mean going in for a different kind of dimensioning of these roads than what the representative is familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1202	‘The Council of State has stated that negotiations on an urban exchange rate for Tromsø cannot begin until the mandate for the negotiations is clear. Now it appears in one case in Tromsø that the mandate was prepared by the Solberg government as early as September. The government parties also said last spring that the negotiations had to start immediately, but this has still not happened. Is it true that the mandate was completed in September, that Tromsø is a priority of the government with regard to getting an urban change speech, and when can the negotiations begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1209	I can inform you that the Ministry of Transport received in September a draft mandate for the negotiations on the urban capital speech for Tromsø, from the State Road Administration. However, as indicated in the National Transport Plan, the mandate shall be established by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The final mandate is therefore set on the basis of a draft drawn up by the ETAs, and therefore no final mandate was established in September. As the representative is probably also aware, the national transport plan provides for the establishment of urban growth agreements for the Kristiansand region, Buskerudbyen, Grenland, Lower Glomma and Tromsø. So there are five cities that are involved in urban growth agreements in addition to the four largest urban areas that have urban growth agreements today. Tromsø is one of the five that is well located, since there is already a city package in place, and toll collection according to the plan is to start until the autumn. I have an ambition to start negotiations with Tromsø on an urban capital speech, but, as you know, nothing is clear until everything is clear, and a set mandate is just one necessary prerequisite for such negotiations. The framework for this must also be adapted to the general government policy in this area. I will therefore come back to the exact time for the possible start of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1218	Much of what the council here says is known information. We know that Tromsø is one of five cities. What I want answers to are the concrete things. What the Council of State is now saying is that there was a draft in September, but it has been almost five months – quite a long time – from one of them, and still the Council of State can neither respond when the mandate is ready nor when the negotiations can begin. It's very nice with ambitions, but this is about how we're going to develop Tromsø, which is the largest city in North Norway, to make sure we get better infrastructure. I am also a little concerned when the rapporteur from the Labour Party said to the iTromsø four days ago: ‘We do not know if we are given the mandate, but the decision is similar around the corner.’ So I try again: can the Council of State be more specific about when the mandate prepared by the Solberg government five months ago is clear from this government? And when can these negotiations begin in concrete terms? Is it a week, two weeks, a month or a year – how long is it? One must be able to have a time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1230	Firstly, it is wrong that the Solberg government had prepared a mandate for this urban growth debate. There was a draft from the State Road Administration. It is the government that determines the mandate, and that is what is going on – we are working on it. So we will come back to concrete responses to start-up, mandate, etc. when we have landed the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1235	Once again, it is very difficult to get concrete answers from the government. I think that's very stupid. We have waited a very long time for an urban change speech in Tromsø, and still the Council of State cannot give any perspective on either mandate or when negotiations can be started. But then I also have another question. That's set by 10 billion. kr in the NTP for these five cities, and Sandra Borch and the Central Party, who are government partners with the Workers' Party, promised in the election campaign that they would grant 10 billion. kr to Tromsø alone – so take the whole frame, which is for the other cities as well. Sandra Borch was then interviewed about this in iTromsø last weekend. There she answered the question of whether it was relevant to increase the framework of the urban growth agreements that is now 10 billion. kr, that it should discuss one in the government. Then my question to the Council of State is: is there a discussion in the government about increasing the framework for urban growth agreements beyond the 10 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? And when does the government possibly have a final discussion about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1242	I think the representative knows very well that budgetary processes in the government are being told when we present a budget, and that is not very forthcoming. So there's no one concrete to report it. But it's important to stress from my side that in terms of these 10 billion. kr, is it so that – and now I take it a little bit on my mind, so don't arrest me completely on it – it's 4.5 billion. kr to be negotiated, for parts of these 10 billion. kr is already the rewarder of these cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1250	‘The Leader of the Transport and Communications Committee, Erling Sande, has made statements that signal the possibility of leaving the E6 motorway project in Trøndelag. Does the Council share the views of the Chairman of the Committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1257	Now it's going to be a little bit repetitive. Spring 2000–08 showed that there was a broad political consensus on continued commitment to transport infrastructure. Roads, railways, ports, ferries and airports bind all of Norway together and are crucial for settlement and job development throughout the country. The government’s – and mine – priority is to pursue a transport policy that ensures that people and goods arrive quickly and safely, where good infrastructure provides the basis for living local environments and profitable jobs. In the case of these individual sections that the representative Sande said he wanted to scale down or postpone on time, I get to repeat: it's on his account. I also want to acknowledge that what he wanted to achieve was a debate on how to implement transport projects. That's probably what was his main point, that's to raise a debate. The government, on its side, assumes that we will implement the National Transport Plan, and that includes E6 in Trøndelag, where New Roads will deploy E6 with a four-field motorway from Ulsberg in the south to Åsen in the north, 106 km in total. Development will help to improve road safety, reduce travel time and strengthen growth and development in the national part of the country, and the speed limit will be mainly 110 km. As I have also repeated in the previous answers, it is in the national transport plan that the projects mentioned in the communication should be worked on with a view to increasing the benefits and reducing costs. There is no absolute guarantee to be mentioned in the national transport plan to be implemented as a project independent, inter alia. cost development of the project. I think we all agree that we need to have control of the projects and the costs of being able to use the money of the state and the community in a good way. In examining the State budget for 2022, the Stortinget decided to make an assessment of the road portfolio in the National Transport Plan to contribute to effective implementation and to help us achieve our climate objectives. This review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field roads. I believe it is right that in this context we make an overall assessment of the portfolio, including the projects for which there was a majority in Stortinget by supporting in comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1272	I thank you for your answer and can see that the Council of States has ambitions in addition to that of the chairman of the Transport Committee. But I think the longer we get away from this house, the farther north we get, the greater the distance costs for business and the services performed. That's how getting new roads and good roads at higher speeds will be and taking down those costs. Does the Council share those views?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1277	Yes, in many ways it will be that when you reduce travel time, there are several positive things happening. The industry is getting shorter distances and so seen faster the delivery of goods and services. It could also contribute positively to regional enlargement and the development of the labour market. But it is also the case that expanding four-field roads has some other features in terms of environmental and economic costs. But these are the assessments we're going to make, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1282	But does the Council of State guarantee that he intends to follow up the plans for the motorway project in Trøndelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1287	There is no knowledge in me at the moment that these projects are planned to be reduced. But I repeat that the model of New Roads, which in many ways is a married child of the representative's party, is that projects should be thwarted by trying to reduce costs and increase benefits. This will mean that the projects can look a little different after you have worked with them in a planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1295	‘The growth of freight traffic in Norway is strong, but today the capacity of the sections of trains is about to explode. Last year rail freight traffic increased by 12 pst in Norway. The dovre course increased by a total of 19 pst. and is that route in Norway with the highest freight traffic. We need more and more crossing tracks and upgrading and improving the efficiency of the terminals to get more and more trains. What will the Council of State do to ensure a proper lift for goods on the road?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1302	The government will pursue an offensive railway policy, and we will facilitate rail to take a greater share of freight traffic. The government Støre strengthened the road-to-rail freight transfer scheme in our additional number to the state budget for 2022. Increased rail freight capacity offers several advantages: lower greenhouse gas emissions, better road accessibility and improved road safety. Also, particulate matter and microplastics are not a challenge on the railway. In addition, efficient, reliable, safe and environmentally friendly freight transport is a prerequisite for a competitive business. The companies involved in the carriage of goods by road have shown great ability to convert into the keel water of the pandemic, and the increase in road freight transport, as the representative mentioned, was 12 pst. in Norway from 2020 to 2021. Course NOR also expects further growth in the current year, at 3 pst. The Bane NOR prognosis is in line with the Government's ambitions for continued growth in rail freight traffic, and in order to achieve this, it is necessary to focus on measures that maximise their effectiveness. This is why the Ministry of Transport is now making provision for portfolio management and power packs on the four main rail freight sections. This means that Bane NOR prioritises the most effective measures within the power packs. The Dovre track is one of the four main sections of freight transport. This is where freight trains are to be equipped up to 650 metres. Investments in longer cross-sectional tracks include: a current measure. As part of the work on portfolio management, Bane NOR shall make proposals for impact targets, concrete actions and priorities between the different sections of the impact packages. In the national transport plan, these four power packages were proposed as a priority for start-up during the first six-year period, i.e. 2022–2027, an estimated cost of 5 billion. kr related to the four power packs and SEK 2,7 billion. kr to smaller investment measures in the field of goods on the road for the entire planning period. Then, of course, goods on the track will also benefit from annual renewal funds of 3.2 billion. NOK 2022, and of course it will also benefit greatly from other investments on the railways, for example. on-going double-track projects. It is important that the railway provides a high punctuality offer. Continuous maintenance and renewal are important to achieve this. The ongoing work on new signalling system, ERTMS, will be an important contribution to improving capacity utilisation and punctuality on the rail. Many good measures are being taken to increase the volume of goods on Norwegian railways, and fortunately this is a good development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1319	Despite positive growth rates for goods on the road, the Minister must agree with me that we need greater ambitions. Unfortunately, the goal Stortinget has set for goods on the track is becoming more and more distant. There is no attempt at anything that would suggest that we can reach 30 pst. the transfer of goods from road to sea at distances above 300 km by 2030. The reasons for the temporary environmental aid scheme when it was established were that many of the planned good measures to strengthen the sector were not in place. Many of the measures are still not in place. Does the Minister agree with me that, in order not to lose substantial competitiveness on the road, the environmental aid scheme must be continued and annual budgetary transfers increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1326	I agree that the environmental aid scheme is one of several instruments that takes us in the right direction. I think that maybe we can say that history has shown us so far. This has led to more freight lines than before, and this has led to a number of truck transports being saved and goods being transferred from road to rail. It's a positive development. The environmental support scheme needs to be developed within a framework related to how much money can be spent on the scheme, and I think the representative is aware of that. I would nevertheless like to insist that the most important thing to make the railway competitive is that we get to the capacity utilisation and expansion that infrastructure requires. Then there is a great deal of investment ahead of us, both in concrete steps to develop crossing tracks on several routes, so that we can run longer trains, and also through the investments to be made at intercity, etc., which will increase the capacity for driving trains in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1333	The previous government provided for motorways to be built before the railway in important corridors, at best they must be built simultaneously – a safe grip to remove the basis for the railway. We know that by moving goods to the railway we're replacing extremely many trailer trips, we know that it leads to cuts in CO 2 emissions, and we know that it leads to safer roads. We also know that there is an effective way to the markets through green competitiveness, and that it means several Norwegian jobs with good pay and working conditions versus the foreign truck companies have. The minister himself was also concerned with those advantages. Will the new government do something about the priorities on the transport side – and then I am behind smaller highways, safe everyday roads and more track?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1343	As the representative is very aware because this was an agreement with SV, the ministry has been given a mission to review how we are going to develop our roads in terms of normal and four-field roads, so there we will come back to Stortinget with an answer to the mission Stortinget has given. I think it is right to say that in parts of our country, the railway has an obvious competitive advantage and a priority and needs to be developed, while, of course, it is also true in a country like Norway that road transport will, in the foreseeable future, be a very important part of our transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1353	«The Transport Selection in More and Romesdal will address the question of trasé elections for the new E39 part of the Digernes to Ørskogberg on 27 October 2021. Here are many options, and the county is strongly critical of the process. Governments have determined in response to the signatures in several questions that the trasé choice had been taken for the project, and this is the basis for a cost estimate of approx. 24 B.C.E. kr. Now it turns out that the Council of State has misinformed. Can there be an explanation of the missing State Council knowledge of the project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1360	I have answered several questions about E39 Ålesund – Molde from the representative Sve in the past, both in writing and in the questionnaire, and I cannot see that I have misinformed the representative about the status of neither investigations nor the planning of the project. In response to the representative, Mr Sve, I have shown that the concept of E39 Ålesund-Molde has been adopted, not traverser. The state project model sets out requirements for investigations into large-scale State investment projects and, through a draft selection investigation and external quality assurance, KS1, a basis for government and the Storting decision is drawn up. After KVU and KS1, the government decides what kind of concept will be used for further project planning. It was the previous government that decided the concept for most of the E39 Ålesund–Bergsøya in 2014. It was a government in which the representative's party was well represented, even the Council of Transport States. Following an additional investigation, the previous government decided the concept for the E39 Digernes–Vik in 2019. Since the adoption of the concept, the Swedish Road Administration has planned the E39 Ålesund-Molde project according to the Planning and Building Act. The pathways and solutions that have been assessed in that work have been within the framework set out in the adopted concept. It is such that the state project model and the Planning and Building Act are intended to complement each other. The status of investigations and planning of E39 Ålesund-Molde is as follows: The concept has been decided for the whole route. On parts of the route, regulatory plans have been adopted, and there is a rag and concrete solution. On the remaining sections, work is under way on municipal sub-plans and regulatory plans in consultation with the relevant municipalities. In this work traverses and solutions will be clarified. Planning will take place within the cost framework established by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1371	I actually have a short question now, as the first question: The Council of State is certainly aware that the Swedish Road Administration has a lot of action books and manuals that they control after. The question is quite simply: does the Minister for Transport know what the Handbook R764 contains?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1376	No, I can't say on the standing foot that I have read that manual, and I don't know the conceptual device in it at all. It is well with respect to report too much that the Minister for Transport should have the detailed knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1381	The reason why I ask is that I have this manual here and also the basis of the five options for E39 that are going to pass Lake Holt. The basis for establishing anything — either P45, P50, P65 or P85 — is the actual estimation method in Handbook R764. I have been travelling for 20 years and have been working on a lot of big projects, and I have learned that the manuals are important to use as a basis for pricing. What I'm wondering is how to say that a project is going to cost $24.35. kr when the basis of this manual, R764, is not taken into account, using the estimation method. State councils can get these forms after the interview, because I think it might be necessary. The question is simply: is there any intention to follow the manuals used by the State Road Administration itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1388	I assume that the Swedish Road Administration is dealing with both its own manuals and its own legislation and is working on investigating the projects in the ways in which the State has framed this. I also have no reason to believe otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1396	‘In 2015, the current government set up with the Progress Party in the head company Nye Veier AS and added E39 between Kristiansand and Ålgård in the portfolio. Both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party were sceptical about the road company, and recently the chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee even called for the downsizing of several important transport projects, including the E39 in the South-West. Can the Council of State guarantee the construction of a continuous four-field motorway between Lgågal and Ålgård at a marked speed of 110 km/h as provided for by the Progress Party?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1403	As stated in previous speeches, the treatment of the national transport plan by spring showed a broad political consensus on continued commitment to transport infrastructure in our country. Roads, railways, ferries and airports are involved in linking Norway, and it is crucial for settlement and job development across the country. The government and my priority is to pursue a transport policy that ensures that people and goods emerge quickly and safely, and where good infrastructure provides the basis for living local environments and profitable jobs. Then I agree that the previous government, the right-wing government, did not give priority to the route and racial protection, and that is why we in the Hurdal platform have determined that an obliging plan for upgrading the county road is to be drawn up and a national implementation plan is drawn up for racial and racial protection of all highways and highways with a high and medium step factor. In the case of the individual sections which the representative Erling Sande has stated are to be scaled down or postponed on time, it is to be borne in mind. I see that the purpose of his play was more to get a debate going on how we use our means of transport, and we have to be able to bear that. However, the government, on its part, suggests that the national transport plan should be implemented. When it comes to E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, I would like to point out – as I pointed out in my answer to question 9 from the representative of Steffensen – that there is an important national transport corridor that forms part of the NTP. New road safety E39 will link important parts of southern Norway and provide efficient transport of goods and people between the West and the East. Today's E39, I think we can agree that there is a poor standard in terms of its function as a national highway and a European road, also in terms of accessibility and road safety. On 25 June 2021, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, now the Ministry of Local Government and Districts, adopted a municipal government plan for the E39 Lwagal West-Sandnes section. That decision envisages the construction of a four-field road throughout the route. As I have also said in the previous response here today, it is that when a project is in the national transport plan, it is not quite a guarantee that the project will be implemented. This will include, inter alia: depends on the cost development of the project. I think we agree that we have to work all the time to reduce costs and increase the benefits of the projects in order to keep Community funds in the best possible way. After all, the Storting decided, in the context of the budgetary review, to carry out a review of the NTP portfolio in order to look at how we can contribute to the effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. Then we will also look at road standards and traffic volume thresholds for the construction of four-field roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1420	I thank you for your answer. It is no wonder that there has been a lot of debate about this in Stortinget when such a fire flare was released from the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, representing a government party. Today's E39 is bad, it's road-hazardous and has bad performance. News about accidents, queues, chaos and closed roads comes so often that it can't really be considered news anymore. Why does the Council of State not want to use the word ‘guarantee’ to build this road, which has been adopted in the Grand Duchy? Is it because the Council of State keeps the door open so that the SV, with whom the government cooperates, will get through and scrape this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1425	There was more of a general consideration about the status of projects mentioned in the NTP, but I can also say a little bit more about this project. It is Nye Veier who is responsible for planning, building and operating the E39 from Kristiansand to Ålgård, and the company is in the process of building the new E39 from Kristiansand to Lvgal. The first section between Mandal East and Mandal City was opened in December 2021. Now New Veier wants to get started in Rogaland. The regulatory plan for E39 Bue-Ålgård is expected to be adopted in March or April of this year and there are local policy decisions to finance a new four-way. Traffic calculations show that the traffic volume in the dimensioning year is well above the entry point of ÅDT 12000, which is the entry point for the four-field road in the normal state of the road. On the rest of the section Lwigal-Bue, the level work is in the start-up phase, and it is based on the agreed municipal sub-plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1432	I am pleased that the Council of State saw until the degrees shoot down the playback of its colleague from the Central Party, that the need for E39 does not exist. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a follow-up question. The councils are in the timeline for what's going on, but when the council expects the whole stretch between Kristiansand and Sandnes, that's a new four-field E39 with the 110 km/h sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1437	I don't think I'm willing to go into any exact guessing of the year and dates for the progress of the projects. I note that the projects are within the national transport plan, I note that construction and planning are in progress, and that is a good hope of getting good progress on the whole of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1442	After nine rounds of questions, the Minister of Transport may take a well-deserved break, for the next question is asked from Guri Melby to the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1450	‘In a decision by the head of the women’s clinic at Oslo University Hospital and head of the New Aker programme, it appears that the ABC unit at Ullevål Hospital is not maintained in New Aker Hospital. This is not in line with the order for the project Aker. The ABC unit is a unique and popular offering for natives, where midwives report high well-being. With such a weakening of maternity care, what will the Council of State say to those about 1000 women who every year apply to the ABC in the hope of being born in an environment that gives them the security they need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1457	We must constantly work to ensure that the birthers get the best and safe experience of the provision of birth and maternity as possible. It is the health companies that are responsible for good and proper maternity care, and I will therefore not comment on organisational conditions within Oslo University Hospital, OYS. The ABC unit represented 5.3 pst. of the births at the OUS in 2021, according to Health South-East RHF. There are healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies who can give birth at the ABC if they want. The woman must be moved to one of the other births on Ullevål if complications occur during birth, or more pain relief is needed than provided by the ABC unit. In the New Oslo University Hospital, the New Aker and the New Rikshospitale are planned. One goal in planning the food supply in new hospital buildings is that all birthers should receive an organized offer based on their own wishes and needs. It involves the provision of midwifery services and the possibility of physiological birth with minimal intervention. The course of birth shall be supported by the necessary and correct measures, guided by the patient and the medical need, throughout the course. Health professionals need to move to the birthing person to a greater extent. It'll give you better continuity in the process. The New OUS Food Department will continue to offer a midwife birth offer to those who want it. There will be feeding rooms and multi-functional rooms for natural births on New Aker. Food establishments will be equipped to implement the necessary measures if epidural anaesthetic or other measures are necessary. In the planned multi-functional rooms, women will be able to spend time before the active birth and delivery time in the hospital together with their partner, which many also value in the ABC offer. All the women who are pregnant will get exclusive in the New OUS. I started by saying that we are constantly working to make birth care even safer and better. Today's ABC offer at Oslo University Hospital is aimed at a small proportion of the birthers. With new hospitals and improved facilities, the aim is for all births to have access to a birth adapted to their individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1472	I believe that everyone shares the objective that all birthers must be offered, and these multifunction spaces to which the Council of State refers can certainly meet the needs of a great many. What I feel is that the Council of State may not entirely take inwards, the unique competence is a unit that the ABC unit has. In a chronicle in the Evening Post yesterday, there were five superiors from the Ullevål maternity ward who pointed out that research shows that in a regular maternity ward, more medical measures often end up being used than on a physically separated low-risk unit. It is also pointed out that the midwives who work at ABC are specialised in facilitating natural births, while in ordinary food departments they have the competence for more complicated births. These consultations conclude that, in order to achieve the best results in maternity care, there is a need for separate units and midwives with different special competencies. How does the Council of State believe that the special competence of natural births should be maintained when the ABC offer is dropped?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1481	We have professional guidelines for the provision of food, and then it's local professional judgement that, at the moment a woman comes into active birth, determines what is right to advise the woman on the best course possible and a good experience for the native. Having flexibility in the supply of food is the best way to meet the individual needs of all birthing women. The experience with this device, the ABC clinic, is also going on. It is the professional assessments that also facilitates and facilitates the future food supply in the New OUS. It is a premise and an expectation from all of us that that competence is involved in creating flexible solutions to care for all birthing women, which is the responsibility of every maternity ward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1488	Governments are talking about flexibility. Today we have flexibility, today women in the Oslo area actually have freedom of choice. They can choose the ABC unit and the type of follow-up they get there. I can't help seeing anything but that in the future, all Oslo's birthing women will go into standardised feeding clinics, and healthy women are then encouraged to go home 24 hours after birth. These are decisions that go beyond research, user needs and clinical experience, which demonstrate the importance of a differentiated supply of food for the care of the mental and physical health of women at birth. Counsellor at today's maternity ward at Ullevål says that it is not possible to justify these cuts from a professional point of view, which I find the Council of State is trying to do, but that it is a deliberate depriorization of women and newborns in the new morbidity plans. How does the Council of State feel that the requirement of differentiated and adapted maternity care is met when women are actually deprived of their current freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1497	It's not right, as the representative Melby says, that women should be pushed into a standardised food supply. This is contrary to the technical guidelines, so I think it is important to be included in the Minutes. That's just not right. It is planned for a future food supply in the New OUS, which provides flexibility to ensure greater freedom of choice for the individual woman during the course of her birth, through multi-functional rooms, feeding rooms and also the provision of a midwife’s food supply. I am simply not familiar with the description given, and this has been assured by Stortinget through the treatment of St.meld. 12 for 2008-2009, A Happy Event. Now this government is going to deliver a new big message for the birth and maternity services, but the professional guidelines are in place, and in the plans for the New OUS there must be flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1507	‘The ABC unit on Ullevål is a long-term supply for natural birth and overall maternity, maternity and maternity care. The new plans for the OUS no longer include the ABC unit. In the last few weeks, there have been major protests against this closure because women who give birth have different needs, and ABC has been able to provide security and follow-up as many demand. Does the Council agree that the ABC unit on Ullevål is a good offer that must be maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1514	This answer will unfortunately be a repetition of my answer to question 17 from the representative Melby. Health companies are responsible for proper and sound birth care. The ABC unit represented 5.3 pst. of the births of Oslo University Hospital, OUS in 2021, according to Health South-East RHF. There are healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies who can give birth at this unit, if they want it. The woman must be moved to one of the other births on Ullevål if complications occur during birth or if there is a need for more pain relief than the ABC unit provides. The New Oslo University Hospital is planning to host part-sessions both at Nye Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. One goal in planning the supply of food in new hospitals is that all birthers should receive an organized offer based on their own wishes and needs. The course of birth shall be supported by the necessary measures throughout the course and be guided by the patient and the medical need. Health professionals need to move to the birthing person to a greater extent. It'll give you better continuity in the process. The New OUS Food Department will continue to offer a midwife birth offer to those who want it. There will be feeding rooms and multi-functional rooms for natural births on New Aker. The living rooms will be equipped to implement the necessary measures if, for example: would be necessary for epidural anaesthetic or other measures. In the planned multi-purpose rooms, women will also be able to spend time before active birth and maternity in the hospital together with their partner. All the women who are pregnant will get exclusive in the New OUS. Today's ABC offer at the OUS is targeted at 5 pst. of the birthing. With new hospital buildings and improved facilities, everyone will have access to a birth adapted to their needs. It is Oslo University Hospital that is responsible for the ABC unit and has to assess the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1527	You have to give the same answers because you get the same questions, because this is a matter that is important to very many people. Many women, both in Oslo and really throughout the country, have stood up in opposition to what is thought to be a poor maternity care – many of them are also represented in the gallery here today. Several games are also going to bring this up with you several times today. That is why I think the answers are a little too bad. It's not an excuse that there are healthy women, nor is it an excuse that there are 5 pst. by the pregnant women. I know very well what happens if you need help on an ABC hospital, since I have been born there myself. The fact that women want this offer, that midwives apply to work there, because there they get to work with their profession and in a way they think you should work with your profession, should in itself be proof that this is an offer that is needed. It still has not been responded to by the Council of State – if at all she believes that the ABC unit on Ullevål is a good offer that needs to be preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1534	For the sake of order, the President would remind us that the speech should be addressed to the President and not be in you or you form to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1540	I'll discuss at any time, and I'd like to talk to everyone who sits in the gallery, and everyone who's busy with a good birth and maternity offer in Norway, because that's what we're going to have. All women in Norway are entitled to a good birth and maternity offer. At the ABC clinic, it's 5 pst. of the birthing women in a local morbidity area who are able to feed safely there and who choose it. In my reply to both this representative and the previous one, I have said that there should still be a midwife-ridden birth offer for those who want it at the New OUS. There will be feeding rooms and multi-purpose rooms for natural births at New Aker Hospital. The living rooms will be equipped to implement the necessary measures if, for example: be necessary for measures other than those offered by the ABC clinic today. I believe that this is a good and flexible future for pregnant women in Oslo. So it's the OYS that has to answer for what assessments you're making in the short term. The future food supply for women in Oslo has been implemented through new hospital buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1546	There are midwifery units in all the major cities of Norway, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. What's important is that these are units that are separated from normal maternity wards and that have their own staff, which are essential to being able to feel the overall care through both the course of pregnancy, the whole of birth and the time of maternity. In Stavanger and Bergen, the new hospital is built and the midwifery units are planned to continue. Then I wonder why this is a solution that is good for Stavanger and Bergen, and what is the reason why such a unit should not continue in Norway's largest city. Although it's 5 pst. There's a lot of women there. For me, the health minister's safeguards are not good enough when I hear at the same time from both midwives, superiors and not least birthing women themselves that you want to keep this offer as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1550	I think it is commendable that you have a commitment to a limited supply of food, with which you obviously have personal experience, and which you experience is good in the capital. But it is the local hospital that is responsible for its area of exposure, which must give priority to how to use the resources. And if you think in Bergen and Stavanger that it's right, with the access they have on midwives, to maintain their own units for it, it's a responsibility they take locally, and that they also have locally, according to both the letter of the law and the professional safety criteria. When you evaluate it differently at OYS, OYS has to answer for it. As a government council, you have to make sure that everyone has a good supply of food through a good framework. Locally, you have to give priority to the resources you have, given that everyone has to have a decent supply of food. Then it's OYS, who sees this change as necessary, who has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1558	‘The guidelines on maternity care state: ‘The duration of hospitalisation is adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn. The evaluation is carried out in consultation with the woman.’ However, the hospitals operate at bedtime after an uncomplicated birth up to six to eight hours and plan the beds in new hospital buildings after that. How does the Council of State think the guidelines can be maintained if the capacity is reduced so that the beds do not exist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1565	The time of hospital discharge after birth shall be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child and shall be decided in consultation with the woman, in line with the director of the Health Directorate, to which the representative refers. These are also factors that need to be taken into account when planning new hospitals, and this can be seen in the mission documents of regional health companies. The representative, Kristjánsson, points out that in new large hospital buildings, they are planning to leave already after six to eight hours. Feedback from health regions shows that the guidelines on maternity care have been implemented in all health businesses. It also concerns the recommendation to adapt printing to the needs of the woman and the newborn. The guidelines are used when healthcare businesses are to dimension new hospitals according to their professional needs. In the case of some health care establishments, it is foreseen that birthers should be able to return early. The assessment of women for whom this is relevant is individual — and must be individual — in line with the national guidelines on maternity care. Early repatriation also requires that there is a municipal offer from the health centre of the midwife/health sister in the municipality where the woman lives. It's the responsibility of the municipalities. No one should go home until the family is able to take care of the child at home. These are matters that are emphasised when new hospitals are planned, and it is my expectation as the responsible state council to those who have local responsibility for a professionally sound service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1576	I allow myself to become a little concrete, and of course also a little personal. Last summer I had a daughter. It was my roommate who stood for birth, I didn't do much to contribute to it. My daughter was born at Stavanger University Hospital. Now a new hospital is being built in Stavanger, with fewer beds in the maternity ward than the old hospital has. Despite the fact that the Rogalands region is a growing region, the size of the food supply is lower than that previously held. Similar examples have also been seen from elsewhere in the country. Staff at Stavanger University Hospital, midwives and nurses say that they feel a pressure to reduce bedtime and that Stavanger needs to be as good as in Bergen, where on average they get women out faster. My question to the Council of State is how she can defend that my daughter, when one day she is going to have a baby in Stavanger, will have a worse supply than it was when she was born last summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1585	It is a tempting thought that I will still be Minister of Health then, but I think that both I and the representative of Kristjánsson consider this to be unlikely. But the responsibility of politics must have an eternity perspective. The responsibility of the hospital in Stavanger lies in the fact that it must be sound and one individual assessment for the individual woman and the newborn, and that it must also be a proper service in the home municipality of the birthing woman. As State Council, I assume that they will follow up locally in Stavanger. Then there's a development that's like this: Some birthing women, when they're done with birth, want to go home earlier. There is something that must be voluntary and proper, and the responsibility for the hospital is to have capacity for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1592	The Council of State assumes that no one should be pressured to go home prematurely and that there should be room for everyone in the hospitals. But the stories that I and others hear from around the country are from women who experience that they have been sent home before they wish, from midwives and nurses who feel that they don't have enough beds, don't have enough hands at work and don't have a large enough sized maternity ward. I don't think anyone wants to stay in a hospital any longer than necessary, so it's very happy when women can go home quickly after birth, but for very many are not that reality. The question is whether the Council of State will take action to address the problems reported by women and workers in hospitals or whether the Council of State will only continue to assume that health businesses are doing everything they want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1597	Governments govern health businesses by letter of assignment and company records, and this is one of the things that we really care about. This government will present a new growth report for the provision of birth and maternity care. The previous one was presented in 2009 and the birthing women in Norway in 2022 have changed, both in age and in the number of children they have. So it's time for a new big message. But the professional guidelines, derived from that big news, are actually good today, and they're going to apply to all birthing women. Now I'm done with the productive age, but in my health business area, Health Nord-Trøndelag, you don't feel pressure to go home too early. So there's someone that gets to this. We have a pressure and a younger population in the big cities, and there's the challenge of dimensionalizing correctly, without anyone, as a result of the number of beds, experiencing a pressure to go home prematurely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1610	‘In healthnorge.no, we can read: ‘You who have had a child should have a home visit by a midwife during the first three days after repatriation.’ The 2020 figure shows that only 40 pst. receive home visits from midwife after birth. These figures have been stable over several years. Has the government planned measures to ensure that all women who have given birth receive home visits from midwives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1617	The government's goal is that everyone should experience good and safe maternity care, no matter where they live in the country. Home visits to newborns after birth are important both for the child and for the family. The purpose of the home visit is to provide parents with individual and necessary information, support and guidance on the basis of needs and to provide the basis for further follow-up of the child and cooperation with the family. In the National Professional Guideline on Health Station and School Health, it is highly professional to recommend that the provision of healthcare is to include home visits to newborns. I want all newly-baked parents to have the opportunity of a home visit, if they want to. We have announced in the Hurdals platform that we will strengthen health and school health services through an escalation plan. Pregnancy and maternity care are an important part of this service, and we will look at how we can make the offer as best we can. In 2022, it was granted approximately 1.3 billion. kr to health care centre and school health service. We are concerned that as many people as possible will be offered home visits by midwives. So the government has earmarked 60 million. kr of the subsidy for strengthening the health care of midwives. In addition, 15 million is set aside. kr to a national health station and school health competence environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1634	I thank you for your answer. The guidelines for maternity care state: ‘Residence requires an organised maternity offer at the place of residence and support from the woman’s network/partner.’ Still, we see that the numbers show that only 40 pst. receive home visits from midwife after birth, and it is not an understatement to say that it is too bad. My question to the Council of State is therefore: are health companies in dialogue with municipalities to make sure that an organised maternity offer at the place of residence is in place in the region when planning for very short maternity time at the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1641	Every maternity ward should do that. It must be close to contact with the local health service. Birth and maternity care is a chain. You start with pregnancy follow-up at either midwife or permanent through pregnancy. It's to make sure that what food is right for the nurturing woman. For maternity, it is probably so much about what kind of offer is in place in the municipality, considering how early it is that the woman travels home with the newborn baby. We have a challenge, and it's evolved over the years: we have a landslide. This government has set up a Health Personnel Commission to look at how we train, recruit and keep professionals, and it will also look at this with shared positions between health companies and the community health service. The provision of maternity care is an example of such a chain of services that must be linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1648	Now home visits by midwives are only a recommendation in the guidelines, but the Barrel uprising action group believes this should be a patient's right. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State agree that home visits by midwives should be a patient's right, when we see that the offer fails for so many?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1653	It has not been assessed by the government and the Council of State. We are going to present a new growth report for the provision of birth and maternity care. It is natural that we then assess the type of new rights attaching, if applicable. What is a challenge in any case is our access to midwives, how the midwives work, how many midwives we have in the maternity wards, and how many of them work in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1661	‘For several years midwives throughout the country have been notified that the manning has been so severe that they feel that the services they provide are not sound. In my home town of Bergen we now see a doubling of complaints about pregnancy and childbirth. Is the Council of State concerned about this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1668	We need safe maternity care, both in hospitals and in municipalities, throughout the country. It's important to establish. At the same time, we know that in many places it is challenging to ensure adequate access to midwives and other health professionals at the food departments we have and in the municipalities. Health care providers are responsible for ensuring good and professional maternity care and are constantly working to ensure adequate qualified personnel who can take responsibility for the birthing. There is a great need for midwives in health care, both in hospitals and in municipalities. The country’s maternity wards are required to maintain day-to-day operations, and the working and operational situation can be very challenging over a period of time. In the Hurdal platform, we have announced that we will launch several initiatives to ensure good and safe maternity care throughout the country. Among other things, we need to: start work on the overall provision of birth and maternity. This work will include, inter alia: include staffing, accompanying services, full-time positions and funding model for food departments. Furthermore, we strengthen educational capacity, inter alia: for specialised nurses, then midwives, and we are committed to identifying measures that can help train, recruit and maintain qualified health and care staff throughout the country, both in the short and long term. I look seriously at a situation with an increasing number of complaints about pregnancy and childbirth and an experienced tight manning situation. It underlines the need for a comprehensive effort in the area of birth and maternity – a multi-sectoral work being undertaken by the government, which is also the background to the commitments made by the Hurdal Platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1679	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to remind you that this is not a new situation. Already in 2016, employees at the women's clinic in Bergen were out warning against low crewing on weekends, and in 2019, before the pandemic broke out, they called for poor staffing. I will not take full responsibility for this, but it was the Workers' Party that introduced the Health Business Model in its time. My follow-up question to the Minister of Health is what she thinks about her responsibility when health businesses are unable to address the situation and ensure a birth and maternity offer that the professional community can stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1684	I think it is the voice of the representative not to give me all the responsibility, since I have been the Council of State for four months. But we have launched a series of initiatives to ensure safe maternity care across the country. I share the concerns described by the representative, and have also worked from Stortinget's pulpit to speed up a work and a development where we have seen that, among other things. the midwife deficiency has increased. We have started work on a comprehensive birth and maternity offer, and there we see among other things. on staffing, accompanying services, full-time positions and funding model, and that is probably the last thing that might be the answer to the representative’s criticism of the health business model. We need to look at how we finance emergency services in hospitals. There is an emergency services and the provision of birth and maternity services that must be there all the time, and that is why we are particularly looking at how it is financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1689	I thank you for that answer too. In addition to the measures the government is about to take to recruit more midwives, I am also interested to hear what the government intends to do to keep the midwives we have after all. Because regardless of how to recruit midwives in the future, it is a fact that a number of midwives have disappeared from the food departments around the country because working conditions are too poor today. That is why I want an even clearer response from the Minister of Health on what this government is going to do to keep the midwives in a stressed work situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1694	There are several things that need to be done to ensure that our skilled professionals do not leave the service. One is an increase in basic funding. There we strengthened the hospitals in the supplementary letter submitted by the government of Støre to the Solberg government's draft budget. It provides a stronger base funding and an opportunity for these midwives to be relieved by several colleagues. But we also have to train more midwives, and here's a dilemma that I want to invite the representative to reflect a little bit on. When we're going to have more education positions for midwives, it's the experienced colleagues who are already at work, who also have to do that job. So we have to over a hump now to get the number of midwives up. Unfortunately, we don't have a reserve bench we can just call in to do that job, so we're facing demanding challenges, but we're going to be able to solve them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1701	The next question is from the representative Seher Aydar to Minister of Health and Care Ingvild Kjerkol, and the question is addressed by the Bears of Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1709	‘The food department in Kristiansund was to be reopened on 1 December 2021, but it is still closed. It created hope when 25 million were allocated to recruitment measures in the State budget – that would make it easier to recruit. The Health Mid-Norway mission document – which is the governance tool of the Council of State – does not specifically mention reopening of the food department. When will the maternity ward be reopened, and what concrete steps does the Council of State take to ensure a rapid reopening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1716	Over time, there have been challenges in ensuring adequate manpower in the supply of food in Northern Ireland and in the valley of Rome. The food supply in Kristiansund has been temporarily closed since February last year, and births in the area are gathered at the hospital in Molde. Health Møre and Romsdal HF are working to reopen the offer in Kristiansund, as provided for in several decision-making decisions, and as we have communicated to Health Mid-Norway through business meetings. The management of specialist health services takes place through business meetings and annual mission documents. At the corporate meeting on 10 January, the situation in North Moravia and Romesdal was re-examined. I referred to the Hurdal platform, where the government has said that we will ensure the reopening of the food department in Kristiansund as soon as it can be done properly. The government has prioritised 25 million. kr for recruitment and competence measures in the North Sea and in the Valley of Rome. It is important for me to say that a considerable amount of work has been done to reopen a professionally sound supply of food in Kristiansund. The health company has worked actively to recruit staff, has invested in the further training of midwives and has carried out a recruitment campaign. In January this year, a midwifery ward was opened in Kristiansund, as a first step towards reopening the food supply. At the same time, we must recognise that recruitment of relevant professionals is a particular challenge. It must be resolved in a way that ensures both the proper provision of services and the stability of the offer. Furthermore, the health business lacks enough specialised professionals to be able to set a date for the reopening of the food department in Kristiansund. The ongoing work is usually followed up through the management dialogue I have with Health Mid-Norway. It is in everyone's interest that the offer can be reopened as intended. At the same time, both the recruitment situation and the operational situation are quite challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1731	I want to follow up on recruitment. They're almost on target, but they're missing one gynecologist. We have heard from the Bunadsgerilja that there have been weaknesses in the recruitment work. For example, a decisive gynecologist position was announced in 2022 as a vicariate even if the need is manifestly firm. This changed after that reference. We're wondering what the Council of States is doing to make sure that Health More and Romesdal are doing their utmost to get the mission done by the Stortinget, which is also produced by the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1738	Governments have a governance dialogue with Health Mid-Norway about this. It is one of the challenges in the specialist health service that is also specifically mentioned in the government platform, where they have also received a package of recruitment and competence through the letter of assignment with a financial allocation for the purpose. So it's quite natural that the Council of States follows this closely, and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1743	The situation is that both the Storting and the government have determined that a maternity ward should be opened here, and there are also funds, 25 million. kr, to ensure that it does. So it doesn't happen yet. The government is working to look at changes in health businesses, precisely to ensure that we get more political and democratic health management. What tools does the Council of State think it has at its disposal at the present time, when political decisions are not followed up within the time it has been adopted and envisaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1750	I wish I had far more comprehensive tools just to get access to health professionals, because the prerequisite for having a proper supply of food both in Kristiansund and in all other food departments in the country is enough professionals. The professionals are the whole service. Without competent professionals, we will not be able to meet the requirement for a professionally sound food supply. What is the task of a Council of States is to provide a framework to be able to do just that, but the responsibility for having a professionally sound offer is local, and it must be local. We lack midwives, we lack gynecologists as well, and the availability of that kind of competence – including anesthesia at Caesar's intersection and anesthetic – must be in place. That's what we're working on along multiple tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1760	‘Since 2010, women living in municipalities with more than 90 minutes of travel from the hospital have been entitled to accompanying services on their way to birth. A review by VG in 2019 revealed that very many municipalities did not have this. In my county, Nordland lacked 16 municipalities this service. What will the government do to ensure a safe birth also for women living far from the hospital?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1767	The accompanying service is important for the safety of long-distance pregnant women. Regional health businesses are responsible for the accompanying service for pregnant women. The Health Directorate's maternity counsellor assumes that there is a need for follow-up service where it is half an hour's journey to the place of birth, i.e. 90 minutes. In some places there has been a lack of follow-up service, as the representative points out. That's not good enough. It engaged me in opposition, in this room, and we then got the pressure from the previous government to take hold. Health regions were therefore assigned to monitor the follow-up service. The survey showed that health care businesses have mainly been provided with follow-up services. It was followed up with a new assignment, with a clear message to get it in place anywhere. We're going to have a safe birth and maternity care throughout the country. Some employers find it challenging to recruit sufficient professionals, both to municipalities and to hospital delivery departments. A good follow-up service assumes that we have a sufficient number of midwives. In view of, inter alia: This puts in place several initiatives by the government to ensure the proper follow-up of pregnant women and the safe provision of maternity care throughout the country. For 2022 it is granted 64 million. SEK 200 new training positions for specialised nurses in hospitals, including for midwife training. The admission capacity of nurse training shall be increased to 500 places of study from the autumn of 2022. Training institutions shall, as far as possible, inter alia: priority training for midwives. Overall, this will provide a good basis for increasing access to key specialised nurse groups, including midwives. To strengthen the midwife's competence in the municipalities is 60 million. kr of the grant to health care centre and school health services earmarked for midwives. The follow-up service is important for the safety of pregnant women. We must constantly work to ensure that birth-seekers get the best and safe experience of the delivery and delivery as possible. In the Hurdal platform, we have announced that we are embarking on a work on the overall provision of birth and maternity. It will include staffing, full-time positions and new funding model – and, of course, accompanying services as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1780	Women in the north don't have any slower uterus than other women, or they can hold back, but when you look at the total offer in the north, you'd think it was like that. We have a practice with summer-related food departments in Narvik, in Harstad, in Brønnøysund and several other places, and those who attend these places already have a long way to go. What will the government do to make it as safe to give birth all year long, even in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1787	It should be equally safe to give birth all year round, but professionals must also be given the opportunity to leave, and in order to do so without failure to offer, we must have more professionals. The midwives must have more colleagues, the gynecologists must have more colleagues, the anaesthetics and the anaesthetics must have more colleagues. I think it is commendable of the representative to engage in his own home country, for Northernland is the country where women have the longest way to maternity wards. On the outside of Helgeland, it's a long way to maternity wards. There must then be a good follow-up service, and there are also solutions such as women coming to the hospital earlier, in order to avoid critical situations. In East Finland, which is number two in the statistics, they also have a long journey. So the country is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1794	It is commendable to hear that you want to recruit more professionals and strengthen your education, and we will follow that in Red. But that doesn't help, because it also has to do with the number of institutions we have, and the number of food institutions in this country is reduced from about 160 to today's 45 in a few decades. So then the question is, can the Council guarantee that no more maternity wards will be closed on her watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1799	This government has no plans to shut down or shut down any maternity wards. We have some areas in Norway where structural processes are in progress for the future hospital service. It's in Helgeland, as I mentioned, it's in the Inland, and it's here in Oslo. We have no plans to make changes in structure, but what's important is how many professionals we have access to. It is the professionals who decide how safe and safe a food supply is. One must have competent people at work when the birthing woman is going through birth and experiencing a family increase. So we focus on both how these services are funded and how we ensure enough professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1807	‘In Norway, there is a marked increase in depression associated with pregnancy and childbirth. Several researchers point to a reduction in the supply of food and a reduction in maternity time as a cause. Is the Council of State concerned about developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1814	The pandemic has been tough for many emerging and newly-baked parents. A recent study shows that many mothers experienced that the pandemic affected their mental health to a large or very large extent. There may be several reasons for this, but in any case progress is cause for concern. More than half of those with mental health disorders say they did not receive sufficient follow-up and assistance after birth. Less accessible services, social isolation and concerns about partner involvement in important milestones may have contributed to that kind of experience. Shorter lying times have also been identified as a possible cause of birth depression. I would like to stress that the duration of hospitalisation for women and their newborn children should be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child and decided in consultation with the woman. Early discharge requires a good municipal offer from the health centre of the midwife or nurse. Good follow-up before, during and after birth is important to prevent pregnancy and maternity depression. The government will take more steps to ensure a safe and good birth and maternity care throughout the country. That is why we have announced that we are going to start work on the whole diet and the provision of maternity. It shall include, inter alia: include manning, follow-up, full-time positions and new funding model. We have also announced that we will cooperate with the municipalities on a concrete escalation plan to strengthen health centres and school health services. The new escalation plan we are implementing for mental health should cover both municipal services and the quality and capacity of specialist health services. We have now removed most of the measures against the pandemic. I believe and hope that it will mean a little less concern related to pregnancy, birth and maternity for those who are waiting for children. However, we need to pay great attention to this issue, so that we can prevent better, catch up more and help those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1829	The council and the undersigned have probably read the same study, and that's good, because then we'll talk about the same thing. What's not good is what gets fixed in the study. A number of midwives have also warned that the coronary restraints put them, births and accompanying persons in an unsustainable situation — that is the concept that was used. I think we've all also heard heartbreaking personal stories about fathers who have begged to come in, and mothers who have been afraid to enter the door alone. That the pandemic has done something about the birthing situation and the future, there is no doubt about it. The council was in on it, but I still want to ask if the council has any thoughts about doing something different to ensure the maternity care if the pandemic should flare up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1838	We've learned a lot over these two years. Now I've been a Health Minister for four months, but one of the things that's put in place on my watch is the assurance that the partner is going to be part of the birth, whether it's infected or not. There's a job all over the country's maternity wards have done, so hopefully there's a concern out of the world. We are conscious of the public health challenges that birth and maternity women reflect through this specific study. There have been more anxiety, more symptoms of depression, and therefore we look at a number of broad public health measures, while at the same time we have started work on the overall provision of birth and maternity, which involves several elements. Here we have to do several things at once. We also have an escalation plan for mental health, which will be one of several things.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1845	I thank you for your answer. In line with the state council, I've been a big-time representative for just four months. Before that, I've been working in kindergarten for a long time. From that field, I know that between them, birth depression is revealed in the first conversation with the one-year-old parents, usually at Mom's, but sometimes at Dad's. In many cases — even before the pandemic — the perpetrators themselves have not been aware that they have been in that situation and some have aha experiences in the course of the conversation. In other words, there are great numbers of darkness, little knowledge and quite low awareness of the theme. I also believe it is quite taboo. What does the Council of State have to do to expose more birth depressions, and to help those who have them?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1854	We'll probably have to do more things. One thing is how we work more to be able to maintain one's own mental health and learn to live with signals that it is not good, and then seek help. Broad public health responses to mental health challenges are important. Help must also be provided with the competence to help when the challenges become so great that they limit their lives to individuals. Here, as I said, the government works for several tracks. We're going to have a new public health report that we're going to present to Stortinget next spring. Mental health will also be important. We are working on developing skills both at the health centre and in the provision of birth and maternity care, and we are working on the whole chain of maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1864	‘In the construction of new maternity wards, Health South-East is planning to lay down the midwifery unit also known as the ABC department. Furthermore, the health-care provider plans to reduce the capacity of the maternity ward because the plans provide for new mothers to return within the first 24 hours. Will the Council of State permit Health South-East to worsen the provision of birth and maternity in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1871	There will be a repetition of my previous answers to questions about the ABC unit at Oslo University Hospital. Health companies are responsible for proper and sound birth care. I do not want to comment on organisational issues within the OYS from this pulpit. It is clear from my previous answers that Oslo University Hospital is still planning to give midwives a midwife-driven birth offer and the possibility of a physiological birth with the least intervention possible. Every woman will have a custom offer. New OUS foresees delivery sections at New Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. One goal in planning the food supply in new hospital buildings is that all birthers should receive an organized offer based on their own wishes and needs. The course of birth shall be supported by the measures necessary throughout the course and be guided by the patient and the medical need. Health professionals need to move to the birthing person to a greater extent. It'll give you better continuity in the process. There will be feeding rooms and multi-functional rooms for natural births on New Aker. Food establishments will be equipped to implement the necessary measures if epidural anaesthetic or other measures are necessary. In the planned multi-functional rooms, women will also be able to spend the time before the active birth and delivery time in the hospital together with their partner, which is a great many valuers of the ABC offer. All the women who are pregnant will get exclusive in the New OUS. In the case of post-natal hospital discharge, it shall be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child. It shall be decided in consultation with the woman, in line with the Director-General for Health. Therefore, the assessment of the women for whom this is relevant will be individual and requires the construction of a municipal offer from a health centre at the midwife and health sister in the municipality where the woman lives. It shall be safe to give birth. With new hospital buildings and improved facilities, everyone will have access to a birth adapted to their needs. It is Oslo University Hospital, which is responsible for the ABC unit, which assesses the offer and is responsible for professional soundness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1884	Experience from the hospital at Kalnes has shown that the goal of differentiated offers was not followed up when they merged the midwifery unit with the medical department. In its previous replies, the Council of State has continued to repeat the need for professionals. The closure of the midwifery department in Kalnes may have led to the midwifery crisis that the hospital is experiencing now. Why will the Council of State not oblige the health business to listen to birthing women in the Oslo region and to the professionals who are constantly saying so? Why make the provision of birth and maternity care worse in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1889	We're listening to the professionals. If there is one thing in particular the Federation of midwives has been particularly clear, it is that the educational capacity has to rise. They have also been similarly clear that we need to look at the financing of the food supply. They have also shown that there is a need to look more comprehensively and coherently at the provision of birth and maternity services. It is a service provided in a chain — first in the municipality, during pregnancy, looking at a food supply at the specialist health service, and then being followed up by a health centre, a midwife, or the caretaker if necessary. We've taken all of this very seriously. There are clear formulations in the Hurdal platform, and we have a number of initiatives to improve the provision of birth and maternity in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1894	The plans for Ullevål Hospital have not only worried birthing women today, tomorrow's birthing women and midwives, they also worry the Municipality of Oslo, who wrote in their response to the OYS's plans: ‘Oslo Municipality is concerned about the strong focus on early release for natives in national leaders. This may, in particular, challenge individual needs and in the light of this equivalent offer. This concern is shared by many professionals’ — and signed. We are familiar with what is on the Hurdal platform, but the plans Health South-East now provide for New Aker hospitals, I am also concerned that the future capacity increase or improvement of the offer will not be possible with the spatial planning of the New Aker hospitals now, when planning for an even smaller maternity ward than the other hospital has. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1904	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1909	I don't know if I understood a question from the representative, but in the case of hospital discharge after birth, this should be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child, and it should be decided in consultation with the woman, in line with the Health Directorate's supervisor. This is how soundness is ensured, through professional guidance. The assessment of the relevant women is individual and also requires a municipal offer from a health centre or midwife to care for postpartum women.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1917	‘The Swedish Match was rejected by the Health Directorate on its application for authorisation of tobacco-free snuff with nicotine. Whether we should follow the same logic as in this rejection – does the Minister of Health think that we should add sugar in sugar-free showers, or does the Minister of Health agree that it is a health effect that people use tobacco-free snubbing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1924	From 1989 until last year Norway had a ban on new tobacco and nicotine products, including tobacco-free nicotine snus. As from 1 July 2021, this prohibition was replaced by an authorisation system. This means that it is prohibited to import or sell new tobacco or nicotine products in Norway which are not authorised by the Directorate of Health. When examining applications, the Directorate-General for Health shall pay particular attention to whether the product in question can be attractive to children and young people or contribute to the start-up or normalisation of tobacco use. I see that it may seem illogical that nicotine snus without tobacco cannot be sold automatically in Norway as it is allowed to sell general tobacco snus. The very purpose of the authorisation system is to limit health damage and dependence resulting from the use of tobacco products and nicotine products. In particular, it is important to protect children and young people from new product types. As a consequence, new products which are potentially less harmful to health than products currently authorised may not be marketed in Norway. The Health Directorate has examined several applications for authorisation of tobacco-free nicotine nut. With regard to the specific matter referred to by the representative Hoksrud, it was rejected by the Directorate for Health with reference to the health risk of the product and the potential appeal in young people. Swedish Match has complained about the decision, and the appeal is pending. It is not natural for a State Council to comment further on this matter before the complaint is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1935	First of all, the picture behind the president shows that tobacco is used, and it's visible, at least in this room. I record that the Council of State refers to the Directorate of Health, which says that there may be uncertainty as to its impact, but it has nevertheless been decided to reject the application. The big question is, why did the Norwegian health authorities open up so that operators could apply for authorisation for new nicotine products when the first Directorate of Health refuses? We have a goal of a tobacco-free Norway in not many years, but we have a system that requires putting tobacco into the snuff so that it can be legal and sold in Norway. It sounds very molar.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1944	If the question is what is moulboic and not, I think the Council of State chooses not to answer that, but I want to contribute some reflections to the representative on the issue. Tobacco snus is allowed in Norway and Sweden for historical reasons, and if there had been a new product today, it is not certain that it would have been legal. It's a thought exercise also the representative Hoksrud should try on. The authorisation system for new products must ensure a balance between the availability of harmful products for established tobacco users while preventing, as far as possible, the introduction of products on the market that contribute to the dependence of new generations on nicotine. That's the balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1953	It would be interesting if the government had defined what's molar-like, but the point here and what seems strange, and I think many people don't fully understand, is that when there are products that are definitely better for the health of people, you should nevertheless refuse it. The question is why tobacco-free snuffs are not treated as e-cigarettes. Consideration shall be given to whether the product is likely to have a positive effect on public health. Does the state council think that tobacco-free snuff is more or less harmful than smoking and snuffing with tobacco? That's what's really the essential. If you think that public health is the most important thing, you should make sure that we get people to use products that are less harmful to health, not that you should keep putting what you don't want in this country, tobacco, into the products to get it legally approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1962	There is a balance between the availability of harm-reduction products for established tobacco users — those who want to quit and who can switch to a product that does not have nicotine — and at the same time preventing products on the market that contribute to new generations becoming dependent on nicotine, which is the basis. Then the Health Directorate has made an assessment. It disagrees with the representative Hoksrud. The actor has complained about his case, it is a complaint procedure, and then it is not right for me to go deeper into the issue than it is about the approval system for new products.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1969	Question 27 is already answered, and we're going to go to question 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1977	‘The Solberg government set up a group that looked at the examination in the context of the renewal, but alternative final assessment forms for the examination were not properly investigated. The examination group pointed out in its final report that the examination should be renewed [[Udir, 2020]] Will the Council of State consider studies of alternative final evaluation methods that are more in line with the requirements of trade renewal and technological developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e1984	The examination is an important part of the final assessment in both primary and secondary education. The exam gives students a good opportunity to demonstrate their competence in the subject and to be assessed by an external sensor. Although the exam has been cancelled in the last three years of school, I believe that we will still have the exam in the future. At the same time, it does not mean that I believe that today's examination system is perfect, and I agree with many of the weaknesses pointed out by the representative in his question. In order for the examination to continue to play an important role, it may be necessary to further develop the scheme. Both the number of examinations, the distribution of examinations and alternative assessment forms may be current changes to the scheme. Spring 2021 processed the then deposit Report. St. 21 for 2020-2021, ‘The completion reform – with open doors to the world and the future’. The notification also referred to the assessment field and had several actions as referred to in the final assessment. I have said that the government will continue its efforts to follow up the implementation reform, as well as the measures relating to evaluation. It is the Directorate of Education that is responsible for conducting and developing examinations. The Education Directorate systematically and research-based works to improve and further develop the entire assessment field. They are e.g. developing examinations in the new curricula in the field of vocational renewal in order to safeguard the interests referred to by the representative. They also assess whether there is a need for changes in the upper secondary programme subjects. Following the report of the examination team and the completion reform, the Directorate for Education is also in the process of evaluating and testing new forms of assessment. They see, among other things: on possible tests of written oral examinations, alternatives to the drawing scheme, and long-term tasks as an alternative final assessment. Work on such tests will take place in the long term, but some will also start up during the year. Much professional development is already taking place in the field of assessment. The Education Directorate keeps the Department and me informed about the ongoing work. As the various tests are carried out, we will have better basis for assessing long-term changes in examinations. I am concerned that the students will have the exam in the future, but at the same time I am fully convinced that the scheme we have today can be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2001	Thank you for a good answer. It is a pleasure to hear that there is work going on. What is an important point in the discussion of final assessment forms and examination forms is that it is important for students to have a final assessment. But what kind of form it's going to take is an interesting question to ask. In the extension of what the Council of State said about investigations and processes that are going on in the Education Directorate, I thought I would ask if it might be wise, for example. to allow some counties to test out alternative final evaluation methods — if they want to, and if there are any parties in the schools in question — and then examine the experience of such trials. How does the Council of State assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2008	The council should be honest that this is not something I have thought very carefully and thoroughly about. Let me just start with two introductions that in that case we have to think very carefully through. One is that the examination in its nature intends to be equal to everyone, and therefore the challenge of making individual projects for some states. The second is that since a coal is part of an experiment, it will have consequences that will follow them even in further training courses. At the same time, I believe that there is reason to consider different ways of testing different forms of assessment. There must be fair assessment methods, for which the representative is also concerned. There must be assessments that leave the student with an understanding of what he can and cannot do, and there must be evaluation methods that help both the teaching and the results of the student to remain experienced as useful and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2015	Thanks for the answer. The examination has several explicit purposes. Firstly, the examination is intended to provide information on the competence of the students at the end of the training course. In addition, the grades have an important sorting function, so to speak, when the students are going on in the system. However, the examination also has several implicit roles that are not formalised, such as: in the development of assessment practices in general — i.e. not final assessments, but other assessments — or to influence the understanding of the curriculum and thus the teaching of the subject. So in order to discuss the quality and validity of the exam, it's important that it's clearly clear what the purpose of the exam is. Does the Council of State consider that it may be relevant that the development of good assessment practices and the impact on education can also serve as a useful purpose for the final assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2022	I agree that quite a lot of different things in school are characterized by what we eventually end up testing and measuring and, for example, measuring. hold an examination in. We need to be conscious of the changes we are making, both in terms of the tests the students are going through, and in terms of the degree they are going through – how it affects back in terms of the priority of learning forces or resources at school. I'm concerned that we have a system in which we're always aware that exams are going to be an assessment, not part of the training, although having experience and having exams can be useful for people and students leaving school. I think we should be aware of how these things relate, how they shape each other, and I'm open to see if it can be part of the purposes that the representative describes that you can take in. But we're almost allowed to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2032	Let me say, before I ask the question, that the situation has changed incredibly much since I wrote the question. So even though perhaps the description of the situation in the question I am asking is out of date, I think it is still relevant. I therefore allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Millions of people in Ukraine need humanitarian aid and more than 700000 internally displaced. The invasion of Russia gives reason to believe that the number of asylum seekers from Ukraine will increase. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees said on 22 February that they do not yet see any increase in people as refugees from Ukraine, but that the UN is ready to help if the conflict gets worse. That's what it's doing now. How does the Council of State now assess this situation for Norway and what action will the government take to prepare Norway for an increase in arrivals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2041	It is as the representative began, quite right that this situation has changed a lot, and it continues to evolve. I appreciate the fact that the question still comes up, because it is nice to have an opportunity to give a brief overview of where we are now, and what the government thinks about it. I would like to begin by saying that the situation in Ukraine is terrible and worrying in very many ways. To me, and as I would also think applies to the rest of Norway, it is very bad to witness what is happening, that European citizens and people in our neighbourhood now have to flee from their homes because they are under attack from a neighbouring country. Norway will stand up for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people. I'm glad I'm feeling it's a broad political consensus – that there's a broad uprising in the population about that. The government is now working closely with other European and EU countries to find common solutions. Today we see a slight increase in asylum seekers from Ukraine to Norway, but it is still small. UDI has suspended applications for asylum from Ukrainian citizens, and there is no obligation to leave now for Ukrainian citizens who do not have a residence permit in Norway. It's suspended. One of the most important things we do right now is to help Ukraine and the neighbouring countries, who are now receiving very many refugees. We have already decided by the government to provide comprehensive humanitarian assistance to address the immediate needs of the refugees who are now seeking help in Ukraine's neighbouring country, and to Ukraine itself. We have also said that we are positive about contributing to the distribution of refugees within the framework of European cooperation. But it is too early to say how we will do this, it will require close dialogue with other European countries. Among other things, I have to: to Brussels later today to meet the other Ministers of Justice in Europe and discuss these very issues. With regard to migration towards Norway, we closely follow the migration picture around us in the world – of course on a general basis, but especially now in view of what is happening in Ukraine. We have contingency plans to handle an increase in arrivals to us. We also gained useful experience with the asylum crisis in 2015. This has helped us to have a strengthened plan in this area today. In addition, the government is now constantly working to intensify capacity and increase preparedness for a possible large number of arrivals in Norway in different ways, or relocation, in which Norway will participate as part of the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2054	Thank you very much to the Council of State for your answer. I would like to stress that I too feel that there is a broad political consensus that we are going to stand up for those in Ukraine, and that there is a broad political consensus that we will be willing to accept refugees to Norway, of which it is likely to come. The Council of State was concerned with the same thing as the Prime Minister has pointed out, about European burden-sharing. In the oral question procedure today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the main message from the Norwegian authorities to the European Union is that we are going to be rusty and that we are going to stand up. That, of course, also agrees with the Right. But in what way does the government now plan to anchor it in the Stortinget? And will the government be briefing on the signals that the government is now sending to our European colleagues on how we should deal with the Ukrainian population in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2061	The government is now constantly working to deal with this and find solutions, both the solutions required by us as a nation, and the solutions we need to find as part of Europe. We'll also come to the Storting properly, as far as usual, when it's necessary or right to do it. So it's important for us to have good dialogue with the entire political environment and the Storing. At the same time, the government now has to make assessments running every day, sometimes hour by hour. It is also important that we are aware of and take the responsibility required to be prepared in the event that this situation increases. We want to keep control, and we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2066	Thanks for the answer. We look forward to getting involved in that work. Of course, we also want to be constructive in order to get this done in a good way. Another question is how the government might consider saying that there is a mass migration situation that provides collective protection under the Foreign Affairs Act. It's the government that has the authority to decide if you want to do it. I note that some EU countries are calling for this to happen. When does the government plan to take a closer look at this? Is this something you're working on, and when would you possibly want to come back with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2073	This is one of the things that we're now evaluating and looking at. One thing is when people come here, another thing is how we're going to meet them, whether it's going to be through the usual asylum institute; are we going to use Section 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act and provide collective protection, are we going to do it in other ways? We must also bear in mind that Ukrainian citizens with biometric passports have visa freedom in Schengen for up to 90 days. So there's a little bit of a different thing that relates here. The government's input to this is that we follow up on what's happening in Europe. There is a warning that there will be a proposal to decide on tomorrow. We want to provide protection while we want to keep in mind that we all hope that this is a temporary situation. We have to do everything we can to help those who are now on the run until they can return home. And we're going to do it in a way that's also manageable for everyone who's going to stand up in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2081	‘In August 2021, the Government of Solberg presented the Action Plan ‘Freedom from violence’ on the prevention and combating of violence in close relations for 2021-2024. The action plan includes, inter alia, for the first time, a dedicated action area with 20 action points aimed at violence and abuse in Sami communities. The councils have announced that she will come up with a stepping-up plan, without it being clear what it will consist of. In what way will the Council of State follow up the Action Plan ‘Freedom from Violence’ and when will the Council of State present a plan of escalation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2086	Violence in close relationships is a serious crime that still affects too many. In the ultimate sense, this is violence that takes life. It gives us a clear commitment to do everything we can to ensure that it doesn't happen. For the government, it is an important task to prevent such crime from occurring and to ensure that individuals are guaranteed security, good legal certainty and available services throughout the country. Research also shows that people with a Sami background, and in particular Sami women, report a higher incidence of physical, mental and sexual violence than persons with a non-Samian background in the same geographical area — and that is also worrying. The government will work for Norway to be a leading country in terms of indigenous rights. We need to ensure good prevention and equivalent assistance services for all victims of violence and abuse, regardless of who you are and where you live. Violence and abuse is a challenge that is best addressed jointly, both in terms of the general challenge it is in society, and in terms of the specific, related to minorities such as the Sami people. For example, I'm going to visit the Sameting during the Sameting plenary session in March, where a main theme is just going to be violence and assault. We will look at the efforts to prevent and combat violence and abuse in Sami communities in the context of the general work against violence and abuse. It shall also be seen in the light of ongoing initiatives to promote language and culture and other work to strengthen mutual trust between the Norwegian authorities and the Sami population and other minorities. In order to ensure an equivalent level of assistance, there is also a need in the Sami area to integrate Sami language and cultural competences into all sectors and at all levels. In the Hurdal platform, the government has announced that the government will present an escalation plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. The plan shall be drawn up in cooperation between several departments and will have the security and legal certainty of the person concerned at the centre. A comprehensive and coordinated policy against violence in close relationships involves very many sectors, very many establishments, institutions and organisations. We have to work wide. Good interaction between levels of government and between different sectors at State, regional and municipal level is a prerequisite for quality in work and efficient use of resources. In addition, good cooperation between public, private and voluntary actors is important. The action plan against violence in close relations, freedom from violence, including the part dealing with violence and abuse in Sami communities, will follow up until the recovery plan is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2105	One of the measures of the Action Plan mentioned by the Council of State is to increase knowledge and competence of Sami languages and culture in the police and to ensure that reindeer police have Sami competence to prevent and follow up cases of violence in close relations. I myself met representatives of the Sameting last week, where they stressed that the follow-up of the areas of action in Sami communities is very important to them, and that extra efforts directed at the reindeer industry are something the industry itself has asked for. One of the challenges facing the Council of State is that in the core Sami regions there is a lack of trust in the Norwegian authorities. It's serious, especially for those who don't get the help they need. So my question to the Council of State is: What action has been taken to follow up the action plan in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2110	For several years, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has worked closely with the Sameting on these issues. These include: Incited research and organised several conferences, and dialogue is very good, and it provides a basis for addressing these challenges. On behalf of the Sametinget and the Ministry of Justice and Defence, National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress Report If you dare to ask, people dare to answer: The experiences of aid and police in violence in close relations in Sami communities, in 2017. It points out that the lack of linguistic and cultural competence in the auxiliary equipment prevents the provision of equivalent services to co-workers affected by violence and the NKVTS violence programme, funded by the Ministry of Justice, has also further strengthened research in this area. And then it's important for the government, in order to strengthen an equivalent assistance offer for Sami children exposed to violence and abuse, that we set up our own children's home in the Sami core area in 2022. We'll give this to the Police Directorate in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2119	My last question is just about the children's house, for the Solberg government granted 5 million. to this end, in the budget of 2022. On my written question to the Council of State about this, the answer, dated 1 March, was that the Department would entrust the Police Directorate with the task of facilitating such an establishment. In other words, nothing has happened after the government change, and now action is needed. This is about children, and in particular the legal security of Sami children, and the government has already taken steps to weaken the legal certainty of children in the context of the reversal of judicial reform and the lack of action here also affects children who sorely need this offer. So the question is quite specific: can the Council of State promise that the population of the Sámi core region will have its own children's home, and when can you expect it to be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2124	The Ministry will give the Directorate of Police the task of getting this in place in a short time. I myself was in the Churchnes not too long ago, and this was a theme. It's a topic that I'm very concerned about -- that we can reach out and help the children who are part of Sami communities and who need to meet where they are linguistic, cultural and geographical. So this I'm very concerned about. I am also very happy that the whole Storting was behind that 5 million grant. NOK 2022, which will also allow us to get started on that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2129	That being the case, it is no. 2, regular question time, processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-02.ana.ud27e2143	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
