ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former Parliamentary Representative and State Council Dag Jostein Fjærvoll died on 5 February last year. He was 74 years old. As a Christian People's Party politician, Fjærvoll set a deep trail, both in the local politics of Hadsel in the West, through his 12 years on the Stortinget, as a representative from the North, and as the Council of State in two departments of the central government. He entered the Stortinget in 1985 with a broad background of experience. He had used his professional life at the school, as a teacher, principal and principal in Melbu. He learned early on what politics is and what it can lead to. His father, Edmund Fjærvoll, had also been active in local politics and was also a major representative of the Christian People's Party for two periods. He himself became a member of the Hadsel Municipal Council in 1975, joined the Presidency in 1980, and was also a rapporteur from 1980 until he was elected to the Stortinget. He was a member of different committees in each of the three periods he met at Stortinget. For two periods he was a member of the presidency, first a period as vice-president of the Lamentations, then a period as vice-president of the Odelstinget. With his sure sense of the formal and constitutional rules, he fit well into the presidency. In the big group he contributed to the well-being with his good mood and quick lines. He was a pleasant and solution-oriented policy worker. At the 1997 big elections, Dag Jostein Fjærvoll had intended to be involved in politics, but when the central government was to be formed, with the Christian People's Party as the great and tone-setting party, he was one of those who was asked to be on the team, first as Minister of Defence, later as Minister of Transport. As in Stortinget, he was also in the government a colleague whom he greatly appreciated and listened to. He will be remembered for his strong Nordic commitment. Among other things, he received the task of working with a possible aggregation of Telenor and Telia. After the central government went off, Dag Jostein Fjærvoll engaged in the development of the part of the country he burned so heavily for, among others. as Executive Director of the Vesterålen University Centre. He was also engaged in church and community life, both as a member of the national government of the inner Maritime Mission and as a member of the South-Hålogaland Council of Bishops. Dag Jostein Fjærvoll was a significant politician who used the confidence he was given, and he will be remembered for his good mood and Northern Norway commitment. We remember Dag Jostein Fjærvoll for his social exposure and work in Stortinget. We bring peace to his good memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e68	The representative Audun Lighthouse, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate for Nordland, Hans Gunnar Holand, is now taking the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representatives Tuva Moflag and Åse Kristin Ask Bakke from 1 February onwards and until further notice from the representative, Dag-Inge Ulstein, on welfare leave from 1 February until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Tobias Hangaard Linge For Hordaland: Astrid Aarhus Byrknes For More and Romesdal: Berit Tønnensen
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e124	Tobias Hangaard Linge, Astrid Aarhus Byrknes and Berit Tønnensen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e135	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e140	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Silje Hemdal, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Carl I. Hagen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up an independent aid commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e146	The representative of Ingrid Fiskaa will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e151	On behalf of Christian Torset, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to streamline the practice of purchasing legislation when it comes to how business is going to comply with international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e156	The representative, Mr Vervik Bollestad, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e161	On behalf of the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for better maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e166	The representative, Mr Grotle, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e171	On behalf of the representatives of Linda Hofstad Helleland, Lene Westgaard-Halle and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a vision that no fishermen will be killed at sea in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e176	The representative, Mr Jørgensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e181	On behalf of the representative Marie Snee Martinussen and myself, I would like to make a proposal that the government applies § 2-4 of the main agreement for agriculture and open further negotiations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e186	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e204	Work on the State Council's protocols is a routine but important part of Storting's control of the government. In this document, we follow referrals and review regulations and appointments. There haven't been any dissidents in the government in the first six months of 2021. Only one pardon was granted during the period, and most of the applications have been rejected. The Committee did not comment on the pardon management. My predecessor, Dag Terje Andersen, once said that we should be very pleased that these apologies are not political, as they are in some other countries. That's a consideration I can subscribe to wholeheartedly. The regulatory review is a central part of the State Council's protocols. We've now spent a year with the corona, and the report we've now mentioned the first six months in 2021, and it clearly bears the mark of many regulations being issued. A Joint Committee has demonstrated that several of the regulations are drawn up on the basis of so-called delegated powers. I think it is very important to stress what the Committee wants for the future, and that is that it is clearly stated in the State Council Protocols which of the regulations this applies to, and to whom the power to design these has been delegated. This would significantly facilitate the work of the Committee. So I said that the committee is all about most of the setting, but there's a disagreement about some points. There are special comments from SV, Red and the Progress Party on the resolution on Norwegian staff contributions to Mali. That resolution has been graduated, it is exempt from disclosure in line with the Security Act and the Public Health Act. There are two minority proposals in the case. One is promoted by the Progress Party and the resolution is presented to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The second proposal, from Red, is that the Storting asks the government to publish the resolution. The right will not support any of these proposals. There is a long-standing practice in dealing with such issues by the Storting. If the Storting is to change the course of treatment, a thorough and principleal debate should be held on how the Storting's control of foreign policy should be. We have an excellent opportunity to discuss this in connection with the Harberg Committee and its Chapter 9, which the Committee now has for discussion. There we also have to decide on the draft Constitutional Law on amendments to Section 25. Then I do not warn you for the reason that the Right is going to order any change of course there either. But what's the right order, I think, is first dealing with this kind of principal question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e221	It is true, as the chairman of the committee said, that we are coming back to this issue – where there are some comments in the committee's position – about the extent to which the Storting should be involved in sending military forces to other countries. This concerns the follow-up to Chapter 9 of the Harberg Committee's suspension and the consideration of a proposal to amend the Constitution § 25. I would nevertheless like to refer to the fact that we have raised a specific case in the form of a comment in this setting. It is a Royal Resolution of 18 June 2021 on Norwegian personnel contributions to the Takuba Force in Mali, which has been graduated BECAUSED, with the exception of disclosure under the Security Act §§5-3 and §5-4, cf. Section 13 of the Public Procurement Act. There, the Progress Party and Red have referred to a majority opinion of all parties in the Foreign and Defence Committee, with the exception of SV, in the context of the discussion of Red's proposal for a representative on the Libya war and on the use of Norwegian defence powers abroad in the Innst. 227 S for 2018–2019. Then the committee said, all except SV: ‘Royal resolutions dealing with Norwegian strength contributions to international operations should, in the majority’s view, be published as a general rule in order to contribute to greater confidence in the government’s decision-making base.’;» It is this follow-up that we believe has been deficient, and that we need to come back to more thorough when it comes to the treatment of Chapter 9 of the Harberg Committee. But precisely this royal resolution I have come to the conclusion that at least the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence should be presented. Once it is marked LIMIT, it cannot, in my opinion, be published, as proposed by Red – I respect it. However, the Committee should be able to obtain the full royal resolution to the greatest extent possible. So I'm going to take up our suggestion, which is on page 5, first column, in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e233	Then the representative Carl I. Hagen brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e238	I'm just going to briefly account for SV's comments. It is nice that we have to deal with a matter of whether it should be secret why we send Norwegian soldiers to war abroad. That's strange, because it's hardly possible to imagine a more important decision than whether young people in uniform are going to risk taking a life or losing their own. And it's nice because it's full openness when the Great Government budgets the people's money, when we dispose of the people's natural resources, and when we adopt laws to protect the people, but it's secret when the government takes decisions that ultimately deal with life or death for those who are to stand by arms and defend our country. Soldiers also belong to the people, and we owe them the respect that decisions on the use of the defence force are made transparently. When the Libya report was presented in 2018, SV proposed that all participation in international operations should be justified by the Stortinget. It was just supposed to be missing. SV has also made several proposals, including this period, to amend the Constitution at this point, to ensure that the country does not go to war without the Stortinge having debated and adopted it in full public. War is too serious to shut down inside enclosed rooms. The Norwegian people are entitled to know why the country might go to war. The Swedish Constitutional Law amending the Constitutional Act § 25 is to be dealt with by Stortinget during this period, as is the part of the Harberg Committee's report on Stortinget's involvement and control in foreign and security policy. The latter points to some ambiguities surrounding the requirements for Storting’s consent to use Norwegian forces abroad. SV believes that there must be transparency about the question of participation in war, and that such decisions should be made in the Stortinget. How we deal with international operations should be determined on a principle basis, in the context of the aforementioned constitutional proposals and the examination of the Harberg Committee's report. SV therefore does not support the proposal of Red that the Stortinget should ask the Government to publish the Royal Resolution on participation in the Takuba Force in Mali. We also do not support proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. On the other hand, we support the resolution of the Red, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e249	Last summer, the Solberg government decided to send Norwegian soldiers to the African country of Mali under the leadership of the former colonial power of France, operation Takuba, and at the invitation of the Mali military coup d'état regime. This has practically no information for the population. If you look for the formal decision – called a royal resolution – on the government's websites, it's as if it never existed. The government has the secret stamp, which pointed out from here, the resolution and the State Talk on the basis of which the decision was then taken. So while we are today able to debate changes in the regulation of the Lottery Authority, we cannot debate whether Norway should once again send soldiers to war abroad, and that in a region one has already destabilised with hasty military operations, such as the war in Libya. An open debate would be healthy. The government's secret resolution has, in record time, rotted Norway into a foreign policy chaos that would be parochial if it wasn't so tragic. Mali has had two military coups in less than a year. Our soldiers shall be led by a former colonial power that has bombed the wedding and massacred the innocent. And we were invited by coupmakers who are now replaced by new coupmakers. The military regime has invited Russian soldiers of the Wagner Group, known for gross violations of human rights. In December, Norway joined the EU's sanctions against the Wagner Group and condemned the Mali regime for using them. So we condemn with one hand and give military support with the other. This spagata became too much for our neighboring Denmark. They've become unfamiliar with the military junta in Mali, so now they're all pulling out and warning that several Western countries are thinking of doing the same thing. In the media, we can read that the Big Government is insisting on sending Norwegian forces, why we don't know – as little as we were initially told why we are going to help a former European colonial power and a controversial coup regime in Mali, or what is going on before we withdraw. This secret team does not belong in a democracy. Sending armed forces to war abroad is one of the most serious decisions a state can make. It doesn't matter that that's what we should at least know about and talk about at least. It has been written by Stortinget during the treatment of the Libyan report, and it says: ‘Royal resolutions dealing with Norwegian strength contributions to international operations should, in the majority’s view, be published as a general rule in order to contribute to greater confidence in the government’s decision-making base.’;» I'll mention two important reasons. On the one hand, people are going to decide what the government is doing. They do not have the chance when both decisions and reasons are kept secret and hidden in a drawer. The second reason is to make sure that the government actually makes as thorough judgements as war participation requires. The Libya Committee's report concluded that royal resolutions on participation in international military operations must include: an assessment of the international legal basis for participating in the operation; Framework for the use of Norwegian military power, including command and control an assessment of whether the requirements of the Basic Law Section 25 are met and an assessment of whether the operation is a ‘war’ within the meaning of the Basic Law, and in that case what makes it ‘in defence of the country’. objectives; and Duration of the effort The processing of the Libya Committee's report by the Storting is behind these requirements and requires appropriate follow-up by the government. A secret resolution cannot be followed up in the light and examined. We cannot go point by point through the Storting Checklist and talk openly about whether the government has taken the precautions it is going to take. For us in Red, it is totally unacceptable. We therefore ask that the Royal Resolution on Norwegian personnel contributions to the Takuba Force in Mali be published. The representative from the Right says that we cannot have a debate about participating in war without having a more thorough debate on whether to debate the treatment first – but sending Norwegian forces into war can be done without debate. I think that's a little weird. Yesterday we could read about Mali throwing out France's ambassador. Given the current chaos, Red is also promoting today a loose proposal that Norwegian soldiers should not be sent to Mali until the government has explained the changed situation in the country and the changed assumptions of the military operation. We will also vote in favour of minority motions for resolutions No. 1st@item: inlistbox I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e294	The representative Seher Aydar then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e299	The representative Frölich, the chairman of the committee, said the most important thing in his speech about the debate related to sending international forces to foreign operations. It is said that the people must be enlightened, and we who are sitting on the Stortinget are the people's representatives. That is why we have the State Council protocols to deal with. This allows the members of the Committee to read the Royal Resolution and see what is in the Royal Resolution. Then I think – when it has been said that we are going to consider both Chapter 9 of the Harberg Committee and subsequently the Constitutional proposals – that this is the right time to discuss how Norway treats and assesses sending to and participating in foreign operations. I do not think it is right to change the course of a case on the State Council protocols. The press release related to this has been sent, and the defence also responds to questions related to what the situation is today in Mali, and what assessments you are making. So one explanation of vote: the Labour Party is not going to vote for minority proposals No. 1 and 2 and also not for Red's loose proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e308	I felt to explain why neither the Left will vote for any of the proposals that have been promoted today. A lot has been said about the general discussion of the principle, but I must point out that, for the Left, we agree with the principle of the principle that several of the proposers have to ensure as much publicity as possible and transparency around the decisions taken. I absolutely do not believe that decisions to go to war are something we should take lightly, which I feel is being insinuated a little between the lines of the pulpit. The reason why we do not agree with these proposals is that we believe these are very serious decisions. What is referred to from the pulpit is a small part of what was the majority's opinion in the vote on the Libya report. However, where both the representative of the Progress Party and the representative of the Red Party are stopping, it is just before the next quotations that are contributing to nuance this picture considerably, I believe. I refer to what has been referred to again in that setting, i.e. the Ministry of Defence opinion to Document 8:68 S for 2018–2019, where they say that, for example. it would not be appropriate to publish information challenging the security of operations, the safety of personnel or the relationship with allies. I think this is very relevant to highlight in this debate, because it is a particularly important perspective when we are discussing what and how much to publish. Although I am quite clear that the general rule is as much openness and disclosure as possible, one must also consider the security of those who are actually going to carry out these tasks, when making these decisions. I believe that the examination of the Libya report gave us important rules on how these royal resolutions should be drawn up, what the treatment should be. The left is in a further discussion if it becomes relevant, and that is going to happen, for example. in the follow-up to the much-mentioned Harberg report. But to adopt a publication here today, I believe that I violate many of the principles to which the majority also referred at the time. Then I would just like to comment briefly on the proposal of the Progress Party, which will not be supported by the Left either. I think it's a little different than the other proposal. The reason why we do not agree with this proposal is that there is also an underlying fundamental question of where to place power and responsibility, how to consult the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I do not think it is right to adopt a single decision here. It's better to have a fundamental discussion about how that consultation should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e321	Several representatives have argued well why publication should not take place. So I just want to pick up a few points in this context. Participation in Takuba was decided by the previous government following a regular consultation with the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 18 June last year, before the matter was dealt with by the Council of State later that day. Updates have also been provided to the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, both on 16 December last year and at the latest, on 14 January 2022. For various reasons it was not appropriate to send soldiers to Takuba, among others. because it was not possible to achieve a sufficient legal framework with Mali that would ensure the safety of our soldiers. They were therefore not sent to Mali and have not participated in Takuba. Let me stress that if it would in any way be relevant to do this at some point, the Storting will be consulted in a regular manner, so that it is kept under normal procedures. As of today, it is not relevant to send Norwegian forces to Takuba. In that way, I guess I've blackmailed out proposal No. Three from Red. As far as the other two proposals are concerned, there have been good arguments from several of the big business representatives about why you don't want to vote for them, so I don't see any reason to go into that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e338	I wonder if the Council of State can inform us whether it has been taken into account or taken into account that France, which has invited Norway to Mali, is now in conflict with the cup makers in Mali, and how Norway is dealing with the fact that Denmark, our neighbouring country, is unwanted there and is withdrawing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e343	Yes, of course it is part of the assessment that was made. I have regular contact with both my Danish colleague and my French colleague and have discussed the tense situation in Mali, quite often with them. And as I also said from Stortinget's pulpit, it has not been possible for us to have a legal framework that ensures the safety of our soldiers in a way that makes us feel safe to enter Mali. So the answer is yes, it has been evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e348	Thank you very much for your answer. It is reassuring that the soldiers are not being sent yet. I wonder if, at the end of the day, the Council of State can also say something about what is going on in order for Norway to withdraw the decision not to send soldiers there, or at all what is going on in order for Norway to actually enter Mali. Is there something we can be informed about?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e353	Yes, the Stortinget will be properly briefed. If it would in any way be relevant to send soldiers to Mali, both the government will be thoroughly discussed, in the light of the security policy situation we are seeing, and the Storting will be briefed. As of now, it is not relevant to send soldiers to Mali.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e358	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e375	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will tell you that we have some problems with the clock system on the speaker's chair, but the President has an overview of the clock and will give notice when it's half a minute left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e384	There I hoped to have unlimited speaking time, but then I confess that the President has control! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. With the exception of a few minor comments from the Right and the Left and Red respectively, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is in agreement on this matter. Clinical studies are the main means of getting a safe knowledge of the effectiveness and safety of the treatment given to patients. It is therefore important to address the findings of the Riksrevision in the study, where the objective has been to assess how regional health businesses discharge their responsibilities for just clinical treatment studies. The study concludes that patients’ access to clinical treatment studies is not good enough, the studies are not sufficiently integrated into patient treatment, health care companies have little attention to research, and it is possible to increase the number of clinical treatment studies. The degree of criticism of the national audit in this report is ‘critical’. Because we know that treatment studies can save lives, as the life of Jan Erik was saved. In the autumn of 2011, he received an offer of immunotherapy at the Radium Hospital in Oslo after having tried countless treatments to control pelvic fractures with dispersal. Jan Erik is alive today at best. It's such stories this case to the seventh and the last is about. Thanks to the Cancer Association for the dissemination of Jan Erik's history and for the good input on the road further. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes, in the light of what I have said, that more and more equivalent and integrated clinical treatment studies are needed, and wants health care companies to have more focus on research. In the past, the size has set clear targets for increasing the number of treatment studies in healthcare companies and for offering more patients to participate in them. The failure to achieve results in health businesses is, as I have said, critical. This matter has been and is important for both the previous and the current government. In line with the National Action Plan on Clinical Studies for 2021–2025, the number of treatment studies should double over four years. It requires systematic work and is something the government and health and care minister Ingvild Kjerkol wants to implement. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will follow this matter further. Finally, I would like once again to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this important matter, and I look forward to following the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e403	The President may state that the rapporteur is doing well within the 5 minutes allocated. And it is that both the case rapporteur and the Council of State have the advantage that they can have an unlimited number of posts in their cases when they are in that position, but this went very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e408	Health laws tell us what hospitals are for. They shall provide healthcare to all those who need it and shall facilitate research and education. This report tells us that hospitals have insufficiently facilitated research through clinical studies. I am in the Riksrevision's criticism of many health professionals who do not have enough attention to research. These controls should weigh the attention between the different tasks of hospitals. In the handling of the case, the entire Committee has appreciated the fact that the previous government launched the First National Action Plan on Clinical Study in January 2021. I also note that, in response to the Riksrevision, the outgoing Council of State sees it necessary to point out that the department does not control at health care level. Perhaps the Council of State would have noticed more about the research in health care agencies if they had managed this themselves, rather than creating an action plan. Therefore, I am pleased that the new government will now look at how we manage hospitals, in order to ensure strong political and democratic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e417	It is an overall committee that indicates that the study determines that patients’ access to clinical trials is not good enough. The studies are not sufficiently integrated in patient treatment. Health businesses have little attention to research and it is possible to increase the number of clinical treatment studies. We also point out that the Riksrevision believes it is critical that many health companies have little attention to research, and this is in the light of the fact that research is one of the four main tasks in hospitals and the Stortinge’s objectives to increase the number of clinical treatment sites. The Committee endorses the criticism of the Riksrevision. It is the Council of State that can give instructions to regional health establishments, which can in turn give instructions to health establishments under the regional level. I hope that the Council of State will confirm that she and the Department will instruct the boards of regional health companies to implement what the Riksrevision, with the full support of the Committee, recommends in the nomination. I ask the Council of State to confirm, when she gets the floor, that she will actively follow up the governance of regional health companies, so that they are also instructed to make contact, i.e. with health businesses. So I have noticed that there is an overall committee asking the National Audit Office to follow the development of more and more equivalent and integrated clinical treatment studies, and whether health care companies have more focus on research. This means, of course, that the National Audit Office will then look into whether the Council of State is actively following up the governance of regional health companies, as I have just requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e428	This report points to important weaknesses in the way hospitals operate. Doctors and health business managers feel that tight budgets require priorities to be set that make the operation go round and deliver in the areas where health businesses are measured, including: waiting and package sequences. Now we have a report that shows one of the many consequences of corporate economic thinking being the basis of our hospitals. When it comes to it, we see, among other things, long-term investments, such as: research, ends up a little sideways, and as the rapporteur so well pointed out, this is about the fact that it can save lives. That is why this matter is so important. The national audit has produced several important and rather discouraging reports. This is one of several where the National Audit Office has found a gap between policy objectives and actual practice in health enterprises. We also need to be able to see it in a broader context, such as when the National Audit Office’s studies on mental health services found it highly critical that health businesses had not met the objectives of the Ministry of Health and Health regarding the golden rule, which is about the growth of mental health protection, or when the National Audit Office’s studies on health companies’ investments in construction and medical equipment showed that health companies have not complied with the requirements of the Department, after the Stortinget concluded in 2011 that the situation did not satisfy the applicable requirements in many places. The report we are now examining, and all these reports, point to the same thing. These reports refer together to the lack of influence of the elected representatives on the operation of health establishments. We in Red believe that is a democratic problem, and we need to see it in the broad context. That is why I also look forward to the government gradually delivering on the overall health business model.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e439	The National Audit Office’s study provides a very important status description of clinical treatment studies in healthcare companies. I support the conclusions of the study and will do my part to help follow it up. As previously announced, this government supports the content and direction of the National Clinical Study Action Plan. The National Audit Office’s study of clinical treatment studies in health care establishments came at a favourable time. From my point of view, the two documents are mutually reinforcing. The Government aims to provide Norwegian patients with world-class public health and care services, irrespective of address and wallet. Clinical studies help to extend treatment provision with new treatment methods and to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of methods already in use. The vision and objectives of the action plan have continued in the governance dialogue with the health regions, but I have changed the main objectives of the 2022 mission document. The two main objectives are now ‘strengthening research, innovation and competence and improving quality and patient safety’. The overall leadership states that clinical research should be an integral part of patient treatment. Furthermore, we provide evidence that it should be stimulated for clinical studies and that the overview of active clinical studies at healthnorge.no should be up-to-date and provide good information to healthcare professionals and patients. The Ministry will monitor the need for further action to improve the awareness of opportunities for participation in clinical studies. Health regions have been entrusted with the task of establishing a joint agreement for the conduct of clinical studies at so-called satellite centres. This is a new form of conduct of clinical studies that facilitates several studies for several patients and clinics, including several decentralised studies. An important objective is the transfer of competences, the geographical distribution of research and better opportunities for recruiting more patients. With these clear leaders, the government wants to stress that research is a statutory task in health companies and to follow up the conclusions of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office considers it critical that many health business boards have little attention to research. I expect the government to take note of the criticism and put research on the agenda. They are able to do so, now that all the new governments in health regions have representatives with research skills. My impression is that the National Action Plan for Clinical Studies and the National Audit Office study are being followed up. For example, the Board of Health Nord RHF has asked the Executive Director to follow up on health businesses to achieve the objectives of the clinical study action plan and, if not, take action. I agree that patients' access to clinical trials is not good enough. The national audit concludes that it is possible to increase the number of clinical trials and the number of patients participating in them. In the National Action Plan for Clinical Studies, the objective is to achieve a 5 pst rate. in clinical studies in 2025 and that the number of clinical studies conducted in the specialist healthcare system in 2025 has doubled. In 2020, the number was 2.5 pst. by relevant patients recruited for clinical studies in healthcare establishments and private ideals. It shows a calculation carried out in 2021. We do not yet have figures for 2021, but from some environments an increase in the number of clinical studies is reported in 2021. It promises well for the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e460	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e477	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e484	The Coronapandemic has put the population, workplaces and businesses in a situation that is unparalleled in modern history. The measures taken are among the most interventional we have seen in peacetime, and they have had a significant economic impact on Norway. There's used huge sums of money to keep the wheels going and society stable through the pandemic. When Stortinget was going to set out guidelines for the support we obviously had to provide, we were clear as follows: the financial measures should be targeted and temporary. The aid was to be paid out as soon as possible and followed up with subsequent checks. Now we have the phase after the National Audit Office's examination of these arrangements. First, they find that the corona aid was quickly put in place as the closure of the country threatened Norwegian businesses and jobs. Secondly, they find that the vast majority of applicants received support quickly, but some had to wait disproportionately for a long time, and many small players may have fallen outside. The business compensation scheme was the largest of the five schemes. For this arrangement, 50 billion were set aside. I spent NOK 7 billion. kr. This was also the most effective of the arrangements. The tax rate treated and paid 90 pst. of the applications in less than one week. It's because very much was fully automated, and the system was simple and understandable. In addition, there were separate schemes for media enterprises, cultural actors, volunteering, sport, as well as a maintenance scheme. You might say that fewer special arrangements would have been better, and that you had a single search scheme to a greater extent. There is something the Riksrevision recommends that we consider for future crises. The main finding of the National Audit Office is that the compensation schemes were mainly implemented in a timely manner, that the enterprises most affected were supported by the schemes, and that the administration largely established control mechanisms that worked. This is good fun. Weaknesses and learning points have also been identified. It was not possible to make arrangements that did not have any degree of bias and weakness. Among these, it should be mentioned that the schemes did not embrace all the groups in need of support, in particular smaller actors who did not have experience in writing applications or applying for support. Fortunately, in-flight adjustments were made to the schemes in order to try to make the best possible use of them. What everyone has agreed on, is that no company should come out better than they would normally have, but where the committee shares, is in the view of the prohibition of dividends. Right there must be very clear. We believe that a dividend ban would largely only lead to a postponement of the dividends that naturally belong to an economy. To a large extent, there will be a symbolic marking that does not take over that the main purpose of the support was just to keep the wheels running, not to stop. In fact, dividends are, whether you like it or not, some of the things that keep the wheels running in an economy – not only because it has to be economic growth and activity, but also because many business owners are totally dependent on the profits, whether it's at pay, to pay off liabilities, to take dividends from one business to cover it in another, or because you have to pay taxes on wealth. There might be a lot of reasons. A clean ban would not work. In conclusion, I think we should be realistic about one thing: although the arrangements have worked well, and the management has been good, we do not yet have the fascination with how the crisis packages have worked. We'll get that first there in the horizon. But the knowledge that this report gives us is useful to build on for future pandemic management.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e505	This is about the $10 billion that the government gave business in 2020, and whether they came out as they should. Did they go to preserve viable jobs or in the pockets of owners who had more than enough already? The first thing that strikes me in the National Audit Office's report is how much better support the owners got than those who do the work. Workers who become unemployed have to deliver a notification card every two weeks and confirm that they are still unemployed, that they are participating in a job search course and that they are willing to take any job. If they can document this and maybe more, they can get a certain percentage of their income in cash. The owners, on the other hand, could cancel as many employees as they wanted, and still qualify for full support. They could also pay themselves as much of the taxpayers’ dollars they wanted, in terms of dividends, bonuses and executives’ salaries – no report card there in the farm. We in Red tried several times to correct this injustice, but we were not heard. We put forward proposals to avoid the misuse of crisis mechanisms, avoid the distortion of public funds and prevent the pandemic and its management from contributing to increased disparities. What happened was that the owners took 11 pst. greater dividends in the 2020 crisis year than in the previous year. In close proximity to businesses, major distortions have also developed. The National Audit Office points out that the compensation schemes were more favourable for groups of subsidiaries, typically large enterprises, than for enterprises with branches, i.e. typically smaller enterprises. Many small businesses, non-governmental organisations and sports teams, were kept below the minimum level of lost income and were thus not supported. Small players do not have a lot of lawyers to write applications separately, and many in several cases have no support. That's why a lot of people didn't get it. Nor were any demands made on banks and property companies to contribute to the job. We did not secure the control mechanisms we should have had, early enough. That is what this report points to. We should learn from it, because it is unacceptable that billions of dollars are distributed through schemes that enrich some large owners, while other groups in society fall outside. Now we expect the new government to use the chance to ensure that our common resources are going to save jobs instead of the bank accounts of the most powerful owners. It is, after all, all that is intended behind these aid schemes – or that should be the purpose of these aid schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e538	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e550	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to send Norwegian soldiers to the Takuba Force in Mali until the Government has explained to the Government the changed situation in the country and the changed assumptions of the military operation.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e576	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to publish a Royal Resolution on participation in the Takuba Force in Mali.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e593	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a Royal Resolution on participation in the Takuba Force for the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee [[GROANS]] The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-01.ana.ud318e758	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
