ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e53	Honourable co-representatives! Former Deputy Mayor Borghild Røyseland fell asleep on 13 July 2020, 93 years old. Russia was one of the female veterans of the Christian People's Party, and could look back on a diverse and diverse political career, both in organisational work and as local politicians, state politicians and national politicians. She was born in Kvinesdal, but lived most of her life in Sandnes. As many other Christian People's Party profiled female politicians, she began her political involvement in the party's women's movement. In 1965 she became head of the KRF Women's Local Team in Sandnes, and in 1969 she became head of state. From 1972 she was a popular politician, first in Sandne's city government and chairmanship until 1979, then in the social system until 1984. In the last period she was the leader of this, and social policy was also the heart of Russia when she was elected to the Stortinget as a permanent representative in 1985. In the two preceding periods she had been an alternate and met a number of times. In addition, she had been the county representative since 1979 and the county food rapporteur from 1983 to 1985. She was re-elected to Stortinget in 1989, but to the 1993 elections she said she was re-elected. For six years, from 1978 to 1984, she was a prominent leader of KRF Women in Norway and also became an honorary member of KRF Women. Russia was particularly committed to improving pension rights. Special mention is made of widowers. As a politician, she had active support in her dear Ole, who unfortunately died relatively early, shortly after Røyseland became a rich politician. In addition to their political work, Russia gave much of its time and energy to various forms of Christian work and to the work of adultery. As a politician, few were who, in the same way as Russia, could art be mild in form, but strong in content. She always showed clearly what she stood for, and where the limit of compromise went. Finally, Russia was closely involved in politics and society. She was also an honorary member of the Rogaland Christian People's Party. We remember Borghild Røyseland for her social exposure and work in the Storting and shine peace over her good memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e82	From the meeting of the alternate of Nordland, Hans Gunnar Holand, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget on Thursday 17 February under the permission of the representative of Willfred Nordlund, cf. Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 5, second sentence. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Nordland, Eirill DeLonge, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Willfred Nordlund. The third alternate for Nordland, Skjalg Hamnes, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Skull Hamnes is present and will take the seat. An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese on Thursday 17 February is submitted by the Workers' Party. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Agnes Nærland Viljukreis, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e124	Agnes Nearby Willow branch is present and will take the seat. The representative, Linda Hofstad Helleland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e131	On behalf of the big business representatives Nikolai Astrup, Tina Bru, Lene Westgaard-Halle, Bård Ludvig Thorheim, Liv Kari Eskeland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a large-scale investment in Norwegian hydrogen and ammonia development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e136	The representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e141	On behalf of myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to prevent Afghans from being forced to return to Afghanistan. I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Article 39(c) of the Storting Rules of Procedure, since this concerns a suspension of the exit obligation to Afghanistan that UNE has notified is repealed from 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e147	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e152	On behalf of the representatives of Grete Wold, Kathy Lie, Ingrid Fisaa and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative to secure children who have been exposed to the failure of the public, equal access to compensation regardless of the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e157	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e162	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Sofie Högestøl and myself, I would like to make a proposal to step up Norwegian support for Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e167	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e172	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on full broadband coverage and the realization of the gigabit society by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e177	The representative of Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e182	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Abid Raja, Jan Tore Sanner, Kari-Anne Jønes, Margret Hagerup and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on a plan to resume lost professional and social learning and close knowledge gaps for students in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e187	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. It is not lacking in the proposal for a representative during this period. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e194	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen and Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen and Ingerd Schou are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 3 on today’s map is deleted, as interpellant has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e216	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e223	This issue has the title: Better care for the needs of society for the protection and treatment of seriously ill people. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. I agree with everyone who says that mental health protection has been down priorities for too long. The working party agrees and has already started work on it. It is one of the main health priorities of the Workers' Party-Center Party government. I fully understand impatient patients, relatives and not least those who work in healthcare. The roadmap for mental health, with earmarked funds to ensure increased capacity in the specialist health service and to stop the building-up of bed places, has been long-lasting and a need that we have known for a long time. In view of this, the Hurdal platform has also said that it is necessary to evaluate the changes to the Mental Health Act on the introduction of the requirement for consent when entering into forced mental health protection. So it's a work that's already going on. In addition, comprehensive work has been started on the drug field. Money and priorities are also important. Therefore, it is important and wise to start increasing basic funding for hospitals, where mental health should be given priority. It is also stated in the letter of assignment as number one. A major challenge is that we lack health professionals. It's going to be important if we're also going to be able to get to that escalation in mental health protection. So I agree that it was a worrying conclusion last year. We had several serious events, so that then there is debate, is fully understandable. There is a strenuous balance between the individual’s right to freedom and society’s demands for security. But having a mental disorder, including serious suffering, is not the same as being dangerous. Most of them are. It's treatment that's the way to go, and we have to make sure that people get the help they need, that they get the right help at the right time. We also have a great responsibility not to stigmatise seriously ill patients. I think we should think about – even when we write and discuss. It is also the case that coercion is different – we also have to bring that shade with us in this debate. But let there be no doubt: this government should follow up on work on mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e240	Yes, there is a dark backdrop behind some of what we are discussing today – tragic events last fall, but also very demanding borderlines, especially linked to this between health and criminal law and the use of coercion. For the right, it is important to emphasise that the general rule for health care is that it should be voluntary. Although in some cases coercion is a necessary part of patient treatment, it is important to stress that coercion is the most powerful instrument we have, and that it should only be used if it is justified. Then, as I said, there is a difficult balance between the individual's right to freedom and society's demands for security. There are also very difficult balances to recognise that professionals who make the consent assessments have. One of the goals is that people get good treatment and get caught early, so we don't have to use force. That's the right starting point. It was also the overall goal in 2017, as I knew it, was a cross-political agreement here in Stortinget. The legislative changes that were then made were also ex post evaluated, and the conclusion was that this has led to increased legal certainty and improved the possibility of user involvement. Therefore, the objective must continue to be a reduction in the use of coercion and that coercion should only be used where there is a real need. Then we also have to bring with us that it is possible to use coercion. Although the implementation of the legislative changes occurred after 2017, there was actually an increase in the use of coercion in the following years. I see that the Progress Party has a loose proposal in the Chamber today. It is a little difficult to understand the intention of that proposal, all the time mentally ill people who pose a danger to themselves or others are under compulsion with today's legislation. Therefore, it is difficult to understand what the Progress Party believes that freedom should be properly deprived. Then it's also completely impossible to recognize yourself in the picture that the Workers' Party and Cecilie Myrseth are drawing of Right's stakes in this field. Psychiatric health has been a clear right-hand priority for eight years. It has contributed to a growth of 2,600 years' work in municipal mental health and drug care, a historical commitment to school health and health care of 1.3 billion. kr. 93.8 pst. by the municipalities now have psychologist because we have called for psychological competence. We have been focusing on alcohol and mental health in the specialist health service, but there is still work to be done – for us and for the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e253	In the Progress Party we often say that ‘my freedom ends where yours begins’. That means that I can do what I want, as long as it doesn't affect the freedom of others to live their lives. It is a good slogan, which is worth dwelling on relating to the matter we are now dealing with. Let me say: seriously mentally ill people are as much worth and have the same human rights as others. But we see that innocent people, neighborhoods, communities and cities can feel just how this freedom can also become their freedom – because the life and behaviour of serious mentally ill people can negatively affect everyday life. For this reason, the Progress Party wants an impact assessment to be carried out, inter alia, by: the consent requirement of the Health Care Act of 2017, as well as changes in both this and the penal code, in order to better ensure the need for society to protect – and treat – seriously mentally ill people who could pose a risk to themselves and others. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is sadly alone on this request in this matter. Societies are changing, mental disorders are increasing in scope, in many cases the auxiliaries are not in place, and resources are too small. That is why the Progress Party prioritised 900 million. kr extra to build more daily places in psychiatry in our alternative state budget for 2022. We believe that society needs protection from some serious mentally ill people who are considered to be a danger to themselves and others, by being subjected to mandatory mental health protection. For it has to be said that there are legal security challenges for people who are at risk to themselves or others, they do not have sufficient follow-up — whether by coercion or coercion. There are possible individual items that have received media attention are mentioned by other speakers. With regard to our loose proposal, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen comments, I assume that the proposal put forward by Hoksrud in his post says something about the foundation for it. I will briefly mention that in my home municipality a serious mentally ill person fell between all the chairs. He could not be subject to processing under the law of his own consent. A neighbor lived in fear, as did children and employees in a nursery. Police and health were on frequent visits, but lacked legal support to intervene with forced help. It is in such cases that the Progress Party believes that the use of compulsory mental health protection provides the opportunity to help the sick – hopefully back to a life where he will understand that his freedom ends at the beginning of others. I bring this to the attention of the Advance Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e270	The representative Morten Wold has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e275	Earlier this week I met the professionals at the Change Factory, who gave me some advice on behalf of very many children and young people in Norway who have different experiences. The book ‘Psychiatric Health Protection — From Us Who Know It’ states very wisely about the accumulated experiences. It says: «We who come to mental health protection are whole people, with strengths and weaknesses, and have a life of both good and bad. Many of us have experienced that this ‘disappears’ in the meeting with the practitioners. It is important for us that you remember and understand that we are not primarily “patients” or the diagnosis you give us.” It's important that we also remember this in this room. All people may experience a need for a follow-up to mental health protection during their lifetime. There has been a broad consensus in Norway that the provision of health care to those with mental illness should be readily available and integrated in the provision of public health and primary health services. The goal has been that everyone should be able to live the best possible life with the health you have. Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party, which has been a member of the Solberg Government, a government that did not honour the promise of following up mental health with the necessary resources. It was a government with three public health ministers, named Åse Michaelsen, Sylvi Listhaug and Terje Søviknes – all from the Progress Party. In 2014, the Solberg government introduced the golden rule, where mental health would be given more resources than somatic. The National Audit Office’s inquiry strongly criticised the failure to comply with the Golden Rule, although it had been an explicit objective of the specialist healthcare service to prioritise mental health protection over somatic matters. Thus, national health establishments have not been able to achieve the six-year target. At one point, the Psychologists' Association stated that the golden rule is a political bluff. I have to agree with your statement. Normalisation of mental disorders, reduction of large dailyinstitutions, co-location and integration with somatic care have been, and are still, very important. Furthermore, it is important to continue work on strengthening the local first line, outpatient treatment, DPSs, outpatient teams and the entire provision of services in the municipality. We recently had another debate in this room on the reduction of psychiatric hospitals. It is a fact that in this room we have been much better off reducing the capacity of mental health protection in the specialist health service, without building up enough capacity in the treatment provision in the municipalities where people live. We must have both low-threshold services and available mental health services with enough staff, who have time for people who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e293	Forces can be very invasive, and it can be traumatic in itself and should be avoided as far as possible. Red believes that the problem pointed out by the proposers needs to be addressed through a strengthened supply of mental health rather than increased use of coercion. But a psychiatry without coercion requires better framework conditions, increased competence, good manning and user involvement. We have to work for a society that includes, not exclude. We need to strengthen the overall prevention work that everyone needs through – through kindergarten and school and in everyday life – and we need to strengthen maternity care and increase the staffing of kindergartens and schools. We have to give the contact teachers enough time to have the extra talk with students who need it, or to have close cooperation with parents and other agencies. Both school students and students report in various surveys that they feel more lonely and have more mental health problems now under the pandemic. We need to strengthen the layers around the children and the family, and then we need to build up the general welfare services, and not down. At the same time, helping people who are struggling needs to be improved. Different help phones tell about massive traffic, waiting lists for psychologists are long, and there are too few low-threshold services. We know that too many people with mental disorders get either no help or little help. On Mother’s day I couldn’t turn on my mother’s thread or share a cake – I had to light a light on a grave in Trondheim. As a relative, I've seen the psychiatry fall together in front of us, and I know what the consequences are. Lowering bed places in psychiatry is a serious problem, and the consequence is mental health protection that does not have enough resources to be there when people need it. A central point that has emerged in matters that have gained considerable space in the media image lately — about mentally ill people who have committed acts of violence or suicide — is that the follow-up after insertion has been minimal. Police and specialist health services do not cooperate, but push the patients between themselves, and the after-care system is almost absent. The services are broken up, and the different terms don't communicate. Psychiatric health has been starved on resources over a long period of time. Although there has been a political objective to strengthen mental health since the 1990s, services have been cut. Institutions have fallen by over 30 pst. in 10 years. The specialists themselves say that the bedtime is too short for investigation and treatment, and the reception facilities in the municipalities are not satisfactory. It is high time that mental health was given priority. We need to have more long-term sites and expand and stabilise municipal services, and work well at prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e312	In 2017, lack of consent competence was introduced as a condition for forced observation, forced mental health protection and treatment without consent when there is no risk to the patient’s life or the life or health of other persons. We in the government will follow up the Hurdal platform and evaluate the condition of lack of consent in the Mental Health Act. We need new knowledge, including: on what measures can respond to the challenges we see. We've got a lot of good insights about important perspectives and issues. I am now working, among others. together with the Minister of Justice and Preparedness, to complete the mandate for the evaluation. We would like, among other things: look at how current legislation is practised and what challenges services, users and relatives are facing. We will also ask the police and prosecution authorities about their experience after the amendment of the law, and whether new challenges have arisen for their response to the legislative change. Such an evaluation must also make it possible to make legislative changes in order to have a code that works well for patients, relatives and health professionals to apply it. Force is sometimes a necessity, but the goal must be proper use of coercion. The government is committed to creating good conditions for people with mental disorders, their relatives and those who work in the services. Good treatment at the right time is also preventative. Human rights require us to balance the right to self-determination with the right to health. We have said in the Hurdals platform that we want to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, CRPD. The Minister of Justice and Security and I have a common responsibility to protect the community from people who may be dangerous to others. We will continue to work to ensure serious ill people better and past help and good cooperation between health services and the police whenever necessary. We are also working on a new escalation plan for mental health with earmarked funds. The escalation shall have priority over municipalities, but also contribute to increased capacity in the specialist health service and prevent the dismantling of bed places. The provision to people with serious mental and drugrelated health challenges will have an important place in the work on the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e334	For many years, there has been a challenge of widespread use of coercion in Norway. There was a NOU from the Stoltenberg government that our government took hold of, and that led to a change of law in 2017. Then there is also a NOU after 2017, which has reinforced the significance of the changes that were made in 2017. The Forced Law Committee looked at the use of coercive measures throughout the healthcare system. Now, when the Council of State and the Government are going to have an evaluation of the legislative changes in 2017, what does it mean for progress in the work of the Forced Law Committee? A joint law has been sent to the hearing, and we are concerned that it is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e342	The Forces Commission proposes a common health legislation on the use of coercive measures. We will come back to the follow-up to that work and the subsequent hearings. Since the condition of lack of consent competence is continuous in the committee's proposal for a new law on coercion, it is natural that we await a decision on further follow-up until we see the result of the evaluation that we are about to launch now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e347	What worries me about that answer is that then the years can go by. Now we felt that the Stoltenberg government did not take responsibility when there was a NOU that clearly said that there is too much forced use in Norway. So this was done in 2017. And although we also recognise in this case that there are very demanding issues and boundaries, there is a real need to raise the importance of a common framework or law for the use of coercive measures throughout health and care services. Will the response to the Council of State mean that you can see this whole period of expansion going before the government takes up the work of the Forces Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e358	I'd say that's foreshadowing the events. But I'm also a little bit questioning about what is the Right's position on evaluating the change in the law in 2017. I have participated in debates with the representative Troeen before, where she has shown that it is a legislative change that has been evaluated. We want to make it a broader review, where we also hear police and prosecution authorities and their experience with the law, as well as central voices from the professional community and relatives and users. The consequences of this are that it will be natural, reasonable and correct to see the work of the Forced Restriction Commission's recommendations in connection with it, and we intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e363	Now the representatives are usually asking questions, but I'm going to answer the Council's questions. We believe that the amendment of the law in 2017 was very important. We believe that we could not continue to see that we use coercion against people with consent skills. But we recognise the challenges. We recognise the demanding situation of professionals in carrying out these investigations, and we are concerned that the Hurdal platform states that the law should be evaluated. But we must not look blindly at the law and believe that more coercion is the solution. It is important to see patients in this as well, and that is precisely why we are impatient after a law that governs forced through the entire healthcare system and look at the common.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e368	I very much agree with the representative Troen that we should not see ourselves blind in compulsion. In fact, the use of coercion has increased following this legislative change. The use of coercion is a necessary tool handler and the service must be in the toolbox. We are very concerned that we ensure competence in services, that through such an evaluation we learn how the law is practised and perceived by those who administer it in the service. And we're very concerned that we might have to talk more about the proper use of coercion than much and little, because that might not give you the right image of the service. It is a concern that coercion is increasing. We believe that it is very important to focus on improving the level of competence in the service, so that practitioners and law-enforcers are able to do so in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e377	I record that in the letter of reply to the Committee of the Governmental Council, it says: ‘but also contribute to increased capacity in specialist health care and prevent the dismantling of bed places’. [[...]] I do not feel that this is what the government has said. I have seen that you want to increase your capacity for 24 hours. That is at least the starting point of the Progress Party, because we believe that only to prevent a reduction when the number of daily places is almost half-way since the 1990s is far too little ambitious with the major challenges we know that many have. With reference to the previous replica wrench with the right about coercion and how much force you need, it is actually about having a good offer, and then you need more daily places. There has been a desire in psychiatry to use more day care, but we see that the need for 24 hours is very great – there are screaming out there. Then I hope that the Council of State is not satisfied with preventing further degradation, but that you actually have to increase that's what I want to challenge the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e387	We see very clearly in the Hurdal platform that the developments that have taken place in the last 20 years have been partly well justified on a professional basis. There are many who benefit more from day care, outpatient treatment and follow-up in and around the place where you live. But we believe that development has gone too far, and that is why we say that on this government's guard the construction of beds ends. Then we're going to have a stepping-up plan for the entire mental health field, which is also going to deal with those who need long-term daily treatment. We'll get back to that in the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e394	I want to be very direct and very concrete towards the Council of State. I had a phone conversation yesterday with a dad who's been fighting for two years for his son, who has big, big mental challenges, and who's at risk to himself and them around him. He feels that it is almost impossible to force the son – and that also says psychiatrists at the Hospital Telemark, that it is now difficult to enter. So these are people who are at risk both to themselves and to others. He is frustrated when he sees what the majority in this case is going to do today, that you don't now care – and that's why the loose proposal comes – to take into account that you actually have to open up that you can have more coercion. Because it's actually about saving the person who's mentally ill, and it's also about the people around. Then I want to challenge the Council of State: When are you going to make the changes? I experienced that when the Council of State was in opposition, she was very clear that the legislation from 2017 should be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e399	Both parties that are now in government have been committed to evaluating the amendment of the law that came in 2017. It was a unanimous decision in Stortinget, where the Workers' Party and the Centre proposed a follow-up evaluation at the time. Now let's start that work. It was a point in the Hurdal platform that was written long before these tragic single events in Kongsberg and in Bislett, and the background to our concern was precisely this kind of story that the representative has brought with him today, doubting relatives with a real concern that their closest ones will get the health care they need and should be able to benefit from. So we're going to start this work. It's already going on. I would like to come back to Stortinget when we have a plan ready for this evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e404	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e412	This is a very difficult debate, because it's about more perspectives, and it's about more angles of incidence. I think it's very important to care for those people who have mental challenges, and you don't want to stigmatise or that kind of thing, but it's also about us having to take on board that there are some other perspectives we also need to have. It's about the people who live in the neighborhoods, the people who live with the person who is mentally ill, and who are afraid and afraid of both life and health, both for those who are around, and not least for the person who is mentally ill, because that person is not admitted and gets the help and health care you need. As I said – and challenged the Council of State: The father who contacted him two days ago and was incredibly tired when he heard that the majority of the Stortinget would not be involved in this, has fought for two years, along with his son, but has thus experienced that you will not get the help the son needs. It's about consent skills, because in one moment you might be willing to get help, but in the next one you may not be, and then someone else has to take care of it. It's a neighborhood that has been living with challenges around it for 30 years, because there are some people who are in and out, falling between the chairs, between the health services and the justice system and prison. These are people who have not done anything wrong, and therefore the judiciary cannot do anything. They're sick, but they're not so sick that the health service can do that job and make sure they put them in, so they get the help they need. As the desperate father says, I don't understand why you can't do this, because it's about me not wanting my kid to risk suicide, or that he's going to hurt others. All these are things that have consequences and that will have great consequences for the life of the person involved. It's about human rights. That's what I'm concerned about. Yes, we are very concerned about human rights, but we must not forget that there are also human rights for others, those on the side, who experience terrorism, uncertainty, insecurity for their children, etc., because they live with someone you're unsure of what to do. There is some background for us to have raised this debate. Unfortunately, we had some events last year, but we have these cases bumped and kept going. I often experience it, it's not just this dad. I've met many people who are in a desperate situation, because they see that they don't get the help they need. Psychiatrists say they don't have the opportunity to do anything, because if a person doesn't want to, you don't get to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e425	It's absolutely right that there are a lot of tough stories that are demanding. That's why it's so important that you get to the escalation that this government actually alerts. This is demanding, not least for those patients who are entitled and need proper help. But I also want to help nuance a little, because the picture that Bård Hoksrud is trying to draw is not correct. The councils have in an excellent way just explained what has been done by the work of this government. You may or may not, but you have to assume that that work is already in progress. Asking for an evaluation of proposals, bringing back changes in the law or assessing changes in the law – that’s what’s going on, so I don’t fully understand that criticism. So to shades of coercion. Force is a lot of different things, and it's about using proper force. Force is a tool in the toolbox. It's not something you use because you think it's an easy solution. There is no easy solution for a therapist to impose, but sometimes it is necessary for the patient and the environment. Forces may be imposition – coercion – there may also be other things. It could be out of 24 hours, it could be observation. It's about securing knowledge about the use of coercion and using it properly, and it's about having enough people in the healthcare system, and it hasn't been done enough. It is a bit fascinating that the representative from the Right, Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen, was not very pleased to have been criticized from the pulpit. I can just say that I didn't mention the Right once, but obviously met the criticism. What has happened in the last eight years has not been good enough, and if you don't want to listen to the Labour Party, at least you have to listen to the National Audit Office. It's the Riksrevision that's been throwing the verdict over the last eight years with Höie and Solberg, because you haven't done enough. As far as the golden rule is concerned, there is a reason why it was called political bluff by the Psychologists' Association, because not one of the eight years was fulfilled, when one had to focus more on mental health than on the somatic. It's simply the legacy of Solberg. But now there are new policy solutions, new priorities. We have a lot of things to deal with, and I'm absolutely sure this government is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e438	It is good to record that the representative from one of the government parties is absolutely sure that the government will deliver. We're waiting in suspense. What is clear, at least, is that you can experience this debate in many ways. It is likely that it is easy to perceive that this debate is almost alone about the rights of individuals who are subject to compulsory mental health protection, and – in those cases where coercion is required – problematisation of the use of coercive drugs. Over time, we have made changes to Norwegian legislation that have limited the possibility of using one of the most basic functions that our society, as the state, should be able to deliver to its citizens. It's about social protection, it's about creating security, it's about creating security in your community, making sure your kids are safe when they play in the neighborhood. We can no longer guarantee that security for everyone, because you've been hiding behind a lot of great formulations in conventions and what you'd like to call human rights. You are so concerned about the rights of the individual and that you should not be forced to use them, that you put ordinary, law-abiding citizens at risk and insecurity. That is the reality. And if we're going to discuss human rights, then the most basic human right -- which is our task -- is to create that security and security in the neighborhoods out there and for people the most. That's right, as others have pointed out: we've had some ghastly examples lately that people who shouldn't have gone loose have done it. They have committed violence, created dangerous situations, and human lives have been lost. These changes have taken place over time, and when one does not even want to go into the cautious proposals put on the table before this debate, the Progress Party clearly chooses to say with our concrete proposal, as we present in the Stortinget today, that we need to set limits. We have to roll back. Most importantly, security and security are for the most part for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e449	I agree with the speakers who say that these are difficult things. But when we discuss this, I also think you should have with you what coercion is really. It's about belt laying, it's about forcing people against their will, it's about keeping them in institutions against their will, and in some cases it's necessary. But we can't end up there using coercion against people where it might not be necessary, for safety's sake. Then we're going down a road that I really don't think we want to go. Today, if you pose a danger to yourself or to others, you can be coerced. That is why I am somewhat uncertain as to what the Progress Party really wants with the proposal, which we do not already have room for today. Maybe it's necessary that health professionals and others become aware of what you actually have room to do today, because that room is there. So I'm a little uncertain about what the proposal involves, without us compromising with the rights you and I don't have to be coerced when it's really not necessary, even if we don't want to coercive medics and keep people locked up against their will for the rest of their lives. They're going to go back to society at some point, and then there's other things we have to do than just force and think that it's going to solve everything. So to Cecilie Myrseth, who was in the middle of why the criticism happened and not: We know who was in government for eight years – it's not the Senter party you talked to. I think that's also why the Treen wanted to answer. But the golden rule was introduced because we wanted to have a greater growth in mental health than in somatics. Now it is removed, but it led to a greater focus on mental health – we reached it on drugs, although we did not reach it on mental health – and waiting times went down by nine days for children and ten days for adults from 2013 to 2020. So when we talk about inheritance, it was shorter waiting times – and it was under a pandemic – with the previous government than it was when we took over after it before that. It's nice and nice if you want to bet on mental health, but we hope it'll be something more than just nice words from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e460	This isn't about coercing people for security reasons, but it's actually about making sure that people who are a danger to themselves and others shouldn't be out in society. So they haven't done anything wrong yet, but everyone who lives around, everyone who lives in the neighborhood, feels and fears that they're actually going to do it. That is what happened in 2017, with the Minister of Health of the Right, who was very concerned about reducing the use of force, and that consent came, and it is very easy to gain consent. I think it should be taken over when the psychiatrists say clearly and clearly that after the change came in 2017, it has become much more difficult. I think that the representative Bruflot and others should take a walk and talk to those who have lived with this for 30 years, who have had new people coming in and out, and who start fooling when they hear such debates that we now have. I am concerned that we should respect the human rights of those who are ill, but we also have a responsibility for the human rights of all those who live in insecurity and insecurity and who are afraid that it will have disastrous consequences. That's what this is about. We must not compromise with the rights of the individual, said the representative, Bruflot. No, I entirely agree with that, but I believe that there is an important principle that Mr Wold had in mind that my freedom ends where your freedom begins. When someone can't or won't fit in after that, it actually has to have consequences. And it's about helping. It's not about wanting this just because you have to put it away, but it's about helping. Because it is that part of those who are very seriously mentally ill cannot take responsibility, what is right for the individual. We constantly experience that blue light cars are coming and picking up people who are being driven to an emergency room – and they are going home again, because you cannot keep the patient back with coercion. It's a challenge. I think it's good to focus on mental illness. You don't have to stigmatize, because luckily they're all, most of them like everyone else. We can experience mental challenges, it can happen to everyone, but it's actually also about being able to balance this. So it's a little special that the Center Party, which is part of this government, promoted a proposal in 2020 where you were concerned about this particular issue. I note that they are sitting quietly in the debate today. And in the case of both that father and all the others who make contact [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e475	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e480	I can inform the representative Hoksrud that my mother is working in the field of mental health protection. She has worked with both those who are under compulsion, and those who are not under compulsion. So I can reassure the Progress Party that politicians from the Right are also talking to people, including in this area – then we have settled it. If you are a danger to yourself and others, you can be coerced. Since the change came in 2017, the number of people in need of mental health protection has increased. So it's not like this change makes it impossible to impose any coercion when they're at risk to themselves and to others. Then I fully agree that you have to look at those who fall between two chairs in terms of health and justice. But the proposal for the Progress Party I cannot see that neither does it nor is it a change, something other than what it is today. Last year, if I am not completely wrong, the Health Committee generally agreed that the use of coercion would go down. In other words, a lot has changed in one year. I agree that we should look at things that happen in society and change our policies afterwards, but we should be careful to change the rights of a large patient group in which the most, most of them are not dangerous, because of single events that have had tragic outcomes. At least I think you should be careful with that. Of course, one should consider whether things work or not, as they are today, but the possibility of, for example, To be on leave I think people will still have to have later as well, if we make changes to this law. We can't be sure of everything. That's not possible. Nor should we go around and be afraid of mentally ill people. Most of them aren't dangerous. If they are dangerous, they may be imposed. I would also like to remind the Party of Advancement that they were in government when that change came. And finally, I just want to repeat: if you're in danger of yourself or others, you can still be forced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e493	I record that the representative Bruflot claimed that if you are a danger to yourself and others, you can be coerced. Yes, it's true in some cases, but the problem is, and has proved over time, that the threshold has become too high. How do I justify that? Well, it's just to point out the events we've seen, the actual events out there, people who feel terrorized in their own neighborhood, people who feel compelled to move because they're afraid of the security and security of their own children-- killing, violent incidents. Not least the police themselves have pointed out this issue. I record that the Right does not listen to the police, but obviously is more concerned about listening to the health authorities. There may be the problem, because my personal experience is that health bureaucrats are some of the biggest opponents of coercion in this field. The argument you're facing is, we can't treat people who don't have a chance to recover. That's what you meet when you talk to parts of the health bureaucracies, who simply claim not to be a safe house for dangerous people. This disagreement between justice interests on the one hand and health interests on the other is perhaps one of the reasons why we've ended up where we are. It's nice to refer to personal anecdotes. I can refer to personal anecdotes themselves, and to the experiences of people I know working in the health care community, who may be different. But the overall picture and the reality of our proposal is that experience shows that we are not where we should be. The threshold has become too high. Then, as legislator, we must seize. Then we have to make the changes that are necessary to combine — yes, of course we have to take care of the individual mentally ill, but one of the most important tasks we have is, in spite of all the social protection, taking care of the safety and security of the individual, creating safe neighbourhoods and ensuring that people in everyday life do not feel insecure because they have mentally ill around them who can be able to exercise violence and other horrible things.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e502	The representative Burd Hoksrud has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e507	The representative, Bruflot, said that there is no problem, you can force it. Then I'm going to take an example from the real world: struggle for many years, the municipality is worried, the police are worried, the health services are worried, no one gets done anything with the person. It ends with the need to use the summer with a guard company to ensure the safety and security of both those who live there and the neighbours. And then you say you can coerce! Yes, at least I feel that the threshold for forced insertion is quite fierce. So this is what you live with, people who threaten, people who run around. It looks like -- yeah, I don't think I should say this once, President -- but it would have been an experience for more representatives. This is the everyday life that many people experience out there and are concerned about, and that is why they want to be more clear and have more opportunity to safeguard social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e514	I have followed the debate today with interest. It's pretty clear where the dividing lines are, with the Progress Party, which wants a much stricter law, with the Right, which is pleased with the law, and with us, who wants to look at the law. What is alarming in this debate is some of the representatives' scepticism against professionals, against professional advice, against professional feedback, and what comes from those who work with and know mental health. I want to remind them here in the hall that mental health as a subject is quite new. Not many years have passed since patients – or humans, fellow humans – became involved. They offered institutions their whole lives, that was the only thing they knew. We don't want to go back to that. One has reached a long way in mental health, but what we need is an evaluation of the law on mental health protection, because the subject is changing all the way. As I have understood them as sitting here in the hall today, there is a consensus that it must be evaluated. I'm glad it has to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e524	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e543	In 2020, the Regeringen Solberg received two reports drawing up future district policies: NOW 2020:15, ‘It’s about Norway’, the rent of Victor Norman, and NOU 2020:12, ‘The importance of industry for living and sustainable communities’, the rent of Svein R. Brandtzæg. Both reports highlight the commitment to reforms in the higher education system and increase access to skills in District Norway as a decision for a successful district policy. Education is the single factor that over many decades has had the strongest centralising effect on moving patterns in Norway. At the same time, we know that the faith for more education and skills throughout life will only grow in the years to come, not least in connection with the new green district industry that is about to emerge. Providing better for more flexible and decentralised higher education – adapting the needs of people, municipalities and local businesses – must therefore be the answer, as both the Brandtzäg and Norman selections state. And the possibilities of it have never been better than today, because of the digitization of society at a fast pace, not least in the last two years. What is then both interesting and alarming is that, until today, decentralised education has had a vague place in the higher education system. There is no explicit funding of such facilities within the funding system for universities and higher education institutions and no clearly defined mandate for institutions to contribute to the necessary access to education and competence in district regions without permanent campuses. There are different forms of study centres around the country, but they have unclear status in the system and varying and failing funding. I think that time is overdue to clean this up and put in place a clear structure and framework devoted to the organisation, financing and operation of the decentralised higher education structure. The Solberg Government took important steps in the right direction through the ‘Strategies for decentralised and flexible education at specialised schools, colleges and universities’, presented in June 2021. I also notice that the Hurdal platform says: ‘The Government will submit a notification to the EEAS on district policy, where recommendations made by the Norman and Brandtzeg committees are followed up.’ All this is good, but it's urgent. Now we have come to the point that all the apparents are some that the time has come to roll out a clearer structure and framework for flexible and decentralised higher education provision in districts without fixed campuses. It only applies to get the famous finger out and get started. One of the initiatives I think is worth drawing out is Studyhub Nordfjord, which is a model developed by the business community in Nordfjord in close interaction with research and higher education institutions, regional development actors, county councils and the social partners in the West. In short, the model is that Studyhub Nordfjord should be the provider that facilitates the organisation and structure of decentralised education in the region of Nordfjord, and interacts with the public, with educational institutions, business and future decentralised students. The study hub Nordfjord shall not itself build and operate educational provision, but shall have an overview of available and relevant decentralised supply in the national market, and be an actor with dialogue and cooperation with higher education institutions and course actors and competent actors. The idea is also that Studyhub Nordfjord should have the necessary infrastructure and facilities for students in decentralised education, facilitate exams and be the collection site that creates a student environment for those studying decentralised in the region, regardless of the higher education institution the student is connected to, and the subject they take. Such a model as part of it might be called the public basic funding of higher education in Norway, and as a possible national model. The gain for higher education institutions and universities will include: he can mobilise many more than others to take higher education and become students at those institutions. At the same time, business and local authorities in each district will be in the driving position to guide higher education according to local needs. I do not say that the model Studyhub Nordfjord has presented is the only way to heaven. My point is very simple: it's urgent. Now there is the roll-out of concrete, structured models for more decentralised, higher education as a liability. I look forward to righting the Council of State's response, and to good cross-political cooperation to lift District Norway's competence and higher education in the coming years. It's a crucial part of building the new, green, and growth-intensive Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e578	Let me first say that I am pleased that the representative Bjørlo addresses the issue of increased access to flexible and decentralised education across the country. It gives me an opportunity to tell you about the government's big plans in such an important area. We're going through major shifts in the coming years. This requires that we open up our education systems to an even greater extent than before, so that more people can meet the ever-changing and I will add strengthened skills needs in almost every part of Norwegian society. This is why we need to ensure that people have access to both flexible and decentralised, high-quality courses of education, adapted to both work and individuals. We have to get to more. This applies both in the public and private sectors and in society as a whole. We've spent 250 million on this year's budget. kr for flexible and decentralised education. This is an increase of 100 million. kr in relation to what the previous government presented. This initiative is the starting point for our announced reform of decentralised and flexible education. In 2021, vocational schools, colleges and universities offered educational services at nearly 300 locations. So education is already fairly fine masked throughout the country. I still think that this is not enough, and I want us to facilitate even more offers, so that we can reach even more people, in all parts of the country. Study centres will be an important player in achieving this objective. This government will therefore contribute to the provision of funding to the study centres to enable them to work more long-term and targeted in line with local needs and initiatives. I've had the pleasure of visiting several study centers. Among other things, I have a good insight into the work of Studyhub Nordfjord, to which the representative Bjørlo refers. I have also met Tynset University Centre and Lister Competence. The study centres play an important role in mobilising participants and reaching out and facilitating training for people in the districts who need work in the region. The study centres are experts in exploiting and strengthening local involvement, and I will build on this. It is the local forces who know what the regions and the different localities need. The aim is to gradually develop a network of study centres throughout the country in places that do not currently have a place of study for post-secondary, higher education or university education. I intend to establish an application-based scheme for the study centres that can be launched during the spring. The aim is to provide more predictable funding for the important work they do and, of course, to increase capacity. Predictability of work will be crucial for success, together with local involvement and good, committed cooperation between educational institutions and study centres. If we are to succeed in strengthening educational provision throughout the country and help to facilitate attractive local services, we also need to stimulate the provision of flexible and decentralised education services by specialised schools, colleges and universities. I take, among other things: with a view to allowing the Directorate for Higher Education and Skills, HKD, to continue an application-based system for this very purpose. Vocational schools are already playing an important role in regional development of skills, and this will also include more emphasis on decentralised education. Another important measure is to review the funding system for higher education and universities. We have seen over time that the sector under the Solberg government has become increasingly centralised. This is devastating for the sector at large. The government has therefore given a slightly adjusted mandate to the selection of funding for this sector to provide training in the districts. The University and Higher Education Act clearly states that institutions should contribute to lifelong learning and provide continuing training in cooperation with relevant actors, inter alia. at regional and local level. In other words, this is a central part of the institutions' social work. I am sure that what we are now doing, among other things. with study centres, flexible and decentralised education programmes, financial systems and the management system for higher education and universities, will help more people in all parts of the country to take up education on the basis of those needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e603	I thank you for your answer. In many ways, I and the Left have had the benefit of expressing that – to say diplomatically – we are not always in agreement with the new government's priorities in district policy, which have often been marked by an infallible belief in reversal. Then, in the name of justice, I will also use this opportunity to say that I am very satisfied with the answer given by the Council of State here, and I understand that he is now expressing that we share the same analysis of what needs to be done, and that the Council of State has quite clear thoughts about doing concrete action in the future in order to get firmer structures in this area. State councils note that the higher education supply is already quite a fine mask, with 300 locations. That's right, and it's not sure that the main goal is to increase it from 300 to 400, 500 or 600, but the point is to get it into more rigid structures. It does not mean fixed structures in such a way that one has fixed, large campuses everywhere that offer the same educations year after year, because there will be no need or student capacity enough, but to have fixed hubs or centres that can satisfy it at any time running the need for competence building in different districts. We know that we are in the municipalities, especially linked to the health sector, where there will be an enormous need for education for years to come. We talk a lot about getting more young people to take a health profession, but it's as important to give adults who are established in a place, an adequate supply of skills and to build up their skills throughout their lives. At the same time, we know that in the district industry, over the next few years, a difficult transition to a business structure, how to work and what skills are needed in existing industries, how to adapt to climate change, and how to digitize. We must always be at ease to give the education to people who are at work, not least so that they live in a big city and assess whether they are going to move into the districts, one can be sure that one does not deny the possibility of building skills and getting education later in life. These visions we're dividing. I think it's wise grip that's being sketched here. When the Council of State says that one should roll out some arrangements during the spring, while at the same time changing some of the governance signals to universities and higher education institutions, what time perspective does he see before we can then have a system in place where we can offer both municipalities and businesses that are structured throughout the country, for example. one... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e614	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e619	I do not believe the undersigned and the representative Bjørlo sees this very differently – neither on the challenge picture nor on the need. But it might have to be allowed to add that while the Left has been talking about it, we have some plans to actually implement what might then be a common goal. The underlying main driver of the need, I think, is two-part. One is the underlying development of the Norwegian demography, where we see smaller children's coal and an increasing proportion of older people. In addition, non-resident labour supply may appear to be slightly lower in the years ahead than it has been in the past. At the same time, the enormous unsolved tasks are both in the public and private sectors. I would assume that most people in this room travel around, whether visiting a municipality or a private enterprise, feel that there is a lack of competent relevant labour that is often dealt with as a problem. This means that, as a society, we need to make even better use of our population than we already do, and then access to higher education, higher vocational education and continuing education is central to achieving those objectives. It's going to be as important in the city as in the built, but in large parts of District Norway you still lack a good structure around this, where colleges and universities are not already in place. I want to draw up a couple of criteria that I think are absolutely essential for success. It is that you can develop these study centres in close cooperation with local forces that will do something. It has to be a local commitment, it has to be a local ownership. I think the municipalities are crucial. I also believe that local business and county are key players in achieving this, where the state should contribute with competence and basic funding. It's the thinking behind the scheme that we now want to roll out related to the study center, which we want more of, and where we want more people to offer a wider range of services. Then it is linked to how the higher education and university sectors are linked and funded, because we also need them to provide even more flexible education services. As of now, they do not have anything extra left to do, and there are perhaps the slightly larger structural challenges in order to make a serious success of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e630	I am very pleased that the representative Bjørlo is raising this interpellation. For the Workers' Party-Center Party government, this is a commitment to solving the real competence challenges we face in the districts. The Hurdal platform states that we will launch a reform for decentralised education across the country, including the following: by using the local training centres, and, as the minister says, not least by having more training centres throughout the country. This is already largely organised across the whole country, in different ways, that many have been involved here, among others. through Inviro in North fjord, the College Centre in Kongsvinger and the Study and Higher Education Centre in Tynset. I also need to mention the career center in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, which fights with beaks and claws to establish the necessary education at its home. There are also many, many more, that are organized in different ways. These are training provision that the districts need. They are necessary in order to have proper and good competence and to provide education to those who do not have the opportunity to enter established campers — because that is a reality. That so many study centres have grown in recent years is a sign that there is a need, a great need, and it is the municipalities, it is the business community, it is the county councils that have shown that we need more established structures and sustainable funding. The system around this has been more random and very application-based. In meetings with different study centres, that's exactly what we're told about. It's going to be ad hoc, and it's an eternal struggle to get access to the places that local communities actually need. There's a fatigue out there because of the fight that's been there. Because it is not that if you have managed to get a nurse training offer in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, it is a lasting solution. It is not certain that it should be a permanent solution, that is not what I am saying, but it should not be that you have to rig a new project for every time the need arises. It's the permanent solutions this government wants to put in place. Through a basic funding for the study centres, we are one step on the way. This basic funding will enable the structures needed to work towards the established higher education institutions and universities to be put in place. The established universities and universities shall not be afraid that the offers they have on their campuses will be threatened. It is precisely about looking at the funding system also up against them to make it possible and make it attractive to offer the decentralised education that is actually needed out there and that may differ at different times. I am very, very happy that our council and the government are delivering on the long-term solutions and are fighting on for them to really get in place. Success will help to create smaller differences, smaller geographical differences, including in terms of level of competence. Competence policies are also district policies, not just to create jobs, but to address the real challenges we face in the districts. The culture of education is also very different across our country. When it comes to being close to being able to continue to train or take a whole new education, the threshold is lowered if the offers are where you actually live. It's not just the young people we're talking about here, we're also talking about those who're going to take continuing education. Then I also have to point to the challenge that some of the study centres have raised to me, that when they make the decentralised offers, it's important that they actually live there and that they work there, which also gets the opportunity to take the education. It's a discussion we have to look at further how the intake system around it is. The Hurdal Platform underlines the need for a reform of decentralised education. In this way, we can have a greater dissemination of knowledge and minor differences in Norway, and we have the opportunity to give the population more competence in a society that changes faster and faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e651	For many years we've been talking about jobs to people in the districts. Now the challenge is a completely different one. Businesses all over the country are struggling to recruit people with the right skills and skills at all levels and across the country. Access to skills is essential for our society in the future, for the development of Norway and for Norwegian competitiveness. The solution is to ensure access to education, regardless of age, place of residence and situation of life. Thank you to the interpellant for making an important debate and for drawing up good examples. If Norway is to succeed in converting and maintaining the rural settlements throughout the diverse, long-range and beautiful country in which everyone in this room is so happy, we need to ensure the availability of high-quality education services for all throughout our lives. If we are able as a society to solve that problem, and only then, we are laying the foundation for change and innovation, new jobs and a functioning Norway into the future. The Solberg government launched the competence reform Learn Your Life in Spring 2020. Lifelong learning aims to ensure that no one goes out to date as a result of a lack of competence. The Communication contains several measures aimed at closing the gap between the needs of the labour market and the competence of workers. In the spring of 2021, the Solberg government presented the completion reform in high school. The reform is a historic extension of the right to complete high school. In order for that right to become a real right for everyone of all ages, we need to think about colleges for adults. Nearly 600 000 adults have not completed secondary education. At the same time, we know that many adults need to fill their skills or to re-train to work longer. Now the Right wants to build a new concept with high school for adults. Adults must be able to start their education when they are ready to do so and take exams when they are ready, regardless of the school's regular summers. The Solberg government put forward a strategy for decentralised and flexible education and spent over 1 billion. kr to develop more flexible offers over the past few years. It's taking the needs of business and society seriously. In comparison, we now see that what the Big Government has spent on funding for decentralised education goes to Nesna, which is neither good district policy nor education policy. In the future, the goal must be that regardless of what skills you have and what you need, the door to the education system must always be open throughout your life. One of our most important tasks is to raise those who are out of work today and give them a chance. Society needs all available labour in the coming years. Real skills assessment is important, and real skills must provide opportunities for further education at different levels. The education system must also be arranged in such a way that the door must be wide open, not just on the slippery side. One must enter and then acquire the initial training if there is any in-flight deficiency in the course of training. Flexibility and accessibility are key words in both education and funding. Society has changed, and the education system must also follow suit. Education is an activity and must be seen independently of construction. Modular physical education needs to be combined with digital solutions to a much greater extent than today. I listened with interest to the plans of the Council of State on study centres, career centres. Adult learning is already located throughout the country today. The representative, Selnes, also made a very good contribution. I like the government's idea of strengthening the study centers, but I think we should remember that building masses and locations are no longer so important in our digital society, and seeing the possibilities of what is already here is perhaps more important than establishing new physical apprenticeships. Where the training is provided, it can no longer be the most important and education must not become a district policy instrument. Educational institutions at all levels are important regional development actors, but this role must never be weighted to such an extent as to compromise quality. If this happens, the power is weakened both as a training institution and as a development actor, and there is poor education policy and poor district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e680	For the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, it is an objective that everyone should have equal opportunities for education, regardless of where they live, and the situation in which they live – both because we need skills in the years to come in both urban and rural areas, because there are equal opportunities throughout the country, and because the whole country is to be developed, not liquidated, with this government. Then we have to invest more in flexible and decentralised education provision in the next few years than the previous government ever did. That is why I am pleased that one of the major designated areas of the Hurdal platform in the field of knowledge is precisely this, and that our Council of State is clear on what ambitions we have. The government will launch a reform for decentralised education across the country. We started that work right after the government change, and we've now increased the pot to decentralized education by 100 million. kr for the current budget. Involvement in the local study centres, which the interpellant also develops, is important in this work. They can take a special responsibility for education where people live, based on the needs for skills that businesses have locally. It will be important to ensure predictability, escalation, capacity and funding of those study centres, and to have a system at its disposal to ensure that this remains over time. We're already in the process here. However, even if more physical education is to be provided locally, some will still participate in both collection-based and online. Then it's important that we make it possible for those who also do it to experience a community. Here is the work of e.g. Krux Innovation Center at Oppdal is a good example. They are, to a large extent, a research and innovation centre, but also facilitates a local office community for those who have their home office in the region. It is also important that we strengthen the decentralised offer we have, but that we dare to think again about the work we are doing. Therefore, the government will also review centralising quality and accreditation requirements in higher education, and we need to strengthen higher vocational education, which can also take part in the need we have. For us, it will also be particularly important to look at professional training, because we know that there will be a need for more teachers, nurses, doctors and similar professions in the years to come, especially in the districts. If they are trained locally, they will also be more likely to remain in the region afterwards. This is precisely why education policy is also district policy, and it was an important central party victory that we now had to maintain primary school and kindergarten teacher training at Nesna. The centre party and the Workers' Party have great ambitions in the field. We're going to do what we can to educate the skills that are needed, where they are needed. We're going to give access to education to everyone where they live, because it's about district policy, it's about equipping us for the future, and it's about developing all of Norway. I'm looking forward to that work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e693	Decentralized education is important. It's important because it gives you the opportunity to take education where you live, maybe in combination with work and family. It is important because employment requires some sort of adaptation and conversion, has different needs, and not least because districts need professionals. I have myself taken a decentralised post-graduate course to remain in the job I was already in, because I changed my title and therefore needed a refill as a teacher. I did that with two small children and a full job next door. A little tough, I'll honestly admit that, but it made it possible for me to continue in a job I was very happy with. But the offer I made, assembly-based, would not be good if it hadn't been linked up to an already good college, Queen Maud's Memory in my case. It is therefore important that this be linked, that the whole UH sector be seen together, and that we strengthen decentralised services while strengthening universities and colleges. Many in research and higher education had high expectations for the new government. For many years, the sector had undergone so-called annual ABE cuts, while at the same time the structures of the sector were not less bureaucratic and the sector was constantly given new tasks. It was given a land standard that threatened to turn home offices into the new norm in the academy long before we met the pandemic, not to forget many rounds of voluntary coercion mergers, which created great resistance in the sector, and of which we still do not fully understand the long-term consequences. Getting a new price in the sector is therefore long-term. And all the parties that now make up the new majority in the Stortinget had promised a lot on the educational side. We promised – and I have to say we – to stop the cheese mats, restore the Nesna high school and protect other campers in similar situations. Therefore, there is probably also an absolute disappointment in the UH sector when some of these expectations have not been met. For example, the ABE cuts are: continued in the first State budget of the Støre Government. Some also experience that what was seen as a blank victory and that made a jubilation in parts of the sector – and a little tacit frustration in other parts of the sector, it needs to be admitted – namely the restoration of the Nesna High School, went from swallowing to gastric lavage. But how you look at the Nesna story, it's probably a little bit dependent on what starting point you have when you look north. The decentralised study offer needs a professional environment, both for employees and for students, which needs to have physical collections. Many people might say that you don't have to, but we know that it's easier to learn when you meet. We need both to be able to meet face to face, take the discussion, the professional, maybe also the social, and share a lunch together. It makes it easier to learn. As I said, the decentralised offer depends on good trade unions and good teachers. There are many educational actors who can offer continuing education, but for us in Red, it is important that the decentralised education offer must be free and offered by public or non-profit universities and colleges, which do not take advantage of it. Red supports the expansion of the decentralised education sector. It is important both to meet the individual’s needs for further training and, not least, to have access to good professionals in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e713	For the Centre Party and the Labour Party, it is important to have good services and access to good services throughout the country. In order to provide good services throughout the country, we also need skilled professionals throughout the country. This applies to teachers, nurses, doctors, professional trainers, etc. These competent people need education, and then it's important that we have a decentralised educational structure across the country, even in higher education. Therefore, I am pleased that the government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the Hurdal platform is so clear that you want an ambitious and offensive commitment to knowledge policy and to build strong quality professional training courses around the country. Furthermore, I am also very pleased that a reform for decentralised education is now underway across the country. Not least, I am very pleased that the government restored primary school and kindergarten teacher education at Nesna, and that this will be a centre for decentralised education and research. And yes, this is good district policy, unlike another representative who was up here before me, said. The government provides several ways to strengthen decentralised education. Before Christmas, 15 new study places were put in place for medical training at the University of Tromsø. This means that the Helgelands Hospital can now establish education for the medical students in the last two years of the study. You have a similar system in Bodø and Finnmark, and the experience from there is very good. It shows that decentralization works. A recent study showed what has happened to those who have taken the last two years of their medical training in Bodø, and it shows that most of them are still in Bodø and in the district municipalities around Bodø. It also shows that quite a few of them are in the public health service. As we know, we currently have a fixed crisis. Then we need people both in the big cities and also in the districts, and then such a kind of decentralization and decentralised educational structure is also important in the field of medical education. We in the Centre Party and the Workers' Party want growth and development throughout Norway. That's how we make sure that we actually have growth and development in the nation. Everybody's got to go. Then there's got to be districts. Then we just need this policy, which ensures that we get trained professionals around the districts, because that's the way they actually stay in the districts and take care of the good offers out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e724	I would like to thank the representative Bjørlo, who is focusing on one of the most important promises for education across the country, a promise that our new government is now doing well, and that is because the need is great. In fact, in the region I live in, the Agder region, we have been waiting impatiently for several years for more instinctive and more tools for both increased education and competence and a more flexible and decentralised educational structure that gives ordinary people more opportunities. By small means, the study centres throughout the country are able to provide important decentralised local education at both post-secondary and university level, in cooperation with universities, industry and public enterprises. A good example is Lister Competence, as mentioned by the Council of State, which, together with the UiA, is currently in the process of starting kindergarten teacher training throughout the Agder region. This means that students in Bykle in Setesdal and students in Riskør east of Agder who would normally not take education on campus can now take education where they live, where their families live, and where the places of practice and jobs are. That's a good model. Although the study centres are getting a lot today, they could get a lot more if the centres were more, and if they had predictable funding. Today, a lot of resources are being used to access resources, such as: additional resources from the Directorate for Higher Education and Skills, from municipalities and from non-profit institutions serving households. We need clearer national requirements for educational institutions in the area of regional presence. We need a funding system that promotes decentralised structure. We need an increased government funding share that can help compensate for the extra costs of multi-campus institutions. As others have mentioned here, we are very ready for a reform of decentralised education where the study centres have an important role to play. In this way, those with family or employer obligations can receive education or further training where they live, and then important competences in the region may remain in the region. The renowned pedagogue John Dewey said, "To find out what you're capable of and to make sure you get the opportunity to do it is the key to happiness." Decentralized education offers more opportunities for success. It's good to have a government and a government council that is so clearly in favour of a big effort on education across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e741	I am very pleased with the new Minister of Knowledge for Higher Education and the government's future policy for continuing training in the districts. Knowledge and competence may be the key to the development of a society. In Agder we have a varied business life, which is constantly crying out for more competence. People living in municipalities in Agder need new skills. They live there, they're established, they have family and children, they're involved in politics, they're part of the sports team, but they don't have the opportunity to travel away, stay away and study centrally. Then it's good to have a further education that you can take from home. You can go in a few days, you can be a part of the job. In Agder we have, among other things: a lot of power plant industry, and technology has gone a lot further. The fact that Lister Competence in Lwagal, as the minister spoke about, will further develop the skills needed by the power plants in Agder, is important for meeting tomorrow's challenges. It's nice to meet you at the University of Agder. It is as far as pale in the Hurdal Declaration is dry before they turn focus. They haven't done that in eight years. Now they're saying that now we're going to bet on district-friendly further education. They haven't done that in the last few years. Then we will not reduce the focus on the university environment in Norway. That's important, and we're going to complement each other. But I am inexorably happy that now in this room there is a strong change in the posts, from both Bjørlo and Jønes today, and that both the Left and the Right will now be involved in investing heavily in decentralised education. I'm looking forward to the continuation, and I think it's important for us to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e754	I just have to say that it's fun to experience that one has such a convoluted political commitment to one thing, where we see where we want to go, without that means that the debate is absent, because here's a very big pressure for us to find solutions to achieve the goal that we're all a few about. It makes me happy, and it makes me optimistic. For one who works in the Labour and Social Committee, there are many things we tend to boast about from the Workers' Party's history that have been important to the workers' rights and to what track we should go, whether we should go in the track of competence or in the low pay track. But that story cannot be told without emphasising what we received with the help of several parties – with the Loan Box and with the establishment of a decentralised training provision, where it could be possible to gain access to skills from either the village or the city, from the north or the south. Now we're entering a new era. It's important, because there's one thing our business is reporting back, and as the trade unions report back, it's that development is going faster than anything. Where one might have had a small drop in further education or training before, one now will need it more and more often. Then it is important that we be able to offer the qualities, that is, the educational capability, wherever you are – and not just that, but that you can add a scheme that makes handpicks, eat skills available without perhaps always having to take the full package of large educational courses. Sometimes only some key competences are needed. I mean, we're going to be able to point out a good direction. So there are some lessons I think we have with us from this time on with pandemic and Teams meeting at the Teams meeting. It's that yes, it's a good addition to being able to talk digitally, but the talk you have about a coffee machine after an hour or after a meeting is about as important as the education itself, the meeting itself, the workday itself or the educational program itself. Being able to get to both parts, where a cluster is thinking, where a digitized possibility is important, but where one also takes care of the physical need. We have a proud story behind us, but if we're going to be able to succeed on the road into the future, we have to be happy with this. Therefore, I am both happy and optimistic when I belong to the Council of State, and when I hear all the competent representatives here present their visions of the time that comes. I support that whole-heartedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e767	I'll start where the representative Vereide ends. I am also pleased and enthusiastic about the good debate that we have here today. It also makes me very optimistic about what we are going to do in the future. One can discuss much of what the old government did and what the new government does. My assessment of it is that the previous government did an extremely valuable job in anchoring the job that needs to be done now, in a holistic district policy. This was achieved through the comprehensive programming messages that were provided, which analysed the main needs of rural policy and followed it up through a strategy for decentralised and flexible education provided last year. Now we have come to the implementation phase. We've got a new government, and I want, from my very heart now, both to wish all possible happiness for the job that the Council of State is going to do, and to invite a broad cooperation to achieve the common goals we need. I would like to stress that what we are talking about here today, which I took up in my interpellation and the Council of State responded and talked about, is not about Nesna. It's not about these solid, big campuses that are going to offer exactly the same education year after year because it's always been like that. This is about the flexible provision provided by educational institutions elsewhere, but must have a anchoring and a base locally and be constantly evolving according to the needs of local communities and businesses locally. As it was said – I believe it was the representative Selnes from the Labour Party who said it – this is a policy of competence. And competence policy is at least district policy – I think we can all be a few of them about that. It is a central element of district policy, and it also requires a very strong commitment in the regions to raise skills needs, to get rich supplies. There is nothing that can come from outside and be given as an offer, and then sit passive and accept – here the exposure must come from below. Right there there is also a good match now in the region of Nordfjord, and just to show this: «The hunt for superpowers» from the North Fjord Academy, which is now working to put the whole need for competence in the region into a common context and work across teams to get up the need from below, matches the structures we are now going to get in place. I also think it has been exciting in the debate to hear about what is being done elsewhere in the country around this, in the Lister region, in the North Gudbrandsdal, in Tynset and elsewhere. There are a lot of exciting initiatives going on here. So I don't always think we're going to think of a municipality, we should probably think of a little bit bigger regions. We must have an impact on it. But based on the answer the council gave, I think we're on the right track. So I want to thank you so much for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e784	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. Even if you don't agree on everything, at least I see that there's a broad commitment in the hall related to putting in place good and well-functioning offers across the country. There is also broad support for the analysis and the need for this to be something we need to work more on and have greater ambitions for in the future. From this point of view, the debate is reflected in a very proud Norwegian tradition: raising knowledge together, and recognising the need for ever-increasing knowledge development, training and development as a fundamental element in building society and the nation further. We've been doing that ever since the University of Oslo was established in 1811. A few things I would like to comment on anyway. One is that some people are concerned that a district effort should be at the expense of quality. It's a sense of reality I want to warn you a little bit about, simply because knowledge and competence have the amazing feature that they get better by sharing. This is not a zero-sum game. Rather, the larger the share of cookies, and the more training you give. It's been Norwegian history for 300 years, and it's probably going to be Norwegian history for the next 300 years. So to draw up an artificial distinction that a decentralised offer or a fine masked offer outside the country may go at the expense of the quality of the training, I think it is simply no reason. Furthermore, there were two or three representatives within Nesna. The Nesna is not the subject of this debate, but Nesna is a very important effort to have enough capacity in our northernmost part of the country, initially in kindergarten and primary education. We lack capacity on it in North Norway, and it is incredibly important that we succeed there now. I am very pleased that the education is now announced. It is possible to apply to them already in April, and hopefully we can have a mark on the Nesna for the autumn, where many new students are admitted, to great joy both for the country and for the country. I will end by saying yes to those who have invited for broad cooperation and a cross-political commitment to this important matter. I think that will serve it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e797	The interpellation debate is therefore over. As previously announced, case No. 3, and Stortinget then goes on to deal with case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e815	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e822	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work and cooperation in this matter. The background to the case is a proposal from the Christian People's Party where a wish for child benefit and cash support to be excluded from the calculation basis for benefits under the Social Services Act and the Housing Support Act. The majority of the Committee points out that, to the extent that the budgetary conciliation has been successful, where the Stortinget asks the Government to promote a case where social assistance is not part of the calculation basis under the Social Services Act, with the wish to start from 1 September of this year. The second part of the proposal is to keep cash support outside the calculation basis under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act. On the other hand, this is the subject of discussion. The cash support scheme is a system for parents to have the freedom to choose to be at home with their children or to buy nursery facilities. In the Hurdal platform, the government says that the cash support scheme will apply to children from 12 to 18 months of age and that there will be a waiting arrangement for those who do not have kindergarten for those children from 18 to 24 months of age. The majority of the Committee recommends that cash support be retained as part of the calculation basis under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act. For social assistance, there is an individual treatment on a case-by-case basis. All aspects are considered here to provide both the applicant and not least the children with the financial security of a standard of living sufficient for the development of the child. It's also interesting to think about how many children this applies to. the number of parents receiving social assistance and in addition receiving cash support. The share of cash beneficiaries varies throughout the year, but the proportion of those receiving both social and cash support in 2018-2020 is 1,1 to 2,4 pst. On average for the year — it varies considerably from month to month — there are 250–300 children across the country. There are also great variations from state to state. So this is an interesting problem. Another interesting feature of the cash support is that cash support has been paid for 17 p.m. of children without a migrant background and 28 pst. by children with a migrant background. Cash support may also be a barrier to good integration. In terms of overall development, we see that the number of recipients of cash support has decreased by a quarter in the last ten years and was less than 9,000 in 2021. Cash support is not what it once was, but is nevertheless an important mechanism for parental freedom of choice. Back to the proposal to exclude cash support from the calculation basis under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act: We in the Centre Party support the majority of the Committee that will continue to retain the cash support as part of the calculation basis under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act. Individual assessments are made on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e841	When you receive economic social assistance from Nav, it is a temporary financial support to cover all the necessary costs of living and living. For lonely, it's about $6,500 a month. For couples, it's at the base of NOK 11 000. It will cover expenditure for a whole month – for housing, for food, for themselves and a little more for the children. It goes without saying that people who receive economic social assistance from Nav are in an extremely difficult life situation that the few of us in this room can imagine. However, we are chosen to represent people in Norway, including them. I think we're good at reminding ourselves of what economic social assistance is actually for, because that's the safety net in Norway. That's what will take us if nothing else does. It's the foundation of our whole community. In 2020, two thirds of all Norwegian municipalities benefited from social assistance for those who received child welfare. That means that if you had so little money that you needed social assistance, and you had kids in addition, it was punishable. Fortunately, we have received a new government in Norway, a government that prioritises those who need it the most, rather than those who have the most. Therefore, the Workers' Party-Centre-Registration agreed with the SV to form a majority in order not to include the children's rights of those receiving social support in the State budget for 2022. It couldn't get any faster. In my neighborhood on Tøen, children grow up in poverty, every three of them, in fact. The experiences I take with me from that neighborhood, I take with me into the storeroom. One of the most important goals for us in this room must be to work for the children who grow up in Norway, no matter where they grow up or who they are, to have the same opportunities anyway. Making sure that families who are currently receiving social assistance can maintain the universal child-responsiveness we have for absolutely everyone in Norway, so that all children have the same opportunities, is one step we have to take. In the future, we'll have to take a lot more. We have to make sure that people get a fairer and more stable housing market. We have to make sure that people get the opportunity to learn Norwegian and become a part of society, and not least we have to get more families into work. It's going to put all our efforts into caring for this government. If there's one thing we know, it's that the cash support contributes to the opposite. It is a barrier to integration, equality and to the working line. And if that's what we need to fight poverty, it's better integration, better equality and getting more out of work. Where the cash support only applies to a few, the child benefit applies to all of us. We've decided that the community will stand up for everyone in Norway if they have children, and I am happy to vote for that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e858	On the Right Guard, we strengthened the family's finances and took up the treatment of child poverty. One of the tools for doing that is the child's fear, and therefore it was with the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left increased for the first time in over 20 years. For children and young people between 6 and 18 years of age, there was an extra NOK 1000. At the same time, we know that the first years of the child's life span can be particularly demanding and costly. That's why we increased the child's pension for children up to 6 years of age by NOK 8,200. The whole increase was excluded from the calculation of social assistance, and it was a positive contribution especially to families with low incomes. In addition to the historical effort made, the Right considers that the way forward must be a discussion in the annual budgetary processes in which an assessor assesses measures and the most effective measures. It is the total effort, the sum of the measures and their impact, that counts in the fight against child poverty. The most important thing we can do is get more people to work. During our last year in the government, the effort for them increased without work of 1.4 billion. kr. In addition, on the Right Guard, we did a number of other acts that helped families with children and combated child poverty. We made our own strategy against child poverty, and as mentioned, child welfare increased by NOK 8,200 for children under the age of 6. We introduced free core time so that all children, regardless of their finances, got involved in kindergarten. We put in place manning and teaching standards that ensure more safe adults to follow up the children. We lowered the tax for them with the least and suggested raising the parental allowance to NOK 25 000 per child, so that there was more room in the economy of the families with children. We started the leisure card, where children and young people got NOK 2 000 a year to participate in an optional leisure activity, so that everyone could afford to participate. Unfortunately, several of these social bets, such as the leisure card, were reversed by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. But the right doesn't give up. On our guard, we strengthened the family's economy, increased child-responsiveness and took up the habit of child-restraint, and that job we're going to continue with undiminished strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e869	The economic differences in society are increasing, and they are most felt by those who have the least. I myself have worked on Nav and seen desperate parents, who admit that their income does not stretch to, in their eyes, and saw the despair and demise that comes with it. In too many municipalities, those who have had to apply for social assistance and have received it have learned that in practice it means that they lose their child’s privacy. It has been possible for SV to turn in many municipalities by working for local changes to take place. I am very pleased that we have a majority who have gathered to say that in Norway it should no longer be such that in practice child welfare is lost when applying for economic social assistance. It means an incredible amount to them. Having more to live with is absolutely essential to be able to do something about just the increasing economic differences. That's what you have to pay for bread and milk every month, which determines whether you can make it or not, whether you get the ends to meet. That is why I also want to thank the Christian People's Party today for pressured to increase the child's awareness. It is often that we end up in discussions about need testing or universal arrangements when we have debates like this. That's why it's so important that we now have a new majority, who don't have a test of need as a road, but to spread well-being through universal schemes that stand themselves even if incomes vary. Life is unpredictable things, but having enough to have bread and milk on the table is something you have to make sure, that's what's the basis for people's security, that's well-being. That's why it's just as little provocative that people who may not have the greatest need for child welfare get it, like that even those who have a lot are given the opportunity to go to the hospital without getting out with a huge bill. That's how we strengthen the community. That is why I would like to thank the initiative of the proposers, but I am nevertheless pleased that we have actually made the changes requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e882	We live in the richest country in the richest time on earth – a land flowing with milk and honey, where we set new records every year on the stock exchange and in billionaires. Nevertheless, in this country, 116 000 children need to grow up in what the Central Statistical Office calls persistent low incomes or what everyone else in Norway would call poverty. It's a scandal, it's a shame, and it's a serious political mistake that's evolved under changing governments over a long time. I am confident in the belief that the best way to help poor people is to give them money. The easiest and best way to get poor people to have more to walk with is to give them money. To provide them with forms they have to fill in, documentation requirements they have to prove — no, it is not the very best way to ensure that poor families have more to walk with. It's much better to give them money. Having children is one of the biggest impacts on the economy for everyone, whether you have little or a lot of money, and it's an extra big impact on those who have little already. It's this thing that's amazing with the child's back. There are no questions asked, other than that the child is there and is born, of course. The universal nature of child protection has been crucial to its effectiveness in combating poverty. Then it's one problem, and it's that we often talk about child-responsiveness not being tested. In many parts of Norway, however, child care has been reversed. It's been like, no matter how rich you are, you get child-responsive, but if you're very, very poor, you don't get child-responsive. Then it has to be curtailed towards social assistance. That's why it's so joyous, what the government has already done in the budget last fall, saying that you should now keep child welfare out of the calculation of social assistance. Therefore, it is also gratifying that the Christian People's Party, which is going to have a great deal of favor for the fight they fought to increase child welfare in the last period, is now making a proposal to ensure that the municipalities do not get that space of action in the long term, no matter what government governs. I have to remind you that on Thursday last week we had a heated debate on Stortingen's allowances and double holiday money etc. At that time, the bulk of the population was not ready to go in for what is called shortening the compensation of the Storting against previously earned holiday money. Now we have a curtailment at the opposite end of the scale, that people should get their social assistance or their housing support curtailed if they get child welfare. It is a shameful and poor curtailment that is a targeted attack on those with the worst economy. That is why I am pleased that we have now been cleared up, and that is why we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e893	Too many children live in families with persistent low income in Norway today. Figures from the SSB show that children of immigrant parents and lone parents are most strongly represented by children with low-income families. The reason for this is complex and complex, and therefore a comprehensive effort is crucial. The child's rights stood on the ground during the Workers' Party and the last term of government of the Centre. I am therefore very pleased that the Christian People's Party, both in budgetary settlements in the UK and in the government over the last few years, has been able to significantly increase child welfare – for the smallest children up to 6 years of age by NOK 8,200. The background for this is that at this stage there is the lowest income for families with children. For those over 6 years, the amount of child benefit increased by 1 000 kroner. We did this because we know how important it is for children to grow up with a safe financial framework, and because child welfare is important for combating child poverty and increasing differences. In addition, the Christian People's Party was given a positive signal that we would introduce a free-time card of NOK 2000 per year for children between 6 and 18 years of age – an important measure to ensure that no children are allowed to join a leisure activity. This possibility has been said by the government that they will scrape. It's sad – especially for all those who don't get the opportunity to join. Cash support is also an important response to child poverty. The background to the cash support is to provide young children's parents with flexibility and freedom of choice for their children when they are very small. It is those who are best to assess whether the kids should be a little longer at home, or when they are going to start in kindergarten. Nevertheless, the figures from the SSB show that cash support has also had an impact on low-income families. Cash support is not primarily a poverty measure, but it is nevertheless important to ensure that municipalities cannot include cash support in the calculation when measuring benefits under the Social Services Act and the Housing Support Act. I am pleased that SV has been given the impression that child protection is to be kept out of the calculation of social assistance, but unfortunately they do not go far enough. It must also be excluded from the calculation of benefits under the Housing Aid Act. The same applies to cash support. That is why I would like to take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e906	Then the representative hadle Rasmus Bjuland brought up the proposals he presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e911	Children’s families who have little money often face complex challenges in need of a holistic and coordinated service provision. I'm very busy trying to find the most accurate options for better living for families that are difficult to deal with, and ensure the needs of young people so that they are given special care. I feel that all those who have taken the word so far are expressing some of the same ambitions, but we're expressing a very different way of doing it. This government believes that universal welfare services and good income protection schemes contribute to social cohesion, mitigate the consequences of low income, and not least prevent future poverty among young people. The government will, among other things, the cost of childcare and SFO for all families of children, the introduction of a daily school meal and the increase of VAT compensation for volunteers. These are bets that create more space in the private economy. The power systems that have been set up during this winter also show that we have a government that is busy with social justice. I remember that there was no tool in the toolbox when we were faced with power prices that could frame especially those that have at least already. The schemes required this government to create itself, from the bottom of it. I also believe that other measures taken by the municipalities can be more effective for young people than this representative proposal could be. This could be done, for example, by: cover expenditure on sports or other recreational activities. We know that economic social assistance is a need-tested service to ensure a defensive life expectancy. In assessing the right to social assistance and the calculation of the level of benefits, consideration may be given to all types of income, including family allowances. The local policy area of action today provides considerable space for municipalities to treat child-restraint differently when calculating benefits for families with children, but we know that children and young people are still particularly vulnerable, and that it may be necessary to maintain them in a special way. It is a system that is independent of income, and we also see that one third of the municipalities report that they are just keeping child welfare out of the calculation of financial benefits. In the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, the Government stated that it would propose that children's rights be retained outside the scope of the calculation of economic benefits, with effect from 1 September 2022. I look forward to coming back to that as soon as possible. When it comes to cash support, the government through the Hurdal platform has warned that we will take some steps there, including: discontinuing the cash support scheme for young people between 18 and 24 months of age and replacing it with a child support for those who have applied for, but have not been given, nursery facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e924	115 000 children in Norway are growing up in persistent low incomes, or the representative Kristjánsson called poverty. My own county or electoral district, Telemark, is one of the states of Norway that has the highest number of children growing up in poverty. These are our children — our children and young people who may not have the same opportunities as other children and young people, who may not have the same opportunities to go to football training, dance or theater, because the wallet to parents simply does not go to. These are children in families who may not be able to afford to buy winter jackets or shoes when winter comes, because the wallet does not extend. These are children in families who may never have the opportunity to go on vacation, either domestically or abroad, because the wallet of their parents does not go to. What do the children and the young people say about this situation when they're going to try to put words on it? An anonymous boy is quoted on the Norwegian Children's and Family Directorate's websites. It says: ‘When you don’t get to join your friend’s birthday because you can’t afford it, they end up asking if you want to join. The friend will be gone.’ A better description of the situation of children growing up in poverty is to be found for a long time. Doing something about poverty in Norway requires many structural measures: in the workplace, to ensure a safe and secure working life; within the housing market, to ensure that more than one person has access to reasonable places to live; at school and with inclusion However, one measure that is simple and highly targeted is to ensure that all families have access to child protection. For too long, there has been a practice in which all in Norway are given the opportunity to receive child benefit, except for those who need it all, most of all, namely families who somehow receive financial social assistance. That means that child-responsiveness has been curtailed for these families. So we have a system that allows us to steal money from those who need it the most. We in Red are incredibly happy that something is finally being done about this injustice. I myself have been elected to Kragerø Municipal Council and have made sure that all families with children have access to social assistance. The same has been true of the people of the Red Peoples around Norway for many, many years. We've encountered resistance, we've been deformed – especially on the right-hand side – but now it happens. That is why there is a great victory in the fight against the increasing differences and in the fight to ensure that all children and young people, no matter what background they may have, have better opportunities. Christian People's Party's proposal No. 1 is also something Red supports as an important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e955	Before I come to my post, I would like to say, for the record, that there has been an error in the comment in the configuration document. This applies to the last paragraph on page 2 and the first paragraph on page 3. We're not supposed to be in there. I hope that it will be included in the protocol and corrected. When you have grown up in quite lucky conditions and know what value it has to be in a community, have safety in childhood, have the possibility to be on the SFO, have food in a food package, participate in a sports event, and over the line avoid thinking about the family economy as a five-, six- and seven-year-old, then a lucky one. For the signatures, similar to probably a lot of others, there's a contrast when you see your own friends remaining outside the SFO, you have to be left behind when you travel on football, or when you think about the possibility of going on school trips and excursions, you have a friend thinking about how hard it is for Mom and Dad to pay their bills. We know that for those who have the least, and for all the 116 000 children who live in poverty, poor finances are a basis for unrest, and in many cases there will be an end to strife and insecurity. Child protection has always been meant to be a universal system that should affect everyone, but what we see is that it's just those who have thonged her the most, those who have the least, who haven't got her. Something like that we would never have accepted if there were price discounts on kindergarten for anyone except those who had the least, or in other parts of society. We can't have it like that, and so I'm incredibly happy that the government party, the Labour Party and the Center Party, together with SV and with several people, are cleaning this up once and for all. I also have to add the principle of cash support, and I think there are several representatives who have drawn it up in an exceptional way: it is an arrangement that contributes to creating differences. That's why we say no to her. Our work goes on in many areas. It takes place in the labour market, it takes place in education, and it also takes place in social aberrations. There's our government bottom-solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e970	The errors in the notes mentioned are listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e975	I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party for travelling the theme. The centre party is a hot defender of the universal nature of child protection, and we also have clear in our big-scale programme that child welfare should be kept out of the calculation of social assistance. We don't have poor children in Norway, but we have poor parents. What we're doing now is correcting an error. When we do that, it's a result of the negotiations between the SV and the government parties. That's what led to it being corrected. Neither the previous government nor the current government gave priority to rectifying this. Right shall be correct in presenting what is happening. We are also very pleased that child welfare is not now to be included in the calculation of social assistance and that it will be corrected from 1 September this year. We on the part of the government parties are behind the cash support scheme. It is described in the Hurdal platform. When we know about the cash support and how it has now been revised, we do not see that one should treat it in the same way as the child's pension. So, we're not going to keep the cash support out of the calculation of social aid – this is because it's a choice that the individual has, whether a person wants to have kindergarten or cash support. This applies to very few people. In the period 2018-2020 it was 1,1 to 2,4 pst. of those who received cash support who also received financial social assistance. The last point that I would like to comment on is – which is no longer from a majority, because the Workers' Party was involved in an incursion – which says that a ‘is busy working to introduce a state committed norm of economic social assistance that ensures that everyone can live at an acceptable level of consumption in line with the reference budget’. As indicated in the setting, the centre lot disagrees with such standardisation. It is up to local authorities to assess different conditions in the country, such as housing costs. Therefore, it is not right to have a state norm at that point, and it is clear from our remark in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e988	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1005	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1014	Let me start by thanking the Committee for being able to deal with this matter of power support to non-governmental organisations in a very short time. It shows that we have been politically engaged in making an important handshake to volunteer as quickly as possible, when the Storting first got a case on this. In the case, the government proposes to grant 250 million. kr to a temporary grant scheme as a result of exceptional electricity prices. Voluntary organisations have not been covered by the schemes submitted by the government in the past. The total need for allocation is based on estimates of electricity consumption, average electricity prices for December 2021, forward prices for the period January to March 2022 and a compensation rate of approximately the same level as the electricity support scheme for households. It is proposed that the grant be allocated to the municipalities, which then distributes to teams and associations in their municipality. Both the Norwegian Sports Association and the Freewill Norway have been clear in their input during treatment. They have summarised the following: that all sports-side installations, regardless of their ownership and use of the premises, may seek compensation, that all levels of organisation must be included in the scheme, that no maximum limit on the number of kilowatt-hours can be applied for compensation, that the scheme must be extended to include increased costs for the use of all types of energy sources, and that the threshold for compensation should be reduced to 50 kWh. The Committee has also noted the importance of the public availability of a list of applicants for aid, the beneficiaries of aid and the level of individual support. Most recordings have been made by comments from the Committee. However, the bourgeois parties are promoting more proposals in this matter, which will be discussed later in the debate. But I'm using the opportunity now to address the suggestions that the Right is behind, plus to say that we support Christian People's Party's loose proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox It is promoted by an overall committee. We are asking the government to ensure, on an ongoing basis, increased appropriations to individual municipalities which can demonstrate that they have not been allocated sufficient funds to provide support to non-governmental organisations in their municipality, with a level of coverage similar to that of the private households social welfare scheme, and to come back with proposals in the revised national budget for 2022 if increased appropriations are needed. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Committee is clear that the system must become unbureaucratic, simple and secure rapid payment to the voluntary sector. We also assume this impatience to be communicated to the municipalities that will manage this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1031	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1036	I am proud that one in record time has been given a solid support scheme for sport and volunteering. Here it has been effective work by the government and now effective treatment in Stortinget. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good and fast work and thank EN especially for the good discussions we have had, which form the basis for the consensus in the case of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV here. This means that we quickly get a system up and not least that we quickly get the money out. That's important, because the need out there is great. The increased electricity bills have taken sport and volunteering hard, organisations that have had a tight economy. The consequences could therefore be serious. Several have mentioned that they had to cut the offer, and especially in offers to children and young people. It had meant less activity in a time when we need more activity. We're on our way out of a pandemic where we really need more sport, more volunteering and even more and stronger community. I also think it is wise for one – as the government has put it – to put in place a scheme of about the same level as the households, with the same principles, and that the municipalities should distribute it. They know the volunteer organisations and sports in their community well. They also have room for discretion, so that one gets adapted to the local circumstances. As always when there are such schemes, there is some uncertainty. Do these arrangements happen to me? Do they meet my organization and our needs? That is why I am very pleased that it is so clearly stated in the agreement that these are schemes that should not have a maximum, which should include district heating – which is also directly linked to electricity and the electricity price – and that a person takes care of different forms of operation, forms of ownership and sub-organisations, even for example. those who are renting. Here's the goal of setting up a system that covers the increased electricity costs. The system shall be simple, unbureaucratic, fair and not least transparent. The goal now must be to get the money out quickly. A thorough work has been done on the basis of this estimate. It is underlined that no other batches have divergent proposals for appropriations. It stands Stortinget unanimously behind. There is also an overall increase in support of a proposal that came on the initiative of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, that one should follow the situation carefully and possibly come back to the RNB. The opposition is also promoting a few suggestions to highlight – I would call it at least – in matters that have been clarified in the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, mentioned in the comments. That is why there will be a different vote, but I hope these proposals do not create uncertainty there as to who is to be supported and that the scheme must be put in place quickly. The important thing for us has been to avoid delays in new investigations, and some of the proposals add up to this. Therefore, we will not support the loose proposals that have come from the Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1051	Today, we are providing support for voluntary organisations with a view to high electricity prices. Voluntary organizations are in many ways the third leg a society is built on, alongside public and private. A huge effort is being made, they contribute to competence, learning and, not least, inclusion and meeting places for people of all ages. Volunteering includes, in some form, everyone in this country and is part of our identity. Access to good premises is a commitment, ownership or renting a building has a cost, and the power price is not insignificant. Managing current prices is almost not possible for many layers and units. The ability to cover the additional costs by other means is particularly limited, and the risk of reduced activity is therefore too high. With the corona as a backtrace, you don't need less activity now, but as much activity as you can afford. Voluntary teams and associations will play an important role here. It was therefore absolutely necessary to set up a system as quickly as possible. The government has. The scheme and the level of compensation are at the same level as for households and have a frame of 250 million. kr. It shall be administered by the municipalities and shall be simple, efficient and secure. There are different types of ownership relationships and forms of operation within voluntary organisations. The scheme shall take its height and, in addition, discretion may be exercised in specific cases. The scheme must also include installations using district heating. The government has arranged for the scheme to come into force as quickly as possible, and that is important. The current bill comes every month, and that's all too much. Frame at 250 million. kr is based on an estimated consumption of electricity, and not documented consumption. That's why the paper is kind of uncertain about it. The uncertainty must be managed to ensure that volunteering comes out as well as household. To this end, a joint committee proposes that one should be reviewed if there is a need for increased permissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1066	The winter's high electricity prices have a hard frame, and they have a wide frame. Many have been told about the power crisis, but little has been done. The government has finally put forward proposals for voluntary teams and organisations that are the framework of the power crisis. We in the Progress Party have long pointed out that volunteering is a hard frame, and we have, among other things, sent in a series of written questions. These have been blacked out by the Council of State without taking sufficient care of the severity of the crisis. When the government finally submits a matter, they do it with a package that is not good enough. The proposed scheme simply does not cover the extra costs of volunteering. It is obvious that the government does not listen to volunteering or sports. Luckily, we're doing this on the Stortinget. I want to claim that it was the Progress Party, along with the rest of the opposition, that ensured that SV got the government party to a decent deal. Volunteering and sport are now paid for the expenses of all build users, regardless of their form of organisation. Now we guarantee that there will not be a roof on the system, and we guarantee that district heating will also be covered. It's a disappointment that the position is too weak to vote for the proposals from the opposition. It's incomprehensible, all the time they claim in annotations, to stand behind their contents. The party of progress, together with the other bourgeois parties, is promoting the proposal that is in line with the SV's pressure to join the government party. The proposal is more binding than just annotations. I can promise that the Progress Party will follow with the arctic eye what the government delivers. It would be a betrayal of volunteering and sport if one did not follow the will of Storting. Finally, I would like to include the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote and inform you that we will also support the two loose proposals, No. 6 and No 7, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1079	The representative, Mr Framnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1084	This has been a tough winter, and it becomes a tough one for many because of the extremely high power prices. Pretty early this winter, we received several messages and media reports about desperate organisations, and then in particular sports teams, which had received such high electricity bills that they did not know if they could continue operating. In my home country, Buskerud, we have also seen that eight-year-old Erle Gusfre from Drammen wrote a letter to the Prime Minister because her sports team had to cancel her football training because they couldn't afford to warm up their artificial grass court. Several sports teams have said that they either need to close down or increase attendance fees. This is not a good policy for children and young people. SV has always been concerned that all children and young people should be able to participate in leisure activities, and especially now, after many offers have been closed due to the pandemic, it is particularly important to maintain arenas for children and youth activity. SV is clear that our aim is to reduce differences in society and that an important measure to prevent children from being excluded due to the poor economy of the family is the lowest possible participation payment. That is why it has been very important for us to put in place a support system to help the voluntary organisations that are now struggling with the sky-high electricity bills, so that they can maintain their offers without charging the bill to the families. This proposition we had to wait a while, but when it first came, we have had good and effective treatment of it in Stortinget. I should like to commend the Labour Party and the Centre for good and constructive negotiations on the matter. The system has been made as simple and unbureaucratic as possible so that the money is made available to the recipients as quickly as possible, and we agree that it is the organisation that pays the electricity bill, which will receive support, regardless of whether they are renting or owning, or what the ownership of the facilities may be. No maximum consumption shall be set, which is important for embracing non-governmental organisations, irrespective of the size of the installation. Everything from alleys, halls and tracks to ski facilities is included. Furthermore, I am pleased that installations using district heating should also be included in the scheme, as quite a few sports teams are connected to district heating. SV also had a wish that plants using gas as an energy source should be included, but we did not agree on that. However, we are dealing with the consensus that we have, because what we agreed on, is something we are very pleased with, namely that the government should ensure ongoing appropriations to municipalities that can prove that the funds do not go to, and that any increased appropriations will be managed in the revised national budget. With this proposal and decision to grant, I hope Erle and all the other children and young people can look forward to a lot of good activity and an important community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1097	It is good that we discuss a crisis package for volunteering. The electricity price crisis comes at the top of other problems the volunteer has known in the last two years. It has been difficult to run different organisations and teams like choirs and corps, volunteer centres and sports associations, to mention some of the very many who are part of the volunteer, when we introduced both 1 meter and 2 meter and Teams. Anyone who has tried to be part of a choir exercise for young children at Teams knows that it's challenging. Exercises were moved out into the open air, into cars or over on digital surfaces. We know that volunteering was like never under the pandemic. They have staffed help phones, organized purchases for people in quarantine, and borrowed leisure equipment for children and young people during the periods when it was almost all we had to do. People all over the country have been working on finding creative solutions to keep living in this incredibly important part of our society. But it's been tough. Many teams and organisations have known about the lack of income from rentals – not so many have married or confirmed in the last two years – or that the quota has been lost because people have quit. The harvest and the winter price crisis have shown us that today's energy market is not working. I would therefore like to refer to Red's primary position in this matter, which is that we must take political control of the energy market and introduce a maximum price of electricity. We have proposed a maximum price of 35 øre per kilowatt hour. If the government had dared to take political control of energy, we could have secured clean energy at a reasonable price both for households, for business and for volunteering. But when the government is not willing to take political responsibility and introduce the maximum price, it is good that there is a support scheme. However, we are concerned that the threshold for getting this support is too high. Red therefore suggests that the aid scheme should be applied at a power price of more than 35 øre per kilowatt hour, not 70 øre. 2022 was proclaimed the year of volunteering. It's a year when we're going to put the spotlight on all the good and important, and for some vital, work done across the country by different teams and organisations. So it's the year we meet again, face to face. To quote the State Council Ola Borten Moe from an interview, we're going to get used to each other again. For many, it's just through the volunteer we're doing it. Then there must be a lunk on the panel ovens, heat on the coffee maker and lights in the lamps in both halls and different layers, and the different layers and organisations must have an economy that is not eaten up by sky-high power prices. By doing so, I am promoting the proposal of Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1110	Then the representative Hege Bae Nyholt mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1116	The left is pleased that power support for volunteering has finally been put in place, but the left believes that the government's proposals are not wide enough. Many voluntary teams and associations are currently in a very difficult economic situation because of the pandemic. On top of this, exceptional electricity costs shall be paid. Here is a concrete example from the municipality of Lier that shows how much these expenses have become: Stopen Sportklubb and Sparta/Bragerøen sports team pay electricity costs for underheating on artificial grass courts. In 2020 they paid about 107 000 kroner for this. In 2021 the bill came to over 338,000 kroner. So the cost has almost tripled. The Stop Sports Club also pays electricity costs for the Liungbanen. In November and December 2021, the electricity bill was over NOK 11000 higher than at the same time in 2020. It emphasizes the cost of what we are now talking about. The left refers to the municipalities responsible for the allocation of electricity support funds. In the government's original proposal, only organisations registered in the Voluntary Register were initially to receive this support. However, some forms of ownership mean that owners cannot be registered in the Register of Liberalities. This may apply to private owners, foundations and cooperatives. Nevertheless, the government provided that municipalities could only assess whether grants should also be granted to such private enterprises, which are not then registered in the Register of Liberalities. We were afraid that this was something that could have contributed to a great deal of uncertainty and different local interpretations. Volunteering Norway was also concerned that this could go beyond the scope of volunteering. The left shared these concerns and therefore promoted some proposals to extend the compensation scheme. We record that the government parties and the SV have made a settlement that takes care of a lot of this, and we are pleased, but we still believe, as I said, that the proposal as it stands now, does not go far enough. Therefore, the Left, in cooperation with the civil parties, promotes a number of proposals to make this system even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1127	Some believe that competitive business is the cornerstone of society. Others believe that the public sector is the cornerstone of society. We in the Greens believe that the non-profit sector and volunteering should be recognised as one of the major pillars of society to a much greater extent than it does today. We therefore very much appreciate the fact that these measures come from the government, and we very much appreciate the work done in the committee and among the parties on the Stortningen in order to get this system as good as possible, and out as quickly as possible. We expect the comments to be followed up, in particular that district heating should also be included in the scheme. We will also support several of the proposals from the blue parties to ensure that the scheme is as inclusive as possible, but we will not support the proposals that want to include fossil energy in the measures. We understand very well the need, we understand the intention, but we in the Greens think it's a better solution to spend money on providing alternative heating solutions, rather than making sure that they're still locked up to use fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1134	High power prices have created major challenges for very many teams and associations. Several teams have stood between either cutting the activity or demanding increased participant fees to pay their bills. It can't happen. Children and young people have already paid a high price for the strict coronary measures in recent years. If the sports teams, the communities and the volunteer now have to cut the activity offer, it will go directly beyond those who have already paid a high price. That's why we now need a more robust compensation system that hits all of the power customers. It is sad that the government has failed to provide a good enough compensation scheme for the sports, the churches and all other voluntary teams and organisations that are now suffering from high electricity prices. These are voluntary teams and organisations that do an invaluable job for the community. It is committed to reading about the sports team at my own home, Close Sports team, which has 94 000 kroner in increased electricity costs in one month. There is a lot of money that will clearly affect how much else they can spend on activities in a month. With a maximum price of 50 øre per kilowatt hour, we want to ensure that sports teams and communities will be left with a better compensation scheme. The government's proposal does not involve primary schools, high schools, the Norwegian Church, russo healthcare, child protection and a number of ideal actors. These are schools and institutions that do an invaluable job, and that should be included in the compensation scheme from day one. Several of the schools might have to downgrade in order to pay the high power prices. It's going to go beyond quality, and it's going to affect the kids, who are losing on this. The government's management of the power crisis has been characterised by a steady patching of the arrangements — a slight increase here and a little adjustment there. This arrangement is part of this. Instead of creating a scheme where volunteering was included from the start, a scheme has been created that only hits someone. Whether this arrangement meets well enough, or whether there will be further flickering, will only show the time. The Christian People’s Party proposes a maximum price that ensures that we compensate for more than 50 cents for all power customers. We do this after seeing the patchwork of arrangements from the government and that they are unable to meet as we would have liked. The Christian People's Party believes it is much better to land on a system that gives the same thing to everyone, who is easy to understand, and who is temporary for the most critical phases in which it is given. That's why we're now proposing a maximum price or compensation for a total of over 50 cents from December 2021 to March 2022. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1147	Then the representative hadle Rasmus Bjuland brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1152	The high electricity prices now hit many through winter and spring, and especially the voluntary sector is hit hard – the sports teams, the corps, the well-being of the community, the morgues, the emergency services or the Tourist Association, to name a few examples. This happened as we were on our way out of two years with a pandemic that has put great restrictions on the ability of non-governmental organisations to create meeting places and gather people. So we're going to blow up the electricity prices. For a sport, the choice can then be between shutting down the gym or demanding more self-payment from the kids on the handball team. The cash register is empty, and it is long to the next cup or flea market that can generate increased revenues. The volunteers are already worn out after two years of pandemic and uncertainty. Although voluntary sector and non-governmental organisations are not alone in marking the increase in electricity prices, they are in a special position. The vast majority of teams and associations have few opportunities to cover increased costs other than simply by increasing the participation fee or reducing the activity. None of the two options are desirable. We are concerned that the power crisis should not offer a lower leisure provision, especially for children and young people. That is why we are currently dealing with the grant scheme for non-governmental organisations. It shall compensate approximately the same proportion of the electricity costs as in the schemes for households and for agriculture, but with some adjustments to make the scheme simple and unbureaucratic, both for the organisations applying for and for the municipalities to manage the scheme. We submit one application and one payment for the whole period – December to March – overall. The organisations only need to provide simple key information on the electricity consumption and then the municipality allocates the grant among the applicants. We have been concerned that the grant will reach those who are struggling with the current bill now. We have therefore proposed a flexible system that takes into account the diversity of the voluntary sector. We have not proposed a maximum consumption limit, nor have we proposed strict limits for whom to apply, as others have claimed here today. Local authorities have great opportunities to make local adjustments so that the scheme takes local volunteering in all its diversity. As I said, we also have no discrimination against operating forms or ownership. The point is that voluntary teams and associations, or organisations with a high level of voluntary effort, are to cover their electricity costs. We have made that clear with the system we are proposing here today, and I hope that the Stortinget supports that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1178	Governments have been very committed to ensuring both sport and culture predictability in the case of corona, and compensation and action for it. Now I understand that corona measures and power support measures are two different things, but both of them are about an extraordinary situation, and it's about ensuring operation until we get back to normal. Many sports, like cultural life, tell us that it will take time; it's not just turning around and getting tournaments in place. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State be willing to come back to the Grand Government – after March – if it turns out that the electricity prices are still much higher than usual? We are already in mid-February, so my concern is the predictability of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1183	First of all, this plan will amount to 250 million. kr cover the power consumption from December to March. So the government has said that with regard to the different types of power support that we have now created – for households, for students, for agriculture, but also for volunteering – we will follow the situation and are not alien to come back, or to continue the arrangements, if necessary. So we continuously evaluate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1188	Even in this short time I have been in, sports have taken contact. Last night, the Nordic Sports team called me and was in despair – a power bill of NOK 72 000, and now they have to think creatively to meet the next bill of NOK 70000. There are not many sources of income for a sports team, and they will not be able to increase membership quotas as it affects those who have the worst ability to pay. The question they had for me is, When are the power support schemes paid to them? Because it's urgent. From December 2020 to December 2021 the electricity bill increased by 316 p.m., even with a reduced consumption of 2600 kWh. What is the Minister's response to the questions raised by the sports team, and what does the Minister intend to do to the municipalities so that payments are made as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1195	It is precisely because of the concerns the representative has received, and as we have also received, that we are now proposing to the Stortinget a simple and unbureaucratic system in which voluntary teams and associations receive support through the municipalities. It'll be easier to search for a single layer, a single association. You have to do business, not with bureaucracy and applications. We also give the money through the municipalities so that the municipalities can also judge which teams and associations have such a large element of voluntary activity that they qualify for power support. Now Stortinget got this case on 4 February. We've created a whole new system to hit those who are in the volunteer register. It has not been made before, and I am pleased that we have got this done in a very short time. And as soon as this decision is made, we're going to get that money out to the municipalities, which can start paying the bills to teams and associations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1203	We now see that parts of the volunteer are forced into a situation where they depend on fossil energy for heating. It is an unpredictable source of energy. We know that part of the reason that power prices are so high is that the electricity price is connected to the price of fossil energy, which has risen. It is therefore an unpredictable source of energy for the future. What measures does the Council of State consider that we can do to make volunteering more independent from this energy source?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1208	What sources of energy voluntary teams and associations depend on are well as different as the large number of voluntary teams and associations. Most people have power-consuming facilities or clubhouses and that kind of thing, and a lot of people depend on power or district heating – most of them are. That is why we are now also providing power support for those who use electricity and district heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1213	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1218	Exceptional power prices are difficult to deal with too many, and not least sport and volunteering. The calls for help were clear when prices were very high. Without the grant scheme, the modest crystal clear: either the organisations had to set up the membership quota or they had to take the activity down. Both parts are very unfortunate. After almost two years of pandemic, the last thing we need is that children and young people are met with closed doors. It just can't happen. The government parties boast that the change is coming quickly. That's probably a definition question. The right and left called for action on several occasions to help the volunteer. On 17 December, we presented a proposal asking the government to assess the impact of electricity prices and come back as soon as possible with remedial measures. It was downhearted. On 24 January we proposed that an application-based municipal compensation scheme be established to assist voluntary teams and organisations. This was also downgraded. The government's answer was all the way that they had an understanding of the difficult situation, and that they followed the situation closely. It didn't help exactly those who were affected, and I don't think it should be necessary to follow the situation closely as long as they did to get serious. However, we are very pleased that today we finally have a system that creates more predictability and calm for a very important sector in our society. I am also pleased that we have a system in place that is much better than the one that was first presented by the government – a system that takes into account most of what the Right has thought the scheme must include, and a system that SV has obviously helped to influence and improve strongly. So a thank you to SV from me here today. Today, we are promoting more proposals on what we think has been necessary in order to get a good enough system for sport and volunteering. The main changes for the Right are that the scheme must apply to all sports facilities, regardless of their ownership, all types of premises where voluntary pay the energy bill, all levels of organisation and different types of energy sources. The best thing would have been for the government parties and SV had voted in favour of the proposals that are being promoted here today. They are not promoted as a mark, as the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg mentioned here on the Chair. In fact, we presented our proposals and our comments before the agreement was reached. So if anything, it's the government parties and the SV that actually copied our proposals and what we think is necessary. But even if it's not adopted, I'm counting on the government to follow up, and I expect them to, once there's an agreement. This needs and deserves sport and volunteering and all those who enjoy the activity they create.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1231	I think very many of you sitting here, in some form and celebrating that the year of volunteering, 2022, was going on, already in December. After 15 months of empty football courses, clubhouses and dance floors, with uncertainty, loss of income and infectious diseases rules, it was the turn of volunteering. But as early as November, it was very clear that sport was going straight from a health crisis into a power crisis. In Liggal sports teams, electricity costs went from NOK 15 000 in the last two months of 2020 to NOK 93 000 in the last two months of 2021. That's an increase of 600 pst. At home in Kristiansand, a fluttering new tour hall was ready. They have built it according to all customs, so that they would not be a heat loss, but the electricity bills for November and October were already a big shock to the club. They themselves said that they could well bring down the heat, but it goes without saying that it is not easy to practice flattening with woolen weights. Sport and volunteering consist of many fantastic fires that want to do something good for children and young people and their community. These volunteers, who spend all their spare time planning and arranging for others, had earned a break from unforeseeableness after the pandemic. It is very good that this money is coming, but already when the Stortinge treated the ordinary power support on 17 December, this money and these measures were demanded, while the volunteer has been referred to waiting until 3 February. It goes without saying that there has not been a break from unforeseeableness through a cold December and cold January month. In the end, volunteering is very diverse. Teams and sports associations operate in different ways. Yesterday we were able to read about the Saving Bank Sør Amfi Grimstad in Fädrelandsven. It's an AS, but it's owned by a recreational club. In November and December 2021 they had nearly 200,000 kroner in electricity costs. It was a triple from 2020. Even if we get insurance today, however, the Executive Director of the arena was quite concerned about whether they were going to go bankrupt, because even though they are an AS, they can't have any income in another way, because they receive funds. In any case, I think that there should be only a lack of support for all facilities that have a voluntary element, completely independent of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1242	It would have been an advantage if the opposition had actually read the proposition we're dealing with today. They obviously haven't, because in this room there are a lot of claims about what it contains and what it doesn't, which are completely fundamentally wrong. There is nothing new in the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, except that we have clarified that the power support also concerns district heating, which was always the intention, but which we clearly write in. It's related to the power price. We also say that we will return to Stortinget if it announced the amount of 250 million. kr is not enough. All the proposals of the Right, Left and Advance Party are respected in the proposition that was promoted to the Stortinget, with the exception of the proposals of the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party on ear thresholds per kilowatt-hour. So we've also been concerned about the issues of the size and the committee. That is why we have put forward a system that has taken account of it. Nor is it the case that we limit which voluntary teams and associations can receive power support according to ownership, etc. One can get if one is a member of the volunteer register, but we also say that the individual municipality can exercise discretion and give to groups that have a large element of volunteering but are not a member of the volunteer register. We have created here a very accurate, simple and unbureaucratic system that takes account of the diversity of volunteering, and we do not want anyone to fall outside, but we see no need to compensate the municipalities of the municipal owned and run facilities. There the municipalities have completely different economic muscles than volunteering, and they can and should take care of it themselves. We need to produce more power and clean energy in the future. The new government is already running. It took us 100 days to launch an offensive ocean wind strategy, where the previous government spent eight years not getting its finger out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1253	I think we will leave the debate on the sea wind to a different debate than this one. Very briefly to the concerns of the Council of State as to why the opposition has made proposals: the proposals are very brief on concerns raised by the Norwegian Sports Association and Freedom Norway. It's all about the proposition that the government has put forward is at the bottom of one A4 page, with room for quite a lot of interpretation. That's the interpretation of the two central organizations in Freedom Norway, and it's the ones that are also translated into proposals that have been promoted here today. I'm glad the Council of State said what she said now, because that's really why I drew myself. In the line change on the floor, the council said that it was a prerequisite to be registered in the volunteer register. It was said in the line change, and then the state council moderated, up here right now, in the last post, and said what's in the proposition. I'm very happy about that. It's also one of the concerns that lies there, because there's also a room for interpretation. What is contained in the wording ‘in specific cases the municipalities may do’, etc.? It is not least one of the concerns raised by Freedom Norway, and I believe that a unanimous committee agrees, because there are many different forms of ownership out there, and we are therefore concerned that no one should fall under the definition of ‘specific cases’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1262	It becomes no longer true that the proposition is deficient, because the opposition repeats it. Now we have said several times that the proposals promoted by the opposition, with the exception of the proposals of the Progress Party, the Red and Christian People's Party on max. etc., are respected in the proposition. I did not say in the line change that only those who are members of the volunteer register can get. We have just made up for flexibility in this system, because the municipalities, the individual community or the city, know best about their volunteering. That's why we're just leaving it up to the municipalities to see if there's anyone who might not belong to the volunteer register, who falls outside, but should still qualify for power support. This is a simple and unbureaucratic system without a limit that addresses all the concerns of the opposition. Then I've said it crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1267	Things don't get any more false either because the state council will constantly claim that we are coming with falsehood. Nor can the Council of State be entirely certain that we have read the proposals submitted by the Council of State to the Committee. Something else would be unprofessional, and I actually don't think the Council of State believes that we're so devious in dealing with important issues in the family and cultural committee. That being said, it is quite right that the Council of State has opened up the possibility for municipalities, in exceptional cases, to derogate from the requirement of registration in the voluntary register, which my good colleague, Tage Pettersen, was also involved in. But here it was opened up to a great uncertainty, and I think I've heard the Council of State also say here today, if not earlier, that some of the most important thing now is that we remove the uncertainty and create peace for an important sector in our society. Now, what we're saying is that it shouldn't be just in special cases. It shall apply to all installations, irrespective of their ownership. It shall apply to all types of premises, irrespective of who shall use them. That was at least our proposal; it may not have been approved by the Council of State and the Government. We have made a number of proposals that would eliminate uncertainty, which would ensure that everyone was included. This also applies to district heating, and we also proposed gas to ensure that we can also have alternative forms of energy in the future. I hope the Council of State will in the future be safe and confident that the representatives of the Family and Culture Committee are preparing and going through carefully and reading the matters that the Department sends to the Committee. I promise that we will, and then we will be allowed to disagree. We can have different interpretations of things, but to say that some dangers of falsehood, I actually don't think we should do from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1278	This is a little unusual. We have a proposition that's short and simple, and that's good for people to bring this in a simple way, and that we can explain a power support system in a simple way. I think that's an advantage. But when the committee has asked its questions and written its comments, and we say that it is taken care of in the system that has been set up, it is a little strange that the opposition continues to make its mark by making individual proposals, which we have also been told through the committee's work that open doors are being opened and already maintained, with the exception of – to be right – the right – Right-wing proposal to include also gas and these maxim proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1297	Then we're ready to go to voting. The majority will vote first on the remaining cases from Tuesday 15 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1311	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 3, from Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party and Red proposal No 4, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, by Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens the proposals No 6-8, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to expand and clarify the mandate of the Energy Commission to provide measures to ensure reasonable and predictable electricity prices in Norway for both households and business, including different forms of pricing/regulation and, if necessary, to appoint several members to ensure that this is achieved in the Commission’s work.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1349	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible and by 1 April at the latest with a review of the action space in Norway to regulate the export of electricity via the cables going to the EU and the United Kingdom.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1366	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to start negotiations immediately with the EU and the United Kingdom with concrete demands to regulate the export of power on the new North Sea Link and NordLink foreign tables for electricity prices and power supply, and to ensure that the planned capacity increase in the NSL is maintained until further clarification. [[NSL]] The size shall be kept informed of developments in an appropriate manner.’» The Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1383	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for new models of network rental that take into account the need for a stronger network to ensure the electrification of society, while taking into account the needs of private households for a simple model that also provides an incentive to increase energy efficiency.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1401	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to draw up and promote a proposal for a model for network rental that is possible for a consumer to adapt, does not weaken the incentive for energy efficiency improvement and ensures the least possible deployment of networks.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1418	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw the energy message’s proposal to impose a rush time charge on electricity [[effect-based tariffs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1433	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Party of Presidents, the Socialist Left, the Red and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to require the NVE/RME to require the network companies to repay immediately their debts to their customers through reduced network leases in 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1448	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the consequences of adding the increased costs of grid loss, upgrade and maintenance of the mains network to the state rather than to consumers’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1470	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1482	President! My vote was not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1487	President! The same is true of me.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1492	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1511	During the debate, Frank Edvard Sve put forward four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction of the network lease by reducing the income framework of the network companies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the interest received by the transmission system companies on the capital invested, the so-called reference rate, is reduced to a maximum of 2 pst. from 1 January 2022.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities and county councils are not able to benefit from the network companies in order to finance other tasks in the municipality, but that this money is to operate and expand networks or reduce people’s network rentals.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the rules governing authorised network leases are amended so that the permitted return on capital follows the development of the general level of interest rates on deposits with such companies.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1550	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1562	We then go over to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1574	In the course of the debate, Mr Wold put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the consequences of the amendments to the Criminal Code in 2016 on the conviction of the transfer to mandatory mental health protection and the implementation of the consent requirement of the Mental Health Act in 2017.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up proposals for changes to the Mental Health Act and the Criminal Code, in order to better address society’s need for protection and treatment of seriously ill people.’ Suggestion 3 reads: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes in order to safeguard social protection by imposing mandatory mental health protection or otherwise appropriate detention of mentally ill persons, who are considered to be a danger to others and themselves. This is to take account of individual patients and society’s need for protection.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1608	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1620	Case No. 2 was interpellation, and case no. Three went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1632	During the debate, Hadle Rasmus Bjuland has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals that municipalities cannot include cash support in the basis for the calculation of benefits under the Social Services Act and the Housing Aid Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1651	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals that municipalities cannot include child benefit in the basis for calculating benefits under the Housing Aid Act.’ The Left, the Red and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1675	The Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1694	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of the Right, Party of Progress and the Left proposal No 5, from Sigbjørn Framnes on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Hadle Rasmus Bjuland on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 8, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests setting the compensation threshold in the extraordinary electricity prices compensation scheme to 35 ø/kWh’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1724	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests setting the compensation threshold in the extraordinary electricity prices compensation scheme to 50 ø/kWh’.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1743	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the electricity support scheme for non-governmental organisations to be based on a 50 øre per kW threshold for consumption for November and December 2021 and January, February and March 2022. The scheme shall be set up in such a way as to include all voluntary activities, irrespective of the form of operation. In addition, all non-profit actors within, inter alia, care for themind, child protection, hospitals, as well as higher education institutions, health schools, management companies and similar actors shall be included.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1762	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to include sports facilities heating energy sources other than electricity.’ The right and the red have announced support for the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1782	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the compensation mechanism for exceptional electricity prices be extended to include increased costs for the use of all types of energy sources, including district heating and gas.’; Red and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1799	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all sports facilities, regardless of their ownership, which have a significant element of voluntary activity qualify for compensation for exceptional electricity prices.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all levels of organisation of non-governmental organisations are included in the compensation scheme for exceptional electricity prices’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the compensation mechanism for exceptional electricity prices applies to all types of premises, buildings and installations for which non-governmental organisations are responsible for electricity/energy costs, irrespective of what the premises are used for. The public shall not be required to have the buildings or installations open to the public.» Red, the Green and Christian People's Party has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1828	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1941	Document 8:114 S is proposed to be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The representative of Tobias Drevland Lund has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1948	I would ask that this proposal be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1953	The President maintains that the proposal is to be sent to committee and that there will be voting on the procedure for Document 8:114 S. There will be alternative voting between the President’s proposal that Document 8:114 S be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and Tobias Drevland Lund’s proposal to deal with it under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-17.ana.ud155e1967	The proposal is therefore sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – That is not the case, and the meeting has been cancelled.
