ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e28	The called alternate for Akershus, Anita Patel, is now taking the seat. The representative, Hans Andreas Limi, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e38	On behalf of the representatives of the Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug, Roy Steffensen, Terje Halleland and myself, I would like to make a proposal on new economic policies and socially profitable investments in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e43	The representative, Mrs Hussein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e48	On behalf of the big business representatives Sara Bell, Kathy Lie, Grete Wold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the firm system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e53	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e69	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim, Anette Trettebergstuen and Terje Aasland will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e78	This morning we were again presented with a new maritime wind policy from the government. This happens quite often at the moment; it is only a few weeks since the government introduced the government's policy in the supplementary communication. It is hardly by chance that the government presents new maritime wind policy objectives at a time when the government could otherwise be imposed on a target by a more ambitious majority on the Stortinget, but this can still happen. Once the government has already left the policy in the supplementary message, we can wonder if there will be an additional message for the Energy Communication – or perhaps the government can give us a message when they have finished the message we are dealing with in the Stortinget. For this treatment, government parties have invited the parties on the Stortinget to a broad settlement, among other things. on sea wind. Today, the government has put forward an ambition for the sea wind bet which is lower and longer in time than has been proposed by the Right and several other parties. What is the reason why the government has fallen at a lower level of ambition? And will the government and government parties be willing to participate at a higher level of ambition and a faster pace as part of a settlement in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e87	Thank you for the question. If Norway is to succeed in the sea wind effort, I think it is important that we be able to build a broad foundation for how we should proceed. When the government has today launched the objective of allocating land equivalent to 30,000 MW by 2040, it is an important step and an important basis for bringing the energy nation Norway forward. That means that the tempo is high, and it's going to be high to achieve that ambition. We are now working concretely on the allocation related to Southern North Sea II and Utsira Nord. We develop pre-qualified models, auction models and qualitative criteria related to Utsira Nord. We have also said that we want a significant allocation in 2025, which is only three years ahead. That allocation should be so extensive as to enable us to scale up, develop technology and, above all, industrial development. What is going to happen in 2025 is perhaps the most important step towards taking a clear global position also in the development of sea winds. Then I notice that questions are asked if we want to reinforce this through Stortinget. I am concerned that we are finding a good solution in Stortinget, and that all the different environments that are now betting on sea wind will be assured that this effort will actually be implemented. That's what's also meant for the government: to facilitate a sea wind deployment in which we can maintain and further develop the quality of the Norwegian power system, while at the same time facilitating increased exports. I believe that what we have launched today is very ambitious. I think it is also a wise time approach to such a great effort for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e98	I notice that the Council of State does not answer the question that is being asked. I think it is very special that when the government parties invite to a broad settlement, the government chooses to bridge this process by making a very own goal in the middle of talks in the Storting and then show no willingness to meet the Storing to get to a more ambitious sea wind bet and a higher pace than the government has now set in. But now leave it as it is. At the press conference, Vedum said that the framework for development is very clear. But it is not, and the Council of State has just confirmed it from the pulpit. There's a lot of things ahead of us. We do not know anything about funding, network development, different models for developing and investigating environmental impacts. So the question is, when does the next drop come from the government of ocean winds? Can we expect a press conference to be held in June, where we will learn a little more about the progress of the government's maritime wind effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e105	I can assure the representative of Astrup that there is a lot going on around the government, and we are constantly developing policies and fixing important milestones, not least for Norwegian industry and Norwegian energy supply. I answered the question. It is up to Stortinget to find solutions, possibly broad solutions, and I encourage Stortinget to do so. I believe that what we have presented today is a timely very ambitious plan. In developing sea winds, we also need to take into account the current power system, if we are not to dispose of Norwegian base for 30 000 MW of clean exports. It may sound as if this is what the representative is asking for. I'm not a follower of it. I believe that we should phase sea wind into the Norwegian power system in a good and safe way, which contributes to more stable and low prices, and which facilitates industrial development. Then I think we need the timeline that the government has launched today, where we gradually allocate the area until 2040, but with a significant allocation in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e112	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e117	It's not more than a month since the Council of State said there was no basis for setting any target for the sea win. Today, there is a goal set. A month ago it was also such that one had to determine whether hybrid cables were appropriate, but today one has parked that investigation and said that hybrid cables are okay. There's something the Center Party notices. But it's not okay until after 2025, if I understand the Council of State correctly. Then the question is, is it because the Central Party assumes that they are then out of government, so that hybrid cables can be built then, or could phase two of the Southern North Sea II be expanded with hybrid cables before 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e122	That possibility is present. What the Workers' Party and the Centre's government have done and assembled us now is a very important emphasis on the need to develop new renewable energy that will help to strengthen and maintain the quality that historically characterise Norway, with access to a sufficient amount of reasonable energy. In the case of sea window construction, it must be provided with a variety of solutions. There can be cables directly to Europe, there can be cables to Norway, and there can be solutions with two-way power flows as the basis. But it's too early now. It may seem right that it is time to conclude, but it is too early now as well as to dimension in detail what such a project should look like, for example. in 2025. Much will also depend on how we see developments in power demand in Norway in the next few years. There is a significant need to support industry, and we will be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e129	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e134	The council says it's too early now, but Southern North Sea II phase 2 is due to be expanded before 2025. Then we need to be clear on what framework conditions will apply, whether it is relevant to expand with hybrid cables or not. When the Council of State says it can happen, but it's too early now, it means new investigations. On the one hand, the Council of State has given a mandate to the NVE to investigate this until the harvest, and on the other hand it has already concluded today that hybrid cables are okay, but it is unclear whether this will apply to Southern North Sea II phase 2. Here, the Council of State has to clarify what will become the government's policy, because that is not the way Social Violence Vedum said at the press conference today, that the framework for development is very clear. On the contrary, everything is very unclear, and the goal that is set is very far ahead of time. The important thing is what's going to happen in the next few years. We still don't know when allocation will take place in the already announced areas. Can the Council of State at least respond to this — when will the allocation take place in the areas already declared?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e142	Let me first say that having expanded Southern North Sea II Phase 2, as the representative of Astrup points out, is not a realistic approach. But the fact that we may have allocated, prepared and been engaged in marine window construction in 2025/2026 is realistic. We need to focus a little bit on the ambitions. I believe the government has done that through the presentation that has been going on today. There's a very good foundation there. The framework is really very clear. We're starting this year with basic studies of the Southern North Sea and the Utsira North, just to cut down on concessional treatment time. We're looking at whether it's possible to run a number of things in parallel during concessional treatment, just to bring this down with concessional treatment time, so that we can get started with faster expansion of sea wind in Norway. These are important milestones that we are now working on in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e149	Marius Arion Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e154	Governments and governments presented new sea wind targets today. Sea wind is significantly more expensive than hydropower per day, which one has not wanted to see in particular, such as upgrading and gentle watercourse development. What I'm asking is: What are the prices of government and government in the forecasts ahead for offshore wind power generation in the near future and towards 2040?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e159	I choose to relate to those who really can, and there are not least many environments in the supplier industry that say that the most important thing now to bring down the costs of developing liquid sea winds is that in the early period we allocate considerable space to enable them to scale, contribute to technology development and industrialisation in order to reduce costs. Then I have said that in 2025 we come with a comprehensive allocation that should just contribute to this, so that prices can be reduced. I have spoken to major actors who believe that they can develop sea wind on a Norwegian base without subsidies, which can make it an accounting investment. There is an exciting development in this respect. Just as a small example: in a short time, wind turbines may be able to represent 20 MW per turbine. There are exciting opportunities lying there, because we are developing this technologically in a completely different way from what has been the situation and the need up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e164	Marius Arion Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e169	There are certainly many opportunities for floating sea winds; there are also opportunities for sea winds, but it is currently a deficit enterprise. While Equinor made $67 million. kr an hour of oil and gas, they lost 90 million. kr in the quarter of its renewable action. What happens if neighboring countries build a lot of sea winds with the same weather pattern? How will it affect the power grid and price picture in Norway and the EU if there is a lot of wind blowing and a lot of wind at the same time? We already see negative prices of wind power when it blows a lot and consumption is lower than production. What has the government thought about this problem? How has it been proposed to solve this both forcefully and in terms of prices if Europe as a whole is now paying and we have a situation in which we do not make money on the production of wind power when conditions are right for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e176	Now those who are going to participate in the development of sea winds will probably consider how energy markets are developing further. There's a lot of uncertainty right now. I do not agree with the reasoning that Equinor has lost money on its renewable investment. On the contrary, I think they are now investing in a basis for making money on renewable energy in the future, and I feel and believe that the Stortinget has been concerned that Equinor too will develop in a renewable dimension, so that they can be involved and take significant positions in that context. And I hope there are several actors participating in that particular race. When it comes to managing wind power towards the Norwegian power system, we say very clearly that we must ensure that the quality of the hydropower in the Norwegian power system is maintained when we phase in sea winds. This means that power capacity, e.g. installed in our hydropower, probably need to be reinforced. We also need more networks to deal with this, and we also need to have more networks and more power capacity in Norwegian hydropower because we want to facilitate industrial development around the country. It is an important prerequisite for Norway to succeed as an industrial nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e183	Marius Arion Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e188	That's good to hear. Wind power can be very good for Norway if sensible solutions are provided, including hybrid cables, which the government has previously opposed, which could lead to increased power exports from Norway, where wind power producers are given access to Norwegian hydropower. How does the government propose that this should not happen, that there should not be a lot of export cables? Will there be export restrictions in force? Who will own the power cables - will it become Statnet, or will private developers have access to inter-national connections? Have the Councils clarified these premises?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e193	Let me first say that the government has never said no to hybrid cables. The government has said that Sørlige Nordsjö will be expanded with a cable to Norway. That's also the consequences for Utsira Nord. Now we're going to get 14 TWh production capacity into a power system that hurts to need it. It was an entirely correct and important decision — not least for industrial development in Norway. Now, when we're launching our ambitions towards 2040 on land allocation and also ambitions related to 2025, it's clear that there must be different network solutions that form the basis for it. What's important is that the authorities and we take care of, is that we don't now increase the vulnerability of the Norwegian power system. It is important that we are able to maintain energy security – the premise that we should have sufficient reasonable energy in the future. This should be the basis for Norway to be the industry’s first choice in 10, 15 and 20 years. And that is the basis we have, I believe, well arranged for in what we have launched today in the case of sea winds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e198	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e204	It's nice to present targets for the sea win, but without any new tools to get it started, we're equidistant. SV has proposed a fast track, or a shortcut, for the development of liquid sea winds where we first oblige oil companies to expand and pay for the sea wind effort. My question is whether it is relevant for the government to be involved in something like this, and also how the government intends to ensure the community's ownership of the new power that is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e209	The main framework condition — perhaps — to succeed in sea wind is that one is willing to allocate sufficient space. That's what we're making very clear today, so that's the most important tool. Many in industry are already saying that if the area is large enough, they are going to be able to scale and make technology development and industrialization that makes this commercially interesting. With regard to the oil companies and the imposition of electrification, I really hope that the oil companies, through what we have presented today, see the possibilities of using sea wind as an important input in reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. until 2030. I really believe – and hope, as I said – that these should engage strongly in this and be an important contributor to our success. I am absolutely convinced that the players on the Norwegian pedestal will contribute to this. So that's the last thing, if we need any more state actors: I think Equinor is a good example of sea wind betting. State power has the interest, and we own... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e218	I thank you for your answer. I record that there is a lot of hope in the government's investment in sea wind and not so many concrete instruments to achieve this. Another question: It is now less than five weeks since the government submitted its supplementary message to the Energy Communication, and now it comes with another supplement to the additional message. The question is whether we can expect more plugins for the additional message. To help the government on the way, I can inform you that we are calling for a much stronger effort to reduce energy consumption, especially in Norwegian construction. We also demand a much stronger bet on solar energy. The question will then be whether the government will bring something new here as well, before Stortinget will deal with the additions to the energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e225	First of all, what we have presented today is a concrete framework for how we will succeed in the construction of sea windows in Norway, and how we will lay an important foundation for the development of the energy nation of Norway. What we have presented today is not an addition to the supplementary notice, it's the government's ambition. So I hope, as I said in my reply to the representative of Astrup, that the Stortinget actually takes on it, because I think that if we're going to succeed in such futures, it's important that we actually put on as broad a political basis as possible to succeed in those assumptions, so that one establishes the certainty that one allocates the area in line with this, and that one can somehow invest, that one can be involved and take risk – maybe lose on the first project and then win on the next. That's a prerequisite for success. That's how you've been developing industry for 120 years in Norway, and that's what I think we're going to do. I hope, as I said, that the Storting also broadly adheres to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e232	Then I have a question related to the allocation of land to sea wind. It is important here to avoid conflicts with other important industries and also to draw experience from the debate on land wind power. The question then arises: When will the government strengthen the Environment Directorate and give them the task of providing an up-to-date knowledge base on the bottoms of the sea, marine life and bird in relevant sea wind areas? And not least, when will the government engage in dialogue with interested interests around, for example: fishing in order to clarify the conditions of land use at sea in view of the establishment of sea winds?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e237	I very much agree with the representative that we have to lay the foundation for good coexistence. That means we have to have good dialogue, not least with the fisheries. I have had a meeting with parts of the fishing industry and said that we want to have dialogue and listen to and take seriously, for example. the fishing interests. Right now, in what's coming, we want to make sure that we start with the basic studies related to depths, bottom conditions, etc. in Southern North Sea and Utsira North, and we will also start environmental monitoring as soon as possible, so that those processes do not delay our concessional treatment itself. So I totally agree. We're working on this, and it's important that we succeed. We have also said that the normal procedures relating to concession treatment do not leave, because that is the prerequisite for ensuring that we are able to take care of different interests in these major projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e242	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e247	Based on what was said at the press conference today, we could get the impression that the electricity prices will just go down, we're building up more power, that today's problem is that we have a power deficit, and that that's why the prices are high. But that's not true. Today we have a surplus of power. What we've been through in winter is a power crisis. So my question to the Council of State is: why does the Council of State want to produce more, build more, export more and open to hybrid cables without regulating the market? Isn't it to lead the voters behind the light to pretend that prices are going down this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e252	I am committed to developing the opportunities that are not least about job development in Norway. Making it possible for us to develop industry, power-processing industry, battery plants, hydrogen production, etc. is very important both in terms of new, safe jobs and also the green shift. That's point one. That is why we are reaching significant levels of sea wind. So that's not exactly what's being said. Power prices will go down with more power. All forecasts show that more power entering the power system contributes to a slightly lower price picture. I fully agree with Mr Marhaug that we are now in an extreme situation. It's extremely high power prices, and I'm very happy that we've got a good solution together with SV here in Stortinget about a system that allows us to reduce the cost to people when the prices of power are extremely high, as they are in these days. But more force into the market will mean that a get somewhat lower prices than they would be without that force.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e261	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e266	It is good that the Council of State acknowledges that we have a crisis today that is not about us having a power deficit, because that is not true. So when the government at the press conference talked about getting prices down by adding more power to the system, I wonder what reality they're in, because as long as the market gets hold, prices could still be high. When the government also opens up hybrid cables, I still wonder whether the government can guarantee that the plans currently in place will not lead to continued high and unstable prices and increased unregulated exports abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e272	I stress that more force will contribute to lower prices based on what is the price picture, possibly without that force being available. The second thing to do in order to maximise price-reductionimpacts as quickly as possible is to take additional measures. An additional measure is also very important in this context. With regard to the framework of our investment in sea wind, we say very clearly that our hydropower, which is the jewel of the Norwegian power system, must be developed, on the basis of the phase-in of sea wind as well, so that we support energy security and the condition that we can succeed with reasonable prices to industry, business and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e279	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e284	I have an additional question about the plugin message. The press conference that was today early was the government's third press conference on sea wind in three months, but the sea wind effort has not been any greater during the press conferences. The only thing that has been bigger is the word government is user. The new thing today is that one now sees a goal, simply a goal that we should have this ocean wind adventure in place about. About 80th birthday to Jonas Gahr Støre. But how is that going to happen? That is what the Stortinget and the industry are asking. The problem is going to be the same: The government will not let the power go to other countries than Norway. Governments said instead that the government has never said that they are opposed to hybrid cables – well, they have gone against the two projects they have opened up to. Then the question is: Will the government open up hybrid cables in the period for which the government is actually elected, by 2025, or will it wait until the Prime Minister reaches 80?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e291	I would like to start by stressing that when we took over the government offices, there was no sign of significant sea wind in the government offices, nor in the oil and energy department. What is now created, we have created. We work every day to succeed in that. With regard to the first two projects, Southern North Sea II and Utsira North, these go to Norway with cables. It helps to strengthen the power situation in Norway and provides the basis for making industrial investments of great importance. In the continuation and development of this also cables that have power flows both ways are part of the solution for this. How we technically finally want to design this, it's too early to say anything about right now. It is important that we make thoughtful and wise decisions when we see what the Norwegian power system will then need. We are committed to developing Norway on the basis of the renewable resources available to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e298	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e303	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on a new sea wind target. In the case of sea wind, we have very long known the enormous potential of Norway for renewable energy production on Norwegian soil. We have for a very long time – through alternating governments – neglected the enormous potential of not having had the speed to roll out tools and light out areas. Now the government has set a target that is very far ahead of time. New areas will be released in three years’ time, it is said, and Norway is already being set up – to use a sea metaphor – to expand and position itself in the world when it comes to seawinding. Yesterday I read in the Energy and Climate web newspaper that on 18 May there will be a top-level meeting at Prime Minister level, to which Denmark and the European Commission invite, where the Netherlands, Belgium and several other countries will be present, on greater ambitions for sea-window construction in the North Sea. Why is Norway not invited?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e310	The representative must almost ask the Danish Minister for Energy, whom I understand has invited to the meeting. Norway is not part of the EU; that is why they have gathered. I also have a feeling that this applies to Elhubs to be launched in Denmark, and those who have agreed to it, which is important. What I'm very pleased about is that the Greens also end up with the ambition that the government has for us to use Norwegian sockets to produce renewable energy. It is very important, it has enormous potential. I mean the basis, as it is now laid down, is very important to succeed in this. We have a lot of opportunities in this, and can we make broad, good solutions too, so that the industry and the actors who are now impatient to get started actually understand that there is a broad political majority in Norway to develop this initiative, that will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e317	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e322	My question goes to the Minister for Development. In January, the government invited the Taliban terrorist organisation to Norway. While many Norwegians had problems paying their electricity bills, there was evidence that the Taliban had a luxury stay in Norway by private aircraft and lived at a hotel in Holmenkollocken. At the time, there was no way how great these conversations were. All the parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, thought this was quite fine, and afterwards they came out and had great expectations about what was going to happen. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was said that during the Taliban delegation’s visit to Norway, it was strongly and frequently underlined the importance of women’s rights. Former Labour Party politician and Secretary-General of the Refugee Aid, Jan Egeland, engaged in saying that there had been a very good meeting, and that commitments had been made. Now we see how much – or rather little – these promises were worth. Thus, after this meeting in Norway, burka mandatorys have been put in place. Women are refused to work, and preferably they should not leave their home at all. Women are now also refused to drive a car. It just gets worse and worse. My question is: How much contact have Norwegian authorities had with the Taliban regime after the Oslo visit? And does the government feel tricked after the visit – as it was so enthusiastic about the promises that were made, and we were told that this was so positive, and now do we see the result?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e333	The government is very disappointed with the signals that have come from the de facto regimes in Afghanistan regarding women's rights, girls' access to education and a number of signals we have received in the last days and weeks. At the same time, a balance has to be found where Norwegian authorities contribute where we can, in order to assist civilians in need in Afghanistan, who are facing a major crisis. A few weeks ago, I was at the so-called spring meeting in Washington, D.C., talking to international actors, the UN, the World Bank, who have access to the ground in Afghanistan, and who could tell that there are still gaps where humanitarian aid can reach. There is a wide-ranging dialogue between various international actors and assistance providers, such as Norway and other countries, in order to strike the right balance between taking a sharp distance from the political developments we see in Afghanistan and at the same time trying to alleviate distress in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e340	The Progress Party fully agrees that we must provide humanitarian aid, but it must do so through humanitarian organisations, and it must do so through international organisations. That is what we also said in January. However, the government chose to invite this terrorist organisation to Norway. I did not get an answer to my question: What contact has there been between the Norwegian authorities and the Taliban since this visit? And what will happen now, with the massive suppression of women, for that contact to continue? Would you now cut off the dialogue with the Taliban from Norway and set an example that this is not acceptable and leave that job to international organisations, where it should be constantly?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e348	All financial support that has benefited civilian Afghans over time since the Taliban took over Afghanistan has gone through international and humanitarian organisations. That's where the representative can take it easy. There has been some dialogue at the level of office, but this, as the representative knows, is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, it is natural for her to communicate the details in this respect, as appropriate. But what I can stress is that both the United Nations system and the World Bank have identified areas, including: in the education sector, where it is possible to contribute to emergency relief in Afghanistan without de facto contributing to support for the Taliban regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e355	There will be follow-up questions – Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e360	I'm going to move to another country where taxpayers' money is wasted. Democracy champion Halima Ibrahim stated in Aid News that all the money coming to Somalia goes to corrupt politicians and fills their pockets, even at the elections that were just being held. Norway is worth 526 million in the year. kr to Somalia. Over the last five years, we've given 3.1 billion. kr. It's $2,200 per household, which is wasted. Does the Minister think that this money has been spent sensibly, and can she prove that it has made things better? Will she challenge Halimi Ibrahim on this, when she, as a Somali, says that the funds are being misused? We have said that we should bet on civil society and the regime in Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e369	I want to distance myself from some of the manufacturing that the representative uses in this post. No, aid has not been wasted in Somalia, aid to Somalia contributes to the relief of distress and to the saving of lives. That being said, the political situation in Somalia is precarious, but we have seen developments over the last few days and weeks that progress is being made in the road map towards getting a parliament in place. We follow developments very closely, along with, among others. The World Bank, which is our primary partner in support of Somalia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e381	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Our valuable power has built societies, built industry and secured inhabitants and districts. By means of official controls, our country has been a source of competitive advantage that few others have had, at least until the moving transition to market governance and exchange-driven exports through new sea cables, with sky-high prices as a consequence. And in winter and last autumn, the market forces have been raging with people. The electricity price crisis has made it necessary to work out better support schemes for people, so that the bill will be manageable for more people. As the Council of State was going on earlier today: the industry is still struggling. We've got solutions for people, but still the most important thing: long-term solutions. We need to take political control of power and ownership and governance, since the government today launched its new targets for sea winds. On the contrary, it is important to ensure also the community and ownership of the new force. But the power price cannot be met by a strategy that isolates itself to expand more power. There is also a need for strategic approaches to how we're going to use our valuable force. SV has for a long time invited the government to talks and negotiations aimed at taking political action and governance over the force. It must also involve controlling and limiting exports through the foreign tables and renegotiating the agreement with both Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. My question is: is the Council of State ready for that, to take political control of power now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e390	We basically have political control over our power. It's owned by the public and managed by the public, and it's really very good. We now have a power system that was initially introduced in 1991, with the new Energy Act. It has served Norway well in the period we've been in until now, but over the past three and a half years, we've had a power crisis that's very demanding, and it's going to reduce the possibilities if this is going to happen. Then we have a dramatic backstop that also affects this – the war in Ukraine and Europe's phasing out Russian oil and gas. We have to sort of go through the situation we're in now, with a little bit of new eyes, and we do. We have already started, put down an energy commission to come up with good measures to ensure that we have sufficient reasonable force even in the continuation. We evaluate winter in winter, just to see if there are other things we should have done in relation to the situation that was. Then, in addition, we have launched the sea wind effort, where we underline very clearly that this with energy security and the requirement for reasonable prices for households, industry and business is very important. I am very pleased with the cooperation SV and the government parties have had about the power support system, so that we reduce the electricity costs of ordinary people when prices are extreme. I am also pleased with the reinforcement that came through the negotiations with SV from the autumn, so I think it is good. In addition, we are now working on fixed-price contracts, expanding the opportunities offered by the power-generating industry, including other businesses and households. I think it might also be important grips. I'm willing to turn all the stones to get a better situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e401	I am pleased that the government is gripping it with open eyes. It must also be the ears, and they should be turned against the trade union movement, which requires precisely political control over the force. We are very ready to grasp that very cooperation and find the solutions in the layers. More social governance is needed by both State and Statnett. We also need to remove the stock exchange as an element, work out a two-price system and not least take control and limit exports. Then I want to go back to my question. In concrete terms, how will the government meet the invitation SV has just to do what the movement of labour has been so good at, take political control, build societies, use the power as the important resource it is for our society – not export rather than social building?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e408	I have a very overall goal, and that is that Norway is still going to be the industry's first choice, lay the groundwork for investment, make sure that we get new, exciting green solutions in the industry, with battery factories, green hydrogen, etc. I would like to stress that the picture is not black and white. When we hear and listen, it's important that we also keep it in our head and try to make thoughtful decisions. The power system we have has worked well for 30 years, and that has made us make good use of the investment. We have had Europe's lowest electricity prices from 2011 to 2020, and I believe that this should be a basis for us to continue. So seeing how the system we've had works, whether there's any things it should be corrected for, is important. We're doing that work and we're really looking forward to the discussion about it in the future. They really want stability and predictability as a basis for investment and safe Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e415	Then we move on to the next main question. There is reason to believe that the Council of State may stand still.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e420	To be merciful, I'd like to give the Council a break, but if it's Question Time, it's Question Time, so the question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. If we go back a little bit in time, to the spring of 2020, when the corona wave hit, a so-called oil tax package was introduced in this room. The Solberg government provided a fairly sober and neutral tax package. She was given significant amounts of steroids in the treatment at Stortinget, especially driven by the party to the Council of State, the Center Party and the Advance Party. The oil price, which one was concerned about then, came up quickly, to say it carefully, and is now record high. Now there is a grin along the entire coast, and engineers, technologists and others who could have spent time optimizing and reducing the costs of marine wind projects and hydrogen production are very busy. What they're busy with is to set a deadline for getting tax subsidies to a number of development projects. Reviews now show that many of the projects applied for are socio-economically vulnerable, but become economically viable due to the tax package. Despite the fact that it's question time, I'm not going to be too high and dark in the question, precisely because this was a tax package that was attached with a wide majority on Stortinget, including the existing government parties. I would rather invite the Council of State to reflect a little about how he thinks that this, the affair we experienced, is in retrospect. The reality is that all that the government is talking about is that they're going to be made of technology development, renewables and sea-window construction. How does the Council of State think that this is ex post?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e432	I am pleased that the representative Rotevatn acknowledges that the Left was also part of the “steroid” environment in the Stortinget at the time the oil tax package was adopted. I believe that the oil tax package has meant that we have managed to further develop the Norwegian oil and gas industry. We've managed to keep the activity up in the Norwegian yard. People have stood up in the morning and been safe that they have a job to go to, at a time when these jobs would not have been there if the oil tax package had not come into place. At that time, the yard industry had reduced its workforce, and one had cut out many skills jobs as a result. What I think is very good about the oil tax package is that it allows us to maintain activity during a period when the activity – at least a lot of it – would not have been there without it. Now we're able to maintain the activity until we get started with ocean winds. At that time, at a time when the consequences of the oil tax package, with security for people and jobs, will be phased into the yard industry, the environments of competence, engineering, etc., so that we can maintain activity even after 2027. I think that is a good consequence of the oil tax package that we have made. In addition, Stortinget has strengthened the climate ambitions of the oil and gas industry in relation to the oil tax package. It's a goal the government is holding on to. We're going to reach 50 pst. emissions cut in 2030. I believe that sea wind, as a consequence of it, can also help to facilitate good solutions, certainly along with other measures that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e439	The climate target mentioned by the Council of State has probably caused the government itself considerable doubts in retrospect, both in general and in relation to the issue of electrification. But that's it. In this package, there are now a number of projects that were not yet viable and which are not now socially viable but which are still likely to be developed. One of them is the Wisting project, which will be the northernmost oil field in the world – in a vulnerable natural area. There is no field to produce gas, which the government prefers to talk about, and which – quite correctly – can replace coal. This is going to produce oil. When Prime Minister Støre reaches 80 years of age and we hope to have some windmills going up, this oil field will still last and go until he reaches 98 years of age. Then we are far past the climate neutrality target that the government says will apply to 2050. This field will be closer to Bear Island than Hammerfest, in an area without infrastructure, and was initially removed because it was not profitable. Now it'll be profitable. How does the Council of State view this as a step in the green shift, which the government is talking about, where nature is the frame of everything a drift with?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e448	I believe that Norwegian socket and Norwegian oil and gas industry have many qualities, and many interesting and important projects have been developed in connection with the oil tax package. The Wisting field is an important find, which we want to develop. It is going to happen with power from land and will have low emissions during the production phase. We are actively decarbonizing energy use overall, but the world will need oil and petrochemical activities that enable us to transform this into materials, and that allow us to surround ourselves with dolls that not least people in Norway enjoy. One has to insert it into that context as well. I am dedicated to being able to meet the climate obligations that are. I am concerned that we should be able to handle Norwegian pedestal in a good way and that we should contribute to the transformation of the European energy system. But there will be a need for inputs that we will also need to deal with in the low-carbon society by decarbonising energy use.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e455	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e460	It's a mystery to me how a clean oil field, which is going to produce up to 2058, is going to contribute to what the Council of State calls the 'conversion of the European energy system'. As far as I know, there is no one in the European energy system who is now planning to replace coal power plants with oil power plants, or something similar. Yeah, one could have taken that discussion around gas, but that's not what we're talking about here. It is then so far and so far from existing infrastructure that it will be terribly expensive and not least frighteningly risky. Now the council is going very far in saying that this is a project they want to welcome, which they want to build, and justify it, among other things. that one should have power from country to country. Power from land is good and good, because a cutout from production – there is no gas here either – but this is an area where we need power, among other things. to electrify the LNG system on Melkoya, which has one of the largest point emissions in Norway. They need power to electrify. Then the question becomes: If the force they should use is to operate an oil field far from sea, where should the new force come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e467	Fortunately, North Norway has good power resources available. There is also great eagerness to contribute to new power generation in North Norway. That is what I think is exciting for the development of the continent – it offers new opportunities, it provides security for work, etc. Developing the Barents Sea is also exciting. It's part of a north-eastern perspective that I think is important. Energy markets are going to change very much, among other things. how we use energy. I think we'll be able to technically solve some of the challenges that are involved in decarbonizing this as well. I would like to stress that there is no one in the EU or Europe who is discussing the phase-out, for example. petrochemical or other important oil input industries today. What you're talking about is that there's a great need to ensure the stability and security of its energy supply. Then gas will be an important solution to it for a long time. When gas is converted into blue hydrogen, if appropriate, it will be an important contributor to the European electricity system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e481	My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality. In the NRK's News Morning on Monday Anne Bolsø told how her husband stood at the top of a mountain and wanted to take his life. He was gambling and after some years of ups and downs lost finally Anne Bolsø and their two children's husband and father. In the same case, the lottery department of gambling states that knowledge that is research-based is incredibly important. They indicate that Norwegian Typing has a unique position internationally with exclusive rights to many different types of games. It gives Norsk Tipping an additional responsibility to contribute openly and actively to sharing data, says the Lottery Authority. This report was about the fact that SPILLFORSK at the University of Bergen wanted to investigate whether different life events can negatively affect gambling behaviour – different life events such as: mental and somatic disorders. Norsk Tipping wouldn't do that. Good research on the North's gambling habits is important in order to succeed in a game policy that prevents gambling problems and gambling addiction. Norwegian Typings no cooperation has stopped several important research projects at one of our main centres of expertise for gaming research. Norwegian Typing's reason for refusing to participate is that there are privacy and consent challenges. According to SPILLFORSK, it is more about the fact that it is resource-intensive, but not impossible to achieve this. I understand that facilitating the sharing of important data with research projects can be resource-intensive, but as an exclusive right provider in Norway, it should be a priority task. What does the Council of State think about the fact that important research institutions experience the collaboration with Norsk Tipping as challenging, as they have said, and that this can prevent us from getting good knowledge that can both protect vulnerable players and perhaps also save lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e496	I also read the article, it was a heartbreaking and bad story to read. Unfortunately, we get from time to time, quite often – too often – read stories about people who have gone down, played from house to home, had to leave marriage and in the utmost consequence take their lives because they have serious gambling problems. That is why the fight against gambling addiction is extremely important, and that fight is leading the government along many tracks. It's hugely important. The whole bottom plan of being able to keep down gambling addiction is about preserving and strengthening the exclusive right model that Norsk Tipping has, a model that the representative's party also challenges in several ways. We're standing close to it. In the current year, we're spending a lot of money on just research into gambling behavior because technology is developing rapidly. You go with a potential slot machine on the smartphone in your pocket all the time, and studying people's gambling behavior is hugely important. That's what we're going to do this year's record money through the games. Then it's quite clear that Norwegian Typing as an exclusive right provider and the real machine of competence in games and people should, of course, share their knowledge, so that you can better combat gambling addiction. But then what the representative says, Norsk Tipping even in these cases, says that it goes for privacy reasons. But this is what I'm following up in my and the department's dialogue with Norwegian Typing all the time, and that's what we're going to be looking at, because it's absolutely right that Norwegian Typing should be able to provide important information, so that research environments get a bigger job done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e505	Let me just first correct: the right is behind the exclusive model and has in no way challenged it. It is the interpretation of the Council of States, and I completely disagree with that. But as I mentioned in my question, Norwegian Typing has repeatedly stopped important projects, and it feels that cooperation is challenging. It's not that it's not possible, it's that they don't want to spend resources on it. In the setting of the new Money Gambling Act, we mentioned this, and we believe that Norsk Typing and Norsk Rikstototo will have to participate in important research projects from recognised environments in Norway in the future to provide us with the research-based knowledge base that we need. And as the Council of State had in mind, in a new regulation on gambling there is a provision that information can be provided, but it does not change the current situation – they can do so today too – but I agree that it is a signal. And hopefully, the provision in the regulation will help our researchers access the necessary data more easily, but it should not be necessary to wait until the regulation is adopted to achieve it. Will the Council of State contribute to their access to ongoing projects at present?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e512	First of all, it's too tempting to comment that it doesn't keep saying that you're behind the exclusive model when you're constantly challenging it with alternative policies in pieces and in parts. It's kind of like making cake. You could say it's cake, but if you've removed flour, milk and glaze, it's not cake. That's a little bit of the way the Right's attitude towards the exclusive model is So if we had imposed Norwegian Typing and shared all kinds of information in the new Money Gambling Act, it would have been a clear breach of the privacy considerations that a major technology company like Norsk Typing, who sits on so much information about us, can share. So this is a balance you have to take in the individual cases. I am, as the representative, concerned that Norwegian Typing will share where Norwegian Typing can share, and this is something we follow up in the dialogue with Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e520	I will protest against the Council of State's description of the Right-wing Policy. We have not removed flour, yeast or anything else in the exclusive right model, but I leave it, because that is not what this matter is about. I thank you for the answer, but I find it unfortunate that research projects do not have access. It's not about privacy that you can't take care of it. That's not what this is about. It's about resource considerations or political statements or statements from Norwegian Typing. I understand that the Council of State will not contribute to this research project either, which she has not done in the past. But when that doesn't happen, it's still useful, I think, to look at how we can strengthen this in the future. The consultation note states that data minimisation principles should be ensured, but it is also important to facilitate that we do not have delays or that resources become a question in the future. What can contribute to this is, for example: that Norwegian Typing obtains such consent in advance, so that this is clear. Will the Council of State take the initiative that data can not only be shared, but that it is appropriate, and will the Council of State also consider strengthening the provision to strengthen the signal?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e529	Well, the right is challenging the exclusive right model with its practical policy when you want to constantly turn on parts of it, such as the possibility of allowing licences, such as making your own proposals in relation to the limits of games, etc., but leave it down. It is not that I do not want to contribute to research projects, and I can only assure the representative that Norsk Tipping has no political opinions. Norwegian Typing is set to manage the Norwegian gaming monopoly. And when Norsk Tipping says that in the individual case they cannot share information because it's about privacy, we have to base it on it. But I've said that this is something that we and I in the department follow up in our governance dialogue with Norwegian Typing, and yes, I'm going to take a new round and discuss it with them, so that we can understand how to contribute to important research in a flexible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e536	Turid Kristensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e541	I think it's a little premature that the Council of States is standing here and claiming that the Right's policy on the exclusive model is something other than what it is. We have not proposed, if necessary, granting licences. We have not proposed to turn things on, other than what is there today, and as EEA law has not challenged that is problematic in Norwegian law. But once again: I choose to leave it. Otherwise, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State will engage in dialogue with Norwegian Typing, but I hope that she can also give some signals here today that that dialogue can start early, so that ongoing research projects may have access to the data they actually have the opportunity to access, which does not challenge privacy. Then I didn't fully agree if the Council of State responded to whether she would consider tightening up the provisions of the regulation sent to the hearing, because it says that you can share personal data. You can already do that today, so there's no tightening up, and when important actors experience challenges, I think it might be wise to consider sharpening them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e550	I think that's a little special, that the representative actually thinks that we should oblige Norwegian Typing to distribute personal information to research institutions. It is reasonably special, and it does not put the privacy of the driver’s seat – and so it must be. This is information about people on whom Norsk Tipping sits, and concrete assessments need to be made on a case-by-case basis. I have said that in our governance dialogue with Norwegian Typing we are concerned that Norsk Typing as a competence environment and technology company should contribute to the development and research in the field of games. I'm dealing with this with Norwegian Typing, but it's not relevant to make a regulation where we're going to oblige Norwegian Typing to share information.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e557	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e562	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. For many years, Norway has been working to become attractive for new start-ups of the power-processing industry. In recent years, this work has produced results, and we see companies in the fields of battery production, data storage and other business that want to establish, much because of access to reasonable power. Norway has always had access to sufficient and reasonable renewable energy. This situation has now changed, and we sometimes have Europe's highest prices. The NVE reports that the power surplus in Norway will be almost gone by 2026. This could quickly lead to the stable establishment of high prices of power in Norway, and the attractiveness of the establishment of new industries will diminish. We know that it is added up to different new power generation, most of this will be available in time, and at least much later than in 2026. How does the government now work to reduce prices and maintain Norway as an attractive country to establish new industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e569	I am concerned about exactly what the representative is asking for, that Norway should be the industry's first choice. We're going to develop new industrial opportunities. The basis for this is sufficient amounts of new or more renewable energy at reasonable prices to enable industry to invest, not least in the green shift. Then we're doing a lot of things now to get more knowledge about the situation, how power exports work on prices, how it affects energy security, etc., and we're going back to Stortinget with as fast as possible. So we have now taken concrete action to bring more power into the Norwegian power system, not least what has been presented today related to sea wind. We have re-examined the concession treatment of wind power on land where the municipalities give their consent to it. Perhaps wind power on land is one of the simplest and cheapest forms of energy in relation to its short-term solutions. We have a surplus of power today, so that's the basis for establishing this, but we have to do several things at the same time. I guess it's not the NVE who said we're moving towards a power loss in 2026, it was Statnett who said that. What's important is that one will also be able to expand the web faster than what we're doing today. There was a power supply that is now going through concessional processes, if we can do this faster. That report will be published in June. I'm going to follow it up very quickly, because that's the prerequisite to succeed both in getting more power into the system and in providing a basis for industrial investment. One of the things that might be the largest brake block right now is access to the network and network capacity. We have to do something about that, and we should work fast with it for the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e578	I thank you for your answer. I am absolutely sure that the Minister has an equally strong desire to succeed on the side that the Progress Party and I have. But I'm a little worried, because we know that the ocean wind is essentially the answer today almost independent of what the question is. That's what's going to solve all the problems, but we know that this is far ahead of time. The problems for Norway are soon to come. Hydropower, small power, is really the great potential in a short time, but one fails to answer it. One says wind on land, of which we know there are very limited quantities. We have to fix the net, we have to fix our power, and it is not sea wind that is the solution. But I would like to answer at the same time on electrification of the socket: Is it still relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e583	It's absolutely topical, and it's very important that we stick to it. That is the basis for not least the commitment of the oil industry to our maritime window building. It is also the basis for the future of the oil and gas industry when we think that we need to meet our climate commitments that are there to reduce our emissions. Then the ambition and the goal are clear and clear: 50 pst. by 2030 and net zero in 2050. That's the basis. It is involved in developing the oil and gas industry, not liquidating it – which I gradually understand that the Progress Party really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e594	My question goes to the Council of State Twinner Reim. The world is in the midst of a food crisis. The UN states that record numbers of people suffered from food shortages in 2021, and the situation has been exacerbated by the war in Ukraine, which is one of the world’s major producers of sunflower oil, maize, sugar, wheat and rye. Production, however, is not the whole problem. The United Nations reports that some 25 million tonnes of cereals remain in Ukraine, and the Minister for Development said during the annual development policy Questionnaire last month: ‘The acute crisis can be resolved through humanitarian action and good international cooperation because food is there, but prices and availability are the problem.’ I share the Council of State's assessment, but I call for concrete measures. Ukraine's president, Zelenskyj, says that Russian food blockade prevents the transport of Ukrainian products. Ports such as Mariupol can no longer be used because of Russia's ruthless warfare. My question is therefore: is Norway taking part in initiatives to find alternative solutions to transport cereals from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e608	I would like to thank the representative for raising this matter. We are in a precarious situation, where we see in the short and long term that the war in Ukraine will have consequences for global food security. In the short term, one of the challenges is to free up storage capacity and get grain out of Ukraine, as the representative rightly points out. There is intense international diplomacy going on to find solutions to get this grain out, without me going into detail on the different solutions. But it's clear that in this situation, where the port of Odesa cannot be used, it's perhaps the most relevant option. Then I would like to stress that there are also other solutions to the short-term crisis. We know that other major actors and states also have significant stocks of cereals. It is important in this situation to ensure that trade and access to these stocks are maintained internationally. There we experience an intense pressure on these states from key actors, such as the United States. UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e615	Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau stated on Sunday that he will contribute to finding alternative solutions for the transport of Ukrainian cereals to precisely remedy the food crisis in the world. We know that some supply of grain from Ukraine has been so far unloaded through rivers and black sea ports in Romania. There are such solutions Justin Trudeau referred to when he also visited Kyiv. Will the government engage in dialogue with Canada to assess Norwegian participation in the Justin Trudeau initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e620	I'm not in the position to comment on the concrete initiative from Canada. What I can say is that we are in dialogue with international organisations and actors who are looking at solutions for the transportation of stocks that are still inside Ukraine. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that there are other measures Norway can do to ensure that further harvesting in Ukraine is ensured. Among other things, the government has recently contributed significant funds to provide Ukrainian farmers with access to seeds and fertilizers as well as diesel to logistics, in order to use the few weeks remaining of spring sons in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e627	There will be follow-up questions - Injerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e632	50 million. kr has gone to Ukrainian farmers. This week it was announced that the government was allocating an additional 285 million. through the UN Food Programme for action in countries other than Ukraine. In practice, this is a nearly full reversal of the government's cut in the appropriations we proposed today. Our increase was first deflected by 200 million. D in the government's draft budget and also cut further by 120 million. kr following the budgetary agreement with the Socialist Left. Does the Council agree that the late Norwegian decision on increased appropriations has deprived the UN food programme of the necessary flexibility in its response to the global food crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e639	The government was very early to grant 2 billion. extra humanitarian efforts in Ukraine to ensure that the acute crisis that would not eat from humanitarian appropriations for other crises in the world. The government has managed to mobilise rapidly, and is also clear that just humanitarian efforts to ensure food security, among others. through the WFP, is highly prioritised in the crisis we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e644	The oral question procedure is now over, and we go to case no. 2, regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e658	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Sofie Marhaug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, by Mr Elvesuen's representative to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food who is directing him. Questions 25 and 26, from the representatives of Mari Holm Lønseth and Mudasar Kapur respectively to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and District Affairs, have been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare, who will address them. At the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the questions were moved and answered in response to question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e676	‘The Minister of Finance has stated that inflation may occur if one cuts the fuel charges. Can the Council explain how tax cuts on fuel are considered as "money consumption"?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e683	Changes in tax rules that weaken the income side of the State budget and are not matched by expenditure reductions will, in isolation, result in an increased deficit that needs to be financed by a transfer from the State pension fund abroad, i.e. increased oil money use. A tax reduction is seen as an expansive economic policy. Although fuel tax reduction may lead to a price decrease, such policies could further strengthen the wage and price pressure in the economy through increased revenues in the private sector. The risk of increased use of oil money leading to further wage and price pressures is particularly high in a high economic cycle where resources are already very scarce. The extent to which a tax reduction on a good is reflected in the price of the consumer depends, inter alia, on: of market conditions. If the goods are scarce and the demand is high, it is unfortunately less likely that the price to the consumer will fall even if the charges are reduced. In this way, the tax reduction will instead result in increased prices and revenues for the producer. If the tax reduction goes through in the prices of households, the purchasing power of households alone could increase. It can give rise to increased demand in the economy and higher prices of other goods and services in the longer term. In the interest rate setting, Norway’s Bank looks at the underlying price increase. The main indicator for underlying inflation is KPI-JAE, which is the consumer price index adjusted for tax changes and without energy prices. Reduced charges on e.g. fuel will not reduce this target for underlying inflation, rather, if it fails, purchasing power on a tax reduction can help Norway’s Bank to set interest rates more or faster than they now see. ‘If there is a prospect of more sustained price growth, interest rates may be set faster than the interest rate forecast in the previous monetary policy report,’ wrote the central bank in a press release on its last interest rate decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e695	In a previous question, there was also a focus on money use. In retrospect, we've seen 38,076 farmers get a warrant for 11 billion. kr. It is also significant use of money. It was also said that there was no further risk that companies would go bankrupt and that there was a positive impact on the market. Following that question, the Director of the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, MEF, went out and said: MEF has 2,300 member companies that employ about 40,000. In a very recent member survey on 4 May, two thirds of enterprises say that they are planning to scale down the number of enterprises, permits and, in the worst case, cancellations of additions by 2022. Has the Minister of Finance talked to the member companies of MEF and checked whether there is actually a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e704	I have worked in some member companies of MEF and have very close contact with the owner and in practice I am also the managing director of that company. I know that industry very well, at least the smaller actors – how vulnerable things are, and how dependent you are on the different economic cycles. It's an industry that's vulnerable and incredibly important. One of the things they're vulnerable to is the interest rate on self-financing of their own business, there are many who also have quite large capital costs there. In addition, it is also important that individuals and businesses dare to invest. For many of the smaller enterprises in the MEF, there are just many of the small tasks, the sum of the small tasks in the community, that create activity. Therefore, very high interest rates for the entrepreneurial sector are one of the most vulnerable things, just as it is for private households. It is, of course, a very important industry, and it is important that we have stability in the economy and in economic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e709	Interest is probably important, it's important for everyone, but there's a whole different point. The director goes on to say: these are the companies, the employees, who build, bridge and keep at the same time, who provide for street lights, plan plots and land on school buildings and other infrastructure, bombs in mountains, clears forests and takes care of waste. If it goes away, is one of the backbones of Norwegian business gone, says the Managing Director of MEF, Julie Brodtkorb. The Minister of Finance, through his agricultural policy, shows that he understands that an extreme increase in fertiliser prices requires action from the state. There is no difference between the MEF members. They are in a crisis because diesel prices are increasing extremely, she goes on to say. Is it then that fuel prices aren't important, interest and everything else are important, and that what the MEF says here, is wrong? Is that what the Minister of Finance really means?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e718	The government is very busy keeping the wheels going and also making sure that we carry on what we see now, that we have record low availability. There's never been more Nordics in the job than it is right now, there's a record in the number of Norwegians who go to work every day, and we're aiming to beat that record, that it's going to be even more. It's also one of the challenges. Machine contractors are an incredibly important industry and have some complex challenges. One of the challenges they have also seen, including: companies with which Roadcover has gone out are the challenge of recruiting professionals. It is a very mixed situation also for some of the machine contractors to be able to get enough and qualified professionals. Nevertheless, each enterprise must be taken seriously. Something that can be vulnerable is if too many brakes are put on so that too many projects, especially in the private sector, stop. A great many of the small actors are particularly dependent on many small private assignments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e728	‘In order to reduce costs by the high power prices, the government has chosen to introduce electricity support to households. The progress party would very much like to see power support also given to business, but the government should at least have boasted that they have done something about the high power prices. With the high fuel prices, however, the government has chosen not to do anything, but on the contrary has helped to increase the fees from 2021 to 2022. What is needed to ensure that the government will also take measures to mitigate the high prices of fuel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e735	First of all, I would like to thank the Progress Party for thinking that we have done something about the security system for electricity. The representative Steffensen even chose to call it "crushing" in the question – I was almost surprised when I read it. I think it was important to be able to mitigate the impacts of the strong growth we have seen in the international electricity prices, as well as in the Norwegians. It is also important that we also reduce taxes on electricity. What is important about that reduction is that it not only comes in those areas of the country where there is high electricity prices, it also comes in central Norway – because it should be a permanent change. The parts of the country that have had lower electricity prices this year have also benefited from the tax reductions we have made. In addition to reducing the taxes on electricity, we prioritised taking over the government power and the budget that the previous government, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, had agreed that we also set a lower level of fuel charges than the previous government proposed. We also set a lower charge on traffic insurance, and we increased the commuting discount for those who have a lot of transport in connection with the job. We also announced that we wanted to reduce prices by 30 pst. on all Norwegian ferries, and that we were to start free of charge during the year, and we have also spent the last week. So I mean that in sum, when we look at the tax and tax measures we did last fall, and also the grips we did to reduce transport costs, have a completely different direction than the previous government. We're going to follow that line in the future, because it's important that transport costs in Norway, which is so long, are not too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e746	I tried to boast, because I thought it might make it easier to get answers to the main question itself, but I noticed that I did not get it. I asked what it took to ensure that the government will also take measures to mitigate the high prices of fuel, and that the Minister of Finance chose not to answer. We record that the power bill can – and should – be compensated, but not the fuel bill. I wonder if the Minister of Finance can explain a little bit about what is the fundamental difference that it is okay to compensate for electricity, but not for fuel, and whether he can say whether it is entirely unthinkable that the government will come up with measures against the high fuel prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e753	To answer the electricity question, it's because we see that the proportion of household income spent on electricity bills, with the high electricity prices at which it was due, had we not introduced the new scheme, had become very high. So that's that factor outside the interest rate that takes the most in. In a classic family, there are the two factors that are the greatest uncertainties. Therefore, that flow hedge was so important, for Norway is as it is. It was also important that we reduce the level of charges from what it was under the Right and the Advance Party, because we did not only intervene in the areas of high electricity prices, we also intervened in the areas of low electricity prices, such as electricity prices. in central Norway. Then we also thought in the Center Party and the Workers' Party that the level of fees proposed by the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left on fuel was too high. That is why we reduced the fees, in addition to cutting the commuting discount.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e760	The council says that there was something about electricity because it was such a significant sum for households. But for businesses, e.g. in the construction industry, which was also in the previous round of questions, we see that they are now experiencing increased prices of explosives, concrete, steel and electricity, and not least on diesel, and they are afraid that if nothing is done, it can go against permits, redundancies and, in the worst case, bankruptcies. They say, among other things: even that in some cases they work for free because they are already on public contracts that are tied up with prices that they are not allowed to do. Then I wonder if the Council has assessed a crisis package for that industry, to compensate for the increased costs, or if you intend to do so, for example. The Prime Minister of France, who has sent letters to public agencies to attend to change contracts concluded in order to reduce the costs to businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e767	As I said before, one of the most important things for very many entrepreneurs now is that we are able to keep the wheels running, that individuals dare to make small investments, and that small businesses dare to make improvements in their business. One of the biggest challenges for the many thousands who now have to make decisions about what they're doing is the fear of interest. Therefore, it is important that we conduct a responsible economic policy that allows people to see that economic policy does not strengthen the interest rate path further than that envisaged by the Bank of Norway or that the international factors also strongly influence the Norwegian economy. It is not least important for the construction industry, which is very dependent on business cycle. Then we're all busy having a living and good construction industry throughout Norway. It is an important and great industry that employs many people. There are many capable people there, and there are many people who have also started their own business, and as we see it now, is one of the major challenges for them that the Norwegian economy comes out worse through a higher interest rate increase than what is announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e785	‘In the wake of the winter’s detection of illegal fishing in Skagerrak, Red has proposed to work against the Danish authorities to combat illegal fishing. Has the work of stopping illegal fishing in Skagerrak started, and what will the Council of State do to stop illegal fishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e792	First, thank you for the question. The management of quinces and the fight against illegal fishing of quinces in Skagerrak are high priority issues both in the Department and in the Directorate of Fisheries. Fishing in the south of the 62nd parallel between 20 November and 31 March shall be prohibited. The fishing that has taken place during the conservation period is illegal, unlucky and incompatible with sustainable stock management, and we look seriously at the practice. The government is serious about the illegal seismic fishing in Skagerrak. I would therefore like to take this up with my Danish colleague, Rasmus Prehn, when I meet him on 7 June. I have also noticed the clear signal of the business committee in the matter. As I said in my answer to similar questions from the representative Geir Jørgensen on 7 April, during the period of conservation in the Norwegian economic zone, Kveitefangst has been illegal since 1979 and should thus be well known among fishermen who travel in this area. Infringements of the prohibition were handled by the Coast Guard, and two Danish vessels, which in winter had had a tail with start and stop in the Norwegian zone and had a larger quantity of halves on board, were notified and under investigation. It is also worth mentioning that the fishing for halves stopped after the Coast Guard focused on the matter around Christmastime in winter. Since direct fishing for Norway has taken place in areas of Norwegian and Swedish waters, it is of the opinion that additional protective measures put in place in Skagerrak are coordinated. In my view, lack of coordination is a weakness in the management of the stock. We have therefore signaled to the European Union at the level of office that we want to work together to strengthen the management of Kveite in Skagerrak. This issue is therefore on the agenda when the ministry meets the EU for annual consultations on Skagerrak on 19 and 20 May. Representatives of the Danish and Swedish fisheries authorities will also participate there, in addition to the European Commission. In a short time, the Directorate for Fisheries will submit to the consultation a proposal for new regulatory measures for the management of Norway's economic zone. The proposal will preferably have an effect on fishing for halves north of 62th latitude, as a targeted seine fishery south of it is operated to a very small extent. However, the regulatory proposals will also be able to lead the management of kwette in the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e805	Thanks for the answer. I am glad that there seems to be movement in this matter. An organisation called environmental crime by the WWF and in March this year the Union for the Conservation of Nature (Fund) has been committed to prohibit bottom irradiation in this marine area. The Norwegians are a very special sea area with very many species. The question to the Council of State will then be: Is it considered to prohibit soot irradiation in this area when a new Skagerrak agreement, if any, is to be renegotiated?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e810	The fact that we have the opportunity to operate a cross-border fishing where one trawl can be launched in one economic zone and dragged across the border and into another is a unique scheme for Skagerrak. This means that vessels can beam above the zone boundary without raising the trawl. No notification is required for border crossing and fishing start and stop, as otherwise in the Norwegian economic zone. This cross-border fishing is limited and Norwegian vessels account for only a small number of halves. Nevertheless, the possibility of operating such a cross-border fishing effect for control in general in Skagerrak, and I think I would say this: it is perhaps the biggest challenge we have to enforce and operate control. Norway has over several years addressed the need for better control of cross-border fisheries vis-à-vis the EU and bilaterally with the fisheries authorities in Denmark and Sweden before this government joined, and this has so far failed to provide good solutions. I have therefore raised the matter this week with the European Commissioner, Sinkevi?ius, and I will re-examine the matter with the Danish colleague when we meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e819	I would like to take this opportunity to do something rare: to praise the Fisheries Council for keeping Norwegian-Russian fishing cooperation outside the EU sanctions package. When the Business Committee visited Brussels last week, we were informed that due to Brexit, the EU has weakened its position in fisheries and the United Kingdom has stepped up. In this context, a greater pressure and a more difficult negotiating partner can be expected, i.e. more difficult negotiations with the EU in the field of fisheries, as they have come out worse now. Does the Council of State see in any way that these things can be involved and complicate new agreement on a better agreement on fishing practices in Skagerrak?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e824	Now maybe the representative is a little bit on the side. I would like to stress that Norway has had a crystal clear line throughout the Ukraine crisis. We cooperate with our neighbouring countries, we cooperate with the EU, and we introduce the strictest sanctions in history against any single country. Every time we have implemented these sanctions packages that the EU has decided, we have made assessments of the need for Norwegian adaptations. Fisheries cooperation is important for Norway; good management of the fish stocks in the Barents Sea is a fundamental Norwegian interest. If they are put into play, it could be a major problem for the fishing industry and for communities along our entire coast for many decades. As far as cooperation with the EU is concerned, I feel that we have good talks, but the agreement underpinning cross-border fishing has been dealt with here in Stortinget, and it is an agreement that we have with the EU based on an old agreement from the 1960s with Sweden and Denmark. [[The President clubs.]] So here's the challenge to tackle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e831	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e839	‘The Council of State has recently stated that the government’s food security strategy is now being rolled out. Will the Council of State ensure that this strategy reflects new needs for global food production in the light of the growing global food crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e846	Yes, we are in a time of crisis, but there are several crises at once – climate crisis, pandemic, food price crisis, energy crisis, fertilizer crisis, while at the same time having war in Europe, with great suffering, humanitarian challenges and consequences for the global economy. I have explained to the government the priority of food security on previous occasions and pointed out how we adapt this commitment to a changing world. Development policies shall be a policy for the future and for societal change. Then the consequences of crises, conflict and war today will also affect how we work with food security in the coming times. The government will launch the announced food campaign early in the fall. The main problems of food safety are not only related to food production itself. The world is producing enough today to feed everyone, but there are major challenges in distribution and different purchasing power in the world. The result is chronic hunger for millions of people. The long-term challenges are even more complex. With less access to fertilizers, we know, for example. that agricultural production in Africa can be reduced by 20 pst. this year. The African continent imports food for about 50 billion dollars. dollars a year. High costs of imported food therefore demonstrate the need for an increased focus on strengthening Africa’s own food production. The government works, among other things: to increase local climate-adapted food production. About 70-80 pst. by the world's poorest living in rural areas in developing countries. These are the ones that are now being hit hardest. We know that peasants produce 80 pst. of all food consumed in developing countries. That is why we are giving priority to this field. Our efforts should help small farmers to produce food both for themselves and for local markets. The increase in value from processing must benefit local communities. Local and regional value chains need to be strengthened. Excess production must reach markets, and food losses and losses at all stages must be drastically reduced. According to the World Bank, spending on growth in food-producing sectors, such as agriculture and seafood, is two to three times more effective, whose objective is poverty reduction, than investing in growth in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e859	During the Norad event «Number counting 2022» yesterday the Minister for Development stated: ‘We are now working on a new and enhanced food stack. It shall be submitted early in the autumn and supported by the draft budget for 2023.» Many crises despite and in the light of the fact that we are in the midst of a global food crisis – can it be accelerated?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e869	The food security effort was stepped up with the first changes to the government budget made by the new government, with a significant increase. Both short-term humanitarian aid for food security and our efforts to facilitate increased climate-adapted productivity in African agriculture in particular will also be given economic priority in the current year. I would therefore like to say that this is ‘work in progress’, but the strategy itself will be presented early in the autumn, because we have extensive consultations with both international partners and not least Norwegian civil society. This does not prevent us from escalating our efforts through the budget even before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e874	I hear that the Council of State does not respond exactly to whether it can be speeded up. But I'm going to take another angle: in a press release this week, the government says it's making a reversal, i.e. a cut in the appropriations for the UN food programme. The government discloses: ‘An additional NOK 285 million is now allocated to the organisation’s work in other countries.’ I support this increase, but can the Council explain where the money is taken from?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e884	I refer to the fact that humanitarian action falls strictly within the constitutional sphere of the Foreign Minister, while, of course, coordinating closely both the short-term and the long-term efforts to increase food security. The adjustments in the current year's budget on humanitarian aid will also come back to us in the presentation of the revised national budget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e898	This question, from the representative of Sofie Marhaug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e910	This question, from the representative of Ola Elvesuen to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e918	‘The Solberg Government implemented several measures to simplify everyday life for families waiting or having children in need of complex services, inter alia, by simplifying documentation requirements. Does the Government intend to continue its efforts to simplify documentation requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e925	The government is concerned with simplifying the documentation requirements. This is important in many areas. In both transport, health, school and care services and other areas, families will benefit from the fact that documentation requirements are not an unnecessary burden. In other words, several governments in this government are involved in that work. We also work in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion with simplifications to make families who are waiting or have children with special needs easier to use. Many simplifications do not need legislative changes, and they are made by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare in the context of the development of nav.no, e.g. through multiple electronic applications and better application dialogue. Policy changes include: as regards the means by which documentation requirements are communicated and obtained, and the documentation required and how often. Better systems also allow more information to be reused — as long as this can be done within the framework of the Data Protection Regulation. However, other simplifications require changes to the law or regulation. It takes more time, but the government now has a consultation proposal for a number of amendments to Chapters 8 and 9 of the People's Security Act. Several of these involve simplifications. This applies, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the the proposal that, when one of the parents is alone in day-to-day care, the social benefits may be distributed between the parents by agreement. This makes life more flexible for parents who do not live together. proposal that parents no longer need to make written declaration to the Chamber of Labour and Welfare on the sharing of associations proposal to remove the specific documentation requirement for the first three calendar days of each case of absence for those receiving care directly from the seat of employment and welfare; proposal to clarify that the same medical statement can be used for all those who care for a relative at home in the final phase of life These proposals are wider than just families who have or will have children with complex needs, but will also benefit these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e949	I'm very happy that we share a common commitment. Some documentation requirements are necessary; others are not. The right made a number of simplifications, including: in the requirement for a medical certificate in the case of an application for a care allowance. This is how we save time and energy for families in an already difficult situation. As the Council of State was in the process, we need to consider in the future whether any documentation can happen less rarely, whether the number of submissions can be fewer, and whether we can be more good at using information across departments, so that families do not have to submit the same information several times. The aim must also be to avoid regular proof that permanent conditions remain. I see this as a reassuring statement from the Council of State that there will actually be concrete new simplifications for families. My follow-up question will then be: When can we expect the first concrete results to materialize?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e954	The proposals I presented are now being consulted. We will review the responses when they have been received and propose legislative changes where necessary. With regard to the governance dialogue we have with the Working and Welfare Act on the things I mentioned initially in my response, linked to the fact that there is not everything that needs regulatory change, it is both a continuous dialogue and a work that is already in progress. I am glad that we share this, and in the Equal Opportunities Reform, Meld. St. 25, as the previous government presented, is also mentioned. It also stresses the need for some documentation, precisely to ensure that those entitled to the service are given the service to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e963	I thank you for the answer and look forward to work and cooperation to simplify the everyday life of the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e971	‘In the context of inclusion, the Solberg government launched an individual job support scheme aimed at young people under 30 years of age with mental health problems and/or drug problems, also known as IPS Young. The aim was for more people in the target group to receive work-oriented follow-up in combination with healthcare treatment, to undertake education/learning and to enter normal work. The appropriations entered in the balance of the budget for 2022 provide a basis for continuing the experiment with the young IPS. How does the Council of State follow up this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e978	I would like to thank the representative Anna Molberg for the question. In the last ten years, the number of young people under the age of 30 who are temporarily or permanently out of work on health-related benefits has increased, and the number of young people who are disabled is more than doubled in this period. Psychiatric disorders are among the most common diagnostic groups, with a total of 70 pst. of all young people receiving redundancy benefits are now suffering from mental illness. The government wants to reverse this trend, and the Hurdal platform therefore contains targeted measures to enable more young people to use their skills in the labour market and to prevent the transition to sustainable benefits and exclusion. Individual job support, IPS, is an internationally recognised method of occupational rehabilitation and involves an integrated and simultaneous follow-up service from Nav and healthcare. IPS Young was, as mentioned here, established as an experiment in the autumn of 2021, and some legal issues were identified during the start-up phase, including: whether minors can consent to IPS Young on their own. The Ministry will launch legislative work to address the issues in more detail. The experiment is managed by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare in close cooperation with the Directorate of Health and is evaluated by the AFI. The target group is young people between 16 and 30 years of age with moderate to severe mental health and drug problems, with the aim of increasing numbers of people entering work, education or apprenticeships. There are 113 new job specialists attached to 43 health services. Registration of participants in IPS Young started in October 2021 and the number of participants has increased from about 384 participants at the end of 2021 to about 717 at the end of March 2022, according to manual reporting by the IPS offers. IPS Young is established in both mental health protection in the municipality and in several DPS, including FACT Young, and new collaborations with paediatric and juvenile psychiatric outpatient clinics have been established. The IPS Young is an important measure to enable more young people to complete education or training and get to work, and the experiment will therefore be closely followed up by the labour market authorities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e993	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying to hear that we share the concerns about these young people who simply do not find their place in school and working life. We currently have over 21,000 disabled people between 18 and 29 years of age, and this is a figure that just increases, which the Council of State was also in. One reason is that more people are being clarified more quickly, because the previous government that knew made some changes there. Another reason is medical progress, which means that more people simply survive and live longer. But a third reason is, as the Council of State had in mind, a large increase in mental illness among children and young people. This is a very frightening increase, and we are all concerned about this development. My question to the Council of State is: Should we do more to understand why this is happening? Should we do more to understand the underlying reasons why more young people are suffering from mental illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e998	The short answer is yes. I believe that follow-up research in this area is important, but I believe that it is also important to have knowledge of actions that work. Here I see the possibility that very many of those people can get into work or education and do well in life and stand on their own feet, and that will be important in itself. That is why I think IPS young people are an important measure, because it is precisely about the closeness and individual follow-up of the individual, and that it is a cooperation with both the labour and education sectors to achieve it. I think we share the objective, and then both knowledge and the concrete measures, getting more involved in this type of action, are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1003	I thank you for your answer. It is a large group of young people who complete high school, but disappear underground in retrospect, before they end up on Nav. Many of these young people stay at home, sit in the boy's or girl's room and do not have a meaningful everyday life. I record that we share the objective of getting more of these into meaningful work, but at the same time, many of these young people disappear from the statistics before they get into the Nav system. So my last question to the government is how the government follows this group of youths before they end up on Nav, and after they get out of high school. How can we better catch up with young people who stay at home without goals and meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1010	What the representative here is dealing with is a relatively complex problem, because adult people also have the right to choose for themselves. While children and young people attending school are being followed more closely through the general school and education provision as well as health services, adults are actually on their own. I think that giving the group that then falls outside, an individual and close follow-up from Nav and giving the Nav employees more confidence to use their professionalism to find good measures that suit the individual, is a very important work, as we do, among other things. Follow-up to the trust reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1018	"I have visited Bodil and Torgunn. Bodil's been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. Torgunn wants to have Bodil at home. Torgunn says that it is demanding to work with a spouse who is losing more and more sense of time and place. Bodil gets upset and walks when Torgunn is at work. The couple have applied for what is available through Nav and the municipality for income insurance, but they feel that they are not there. For neither care allowance nor care allowance, schemes are those that they can use. Will the Council of State help us to put in place schemes that allow young people with Alzheimer's to be able to stay at home with their closest friends instead of risking being placed in an institution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1025	The Government wants to improve the legislation on family leave in order to ensure equality and the ability to combine work and care. We're doing this. Among other things, we have I had a meeting with the Family Alliance, which gave us a lot of insights about this. It is not a matter of finding solutions that are good both for the caregivers, for the relatives, for employers and for society as a whole. We will see this in a larger context that we want older people and other caregivers to be able to live safely at home. When adults need special supervision and care, it is primarily the municipal care and care services to provide it. The services shall be provided at home as far as possible and at the request of the caregiver and the family. In addition, the municipality has an obligation to provide a care assistance scheme. Care assistance may replace or supplement the other municipal services when a related provider provides care and care that the municipality would otherwise provide. This is not apparent from the question why this is not a possible solution in this case. I am aware that my answer does not solve all Bodil and Torgunn's problems here and now. At the same time, I can assure you that we will work to put in place schemes that allow young people with Alzheimer's and others who need care to be able to live at home with their closest friends instead of risking being placed in an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1036	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Torgunn and Bodil live with this every day. The challenge is that you feel that it's pretty unfair, because what's the alternative is that Torgunn can get sick, that she'll eventually go over to the AAP, and she'll eventually get dissatisfied, while in a few years she might actually be able to work, because Bodil might need an institution place. But it will be very bad both for Torgunn and not least for society, because then you send some very bad signals from here, from the public. I think it's good that the Council of State says that this is something she wants to look at, but I hope that you do this quite quickly, because we've seen a trend in recent years – that more and more young people are becoming demented and getting Alzheimer's. It's a completely different challenge than it might have been before, when it was older. So I still want to challenge the Council of State in some time perspectives. How long do you think it'll take to get some solutions in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1045	As I said in my answer, we now look at this. But there are also some challenges to this. There are a lot of complex issues that we're going to find a common solution. This applies to those who are in need of care, but also to those who are relatives and their relationship to the labour market, to employers as such, and to society as a whole. We want to see this in a larger context that we want the elderly and other caregivers to be able to live safely at home as long as they want. I want to add that the primary scheme is municipal welfare benefits, and since I do not know this specific case well enough, I do not know why this may not be relevant in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1052	Yeah, that's probably the way care pay is a municipal system. It's a rights-based system that you should be able to get, but then it's very different from the municipality to the municipality to what extent you have resources and opportunities to use that system. In this case, both the municipality, Nav and the state administrator have been challenged – all the public schemes have been tested and looked at the possibility of. But that's how none of them will be able to work for this family. That's what's so frustrating. I get the same feedback from others who feel that one party becomes demented when one is young, and that means that urgent action is needed. I'm glad the Council of State says that this is something you're working on, that this is something you have to look at. For Torgunn, Bodil and all the others who would like to be together the time you have, when you're still so healthy that you can be together, it's an important value. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State that this must happen quickly, and I hope that the Council of State will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1057	As I have already said, I have to look at this. The reason I mentioned the care benefit scheme is precisely because it may be the scheme that is meant to take place in such a situation, where an adult relative takes care of an adult patient. In the case of care, these are primarily targeted at parents who care for children, who are valid until the child reaches the age of 18, or if you care for someone in the final phase of life. We must look at this, and we must see it in the context of existing schemes, but also ensure that the objectives we have in terms of care are achieved, including the possible new arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1066	‘Petering is an invaluable resource that makes an enormous effort for its neighbors. It's demanding too many over time. In the co-reform presented by the Solberg government last year, one of the main areas of action was the ‘Variety and inclusion of relatives’. One of the measures is the related programme, which is to be a learning tool for employees in the health care services of municipalities and health enterprises. How will the Council of States follow up the neighbouring programme, and what will the Council of States do to strengthen the work of caring for and including relatives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1073	The appropriations and actions under the related programme continued in 2020 as a central part of the government’s related strategy and action plan, ‘We – the relatives’. The strategy includes six areas of action and related actions, which in total contribute to raising the situation of relatives, and to ensuring and including relatives. I have entrusted the Health Directorate with the task of following up the strategy, so that the measures are phased into the planning period. One of the main actions pursued in the strategy is the grant scheme for comprehensive support for those with demanding care tasks. An important part of the strategy is that no child should have to take care of family or others. We will therefore strengthen the work of monitoring and caring for children and young people who are related. We look at the need to introduce an obligation for health and care services in the municipality to have child-responsible staff, and we are working to further develop the ‘Children under the radar’ action. The representative supervisor has been evaluated, and we have followed up the results in the form of concrete actions, including: by improving the guide and further developing healthnorge.no. One of the measures in the strategy is to develop a national user and family survey to gain knowledge about user-experienced service quality. We do that every year. The government is working on a safe home reform, with the aim of enabling older people to live safely at home, and providing family members with necessary and predictable support and relief. Related agreements with the municipality are an offer to relatives with particularly burdensome tasks. The government will further develop this tool so that this group of people can have the opportunity to plan their own lives, for example. by having good procedures for cooperation between relatives and health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1090	First, I would like to say that I think it is good for the government to continue the Solberg government's related strategy with an action plan. There were a number of important measures which were also addressed by the Council of State. It is important that these measures are initiated, because there are many relatives who experience a heavy load and who need to be unloaded. There are 800,000 relatives in Norway. There are many relatives who experience fragmented services where one becomes more vulnerable in an already very vulnerable situation. Then I have to say that when I read the Hurdal platform, I guess the ambitions there are not as high as relatives. I wish there was more there. But my follow-up question is: How has the government planned to strengthen concrete cooperation with the user and related organisations and volunteering? And how should we continue and strengthen support for relatives, in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1097	The government has started working on several reforms related to an important resource and is invited to work. We have started working on a reform that will make it safe for older people to live longer at home, living safely at home. People will have a central place in the work, because it is important to ensure that the relatives receive necessary and predictable support and download, and we will ensure that we receive input from relatives in the work on that reform. There we're doing an open and inclusive process, and we're inviting our own recording sessions both nationally and regionally over the course of the year. The results of the 2021 national relative survey will also be published soon. It's a study that gives a picture of relatives to the most vulnerable patient groups and their needs, and we'll follow up on what the study will provide us with new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1102	The related strategy of the Solberg government extends from 2021 to 2025. This means that many of these actions will be phased in during the time period to which the strategy and action plan relate. The Council of State was concerned that the Health Directorate has been given a mandate to follow up the action of the strategy. My last question to the Council of State is when one can expect that one will simplify the aid scheme as well as, among other things, the aid scheme. The Hurdal platform mentions, and is also an important measure in the related strategy to help relatives to obtain better support to be related, also facing the actual presence of the labour market at the same time as being a relative of their loved ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1107	I do not have a date for the representative, Svardal Bøe, considering how that measure stands today, but I will take that with me and follow it up. It is the Directorate for Health that has been commissioned, and they have also been informed that the actions of the strategy will be phased in gradually. So it's a mission that's given.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1115	‘Many families with seriously ill or disabled children experience that it is challenging to deal with the auxiliary system. They tell of an eternal struggle to get the rights they claim, and that they spend a lot of time and resources getting proper services for their children. This is why the Solberg government legislated the right to children's coordinator, so that this would be easier across services. How does the Council of State ensure that the municipalities are prepared for the entry into force of the statutory right to child coordinator?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1122	It is essential that the auxiliaries around the individual family who have children with severe illness or disabilities function well. Many of these families struggle to find welfare services, and they need better help and relief in a demanding everyday life. The Child Coordinator System can help these young people and their families to experience that society is setting up, that they are being taken care of and included. The coordinator’s guarantee will be important in order to relieve families, for example: to find out in all assistance services, to assist with applications and to ensure better coordination of welfare services. The child coordinator shall ensure that the family and the child receive a well-being service offer that is coordinated and comprehensive and that they are provided with the necessary information and guidance. The scheme will enter into force on 1 August of this year and the municipalities will be compensated for by 100 million. NOK 2022. The Directorate for Health, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare and the Directorate for Education have been entrusted with the task of developing a guide on the legislative changes proposed in the proposal. It is in line with proposals in Prop. 100 L for 2020-2021. The supervisor shall be completed in mid-September. In working with the supervisor, the Directorates should have contact with the municipalities. The same Directorates shall also carry out an evaluation of the cooperation and coordination provisions, including the Child Coordinator Scheme. The aim is to gain knowledge about how these measures work. Through both the appropriations for the municipalities and the supervisor that will come in September, I believe that the municipalities have the opportunity to be well prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1135	The council and I agree that it is good that the child coordinator gets in place. However, I am a little curious as to whether it is sufficient for a supervisor to arrive in September when this will start from August. Families waiting for children with a serious illness, injury or disability are also entitled to a child coordinator. So I also wonder how the Council of State will ensure that the families are aware of this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1142	It is important to have a good offer locally in the municipalities, meeting families who have children who are either seriously ill or in need of much help. I feel that is something the municipalities work with all the time. This is a legal right that the Stortinget has asked for, presented by the previous government. It is also the state budget for this year, for which the framework for the follow-up to this requirement has also been laid. – It is the progress that lies there, presented by the government I count on the representative Sandra Bruflot supported. In addition, through the supplemental letter, we have also strengthened the municipalities in this year's budget by 2.5 billion. kr. Here it is important that the municipalities work well together, and it is important that it is also followed up by these directorates, and that we evaluate this well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1151	I hope and believe that the municipalities are then ready to take the responsibility for the families who already have children with a serious illness or disabilities. However, I wonder if something special is being done to make sure that the families who are waiting for children with these challenges are also aware of their right from the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1156	There I believe that the changes such as The majority of the Stortinget made a contribution to the Biotechnology Act is important. Providing a good follow-up to pregnancy is important, so that early in pregnancy you can know what awaits both mother and family. Early ultrasound is now becoming a reality. It will be important for families who get knowledge that it can be a demanding everyday life for the child being born, that it is followed up with the municipality in which the family lives. So that's an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1164	‘One of the main objectives of the peer-to-peer reform is to create coherent and good services. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to harmonise the rules on individual levels and to assess the functioning of the scheme according to its objective. Training and competence of employees with the coordinator function are promoted as a challenge among users. How does the Council of State plan to assess whether an individual plan is working according to its objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1171	The size has adopted a number of legislative changes related to the individual plan in relation to the treatment of changes in welfare services legislation, Prop. 100 L for 2020-2021. The aim of the legislative amendments has been to harmonise the rules on individual levels so that the rules of the different laws are as uniform as possible. This shall help to ensure a consistent understanding of the legislation and to promote cooperation between services. Welfare services that do not themselves have an obligation to prepare an individual plan are now required to contribute to the plan. The aim is to bring these amendments into force on 1 August. The legislative proposal also proposed the introduction of a common regulation on individual plans to apply to all welfare services that are required to draw up such plans. I have followed this up and aim to establish such a common regulation on individual plans in a short time. The Health Directorate has been given the task of developing a guide on the legislative changes proposed in the proposal. This will be done together with the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare and the Directorate for Education. The supervisor shall be completed in mid-September. In working with the supervisor, the Directorates should be in contact with, inter alia: the municipalities. The same Directorates shall also carry out an evaluation of the cooperation and coordination provisions, including the Child Coordinator Scheme. The aim is to gain knowledge about how the measures work when they are put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1180	I am pleased that the Council of State is clear on how to follow it. I also think it is positive that it is done quite quickly. We know how incredibly demanding it is for many of them – not least the relatives – when it is not coordinated, and when you do not feel that everyone who should help, especially the coordinator function, is following up what is the individual plan, which is in a way the agreement between the parties. I would like to follow up by asking the Council of State about the following: Is it good with regulations and a supervisor, but will she also make sure that this is actually followed up in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1187	I will first answer how, as the responsible state council, I will follow it up. My task is to carry out the regulatory work and ensure that we have the authorities to ensure that this is properly practiced. Finally, how exactly does this turn out? Then I have to draw attention to the propositions that have been addressed by the Storting in relation to the refugee situation and migration. There, the Storting has agreed that these rights, the right to both an individual plan and a child coordinator, as the previous question I answered, apply, are rights you can look at if you get into a situation where health care is being burdened. What is right for me to prioritize is to ensure that regulations and what must be in place for the municipalities to fulfil their obligations are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1194	I respect it. At the same time, it is incredibly important that we be able to help better, and that services are better coordinated than they have been. The whole purpose of the co-reform is, of course, to be able to take on important new approaches in this area. Some of the points made are simply competence and training in the use of the ideal level and the coordinator function. Not so much a question, but more a note from my side: We will follow this up in the future too, because it is incredibly important that this is not set aside or not followed up in the municipalities. Good follow-up and coordination are essential for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1199	I fully agree with that, and in a normally transparent situation, I think it is very right to ask for this. But I don't think the Storting should be ambiguous either, because we've said that this is one of the things you can tolerate, that if there's an increase in the number of refugees coming here and you get a pressure on health care, you can deviate. But it is important to continue training, and the situation is very different from the municipality to the municipality. Some people don't have reception. When the refugees arrive, the reception and the first part are crucial. This is a challenge only when we have a large number of refugees. So I fully agree with the representative – it is important that there is pressure on this work, and that we move on to what is the aim of Stortingen, that we better coordinate services, and that we get a plan for the services and the treatment we receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1207	‘The government of Solberg set up a selection to look at how BPA can be designed as a gender equality tool. The committee delivered NOU 2021: 11 Self-governing is well-managed on 16 December 2021. This was sent to the hearing in March 2022. How should the Council of State continue to follow up the work of designing BPA as a gender equality tool?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1214	User-driven personal assistance, BPA, is an alternative way of organising practical and personal services for those with disabilities and a high need for assistance in everyday life. The Assistant Facility may be provided both inside and outside the home, and over time there has been an expectation gap related to what can be achieved by BPA within a given framework and legal regulation. In 2019, as the representative mentions, a sample was appointed to review and propose improvements to the BPA scheme. The committee delivered its investigation on 16 December last year. An important premise for the work of the sample was that BPA should be defined as a gender equality tool — not a health scheme. It is consistent with the Hurdal platform, where we will further develop user-driven personal assistance as an important tool to ensure participation and equality in society. As the representative is aware, the investigation was sent to ordinary hearings at the beginning of March. The consultation period is set at 1 July this year. I hope that everyone who has experience with the system from different points of view will contribute to the consultation round. I can promise that the statements that come in will be an important basis for our further work on how the system of user-led personal assistance can be better for those who use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1223	Thanks for the answer. I'm glad that the Council of State says she wants to continue working on it as an equality tool, because this is urgent for those involved. The mother of Hanne has a disability that makes her unable to attend parents' meetings without delay, to stand up as a cheerleader on the football field or to meet at work without the assistance of an assistant. She needs help to get up, dress up, drive to work the days she doesn't have a home office, and to be able to attend parents' meetings and do the same with the other parents in the class of Hanne. When the committee presented its position, unfortunately it was not unanimous, and a majority, 7 out of 13 members, took it to the position. So what is referred to as the selection proposal is a proposal from a minority rather than a majority in the sample – which is, of course, special in itself. In its work on the follow-up to the BPA Committee's investigation, will the Council of State focus on what the representatives of disabled people in the sample proposed, so that BPA will be designed as a gender equality tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1232	I want to underline the importance of a good hearing, and that we get a lot of input when the sample, as the representative rightly points out, did not give us any particularly clear recommendations. They were divided, and there were at least no clear recommendations in that NOU. The more important it is with a good hearing, and then we're going to process the hearings we get, and follow them up when the consultation period has expired. But there are a number of dilemmas about this arrangement. It's very good for the users, but it doesn't work well enough as an equality tool. There is also something about today's system that discriminates unfairly between disabled people and also different practices in different municipalities. So it's important that we follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1239	Yes, recently, the Council of State and I fully agree, but we may not agree with how clear the signals came from the sample. When a majority is aware that there is going to be a gender equality tool, I think that is what should be the starting point, and that you should not continue to deal with health legislation to the extent that you are doing. But all families are different, and everyone has different needs, as the minister said. Common to them is that they need assistance to get as normalized a daily life as possible – what we call a normal everyday life. Through the work on this matter, will the Council of State facilitate freedom of choice in the offer, that the logo on the T-shirt should not lead to what offers are given, but that the freedom of choice of users comes first? These are services that go into the individual's private life, in the individual's home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1246	What matters to the government in the further work is that we get a good user-driven system that ensures non-discrimination, is sustainable and can be practiced in the same way in most municipalities. In addition to that, I do not want to pre-empt any conclusions, but I think it is important that we have a good hearing, and that consultation deadline expires in July. We will then start working on the preparation and follow-up of recommendations both from the sample and from the consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1254	‘Does the Council of State intend to ensure that the 70 students who had started bachelor's education at Eötvös Loránd University in psychology at the time of the Norwegian change of practice for the approval of the study receive equivalent qualification to that of the students who took the master's programme, so that they can obtain an authorisation in Norway and start practicing as psychologists?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1259	The Health Directorate closed its authorisation in 2016 to persons with master’s education in psychology from Eötvös Loránd University, ELTE. The reason was that the directorate was made aware that master training did not qualify for self-employment as a psychologist in Hungary. The previous government chose to establish a qualification programme for those affected by the change in practice. People who had started master’s training before the change in practice were given the opportunity to participate. In total, approx. 200 completed the qualification programme, at a total cost of approx. 200 million. kr. As I have informed the Stortinget about in answer to written questions earlier, the government will not extend the qualification programme scheme to those who have started mastering psychology at ELTE, after the Health Directorate changed its practice. There may have been far more than those who took the bachelor's degree at ELTE who planned to complete the master's degree in psychology at ELTE. For example, most candidates who have participated in the qualification programme had completed bachelor’s training at institutions other than ELTE. A large proportion have Bachelor's education from Norway. It would be unfair for those who have completed the master’s training in psychology in other countries and who have complied with the health directorate’s change of practice if, following the change in practice, the 70 who chose to start master’s training at ELTE are offered a separate qualification programme. It is also important for me to say that it is not the case that those who have completed a master’s degree in psychology at ELTE have a professional ban or have to have a psychologist’s title in order to be able to work in mental health. There are a large number of Bachelor’s and Master’s courses in psychology, including in Norway, which do not qualify for a specific professional title. Those who are graduated from these different education courses make a very important contribution to Norwegian health and care services, in line with very many other professionals without a protected title.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1274	During the period 2003–2016, more than 60 master-trained psychologists from Hungary received a qualification licence, mainly in the form of a one-year guidance practice and then authorisation as a psychologist in Norway. In the past, the Council of State has not wanted to extend the scheme to those students who have started the bachelor's programme at ELTE because they have not formally started two years of master's education. Many of these have now completed the education cycle, but are not given the same opportunity to qualify as older students in Norway. The working party promised to find a solution to the matter. According to Khrono, the then big-time representative Kjerkol himself promised to find a solution in the summer of 2021. Will the Council of State do things right again, to make up for the false hopes that these students got when they made their choice for the career, based on the promise she gave?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1281	It is important for me to say that these candidates are wanted and have a competence for our healthcare needs, and they can work in healthcare in Norway today. Two courts and the EFTA Court of Justice have confirmed that the ELTE trainees are trained in a profession other than Norwegian psychological training. It's the facts that any state council has to deal with. For people who choose to start master training for various reasons after it became known that the Health Directorate changed practice, it was previously decided that they could not receive a qualification programme. I have a great deal of understanding that students find it challenging to deal with approval practices that change – I have a great understanding of that – but I think there is a limited room for action here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1288	What I hear now is that the Council of State does not comply with the promise she has made in the past. I have also checked this with regard to the professionalism up against EFTA. In sum, this is about the fact that the State Council of Kjerkol will not spend more money on getting the 70 psychology students authorized.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1293	This is a strawman's argument. You try to make a show and argue for it, but it's not true. After all, we have explored the scope that exists, and we believe that this is competence that is needed in Norwegian healthcare. Many will avail themselves of their skills without a protected psychologist's title. It is clear in two courts and the EFTA Court that these candidates have a different competence from that of Norwegian psychologists. There is something that has been decided outside the authority of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1301	‘The commercial company Aleris has been in the spotlight for gross corruption and crime at work. Now Aleris announces that they will build a new hospital in Bodø. The company itself says that the biggest growth in them is patients who pay for the services themselves — an offer for those who can afford it, in the state where it is most difficult to recruit health professionals. Is the establishment of new commercial hospitals a development the government wants, and is the Council of State concerned that it can strengthen the development of a two-part healthcare system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1308	This government wants a strong public health service for all, where money goes to healthcare, not to privatize, profit and benefit. A healthcare managed by the community and funded by the tax haven is essential in the fight against increased social and geographical disparities and against a two-way sharing of healthcare, as the representative points out. We have sent to the hearing a proposal to wind up the approval system for the free choice of treatment from 2023, i.e. to next year. The scheme has little achieved the objective of reducing waiting times or improving the effectiveness of healthcare. It has taken money from local hospitals and has mainly gone to private clinics in the East. Instead of this market model, this government wants to use the resources to strengthen our common healthcare system. Cooperation with private actors should be based on long-term agreements with a focus on quality. In the light of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Swedish Government, the Stortinget has asked the Government to set up a public body to investigate how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services and to provide a separate zero-profit model for each such sector. The government is working on bringing down this selection. I am concerned that it will establish cooperation with private and non-profit actors in the welfare sector in the best possible way, and that cooperation takes place on public premises. The forthcoming sample will address issues related to this cooperation in depth. It provides the basis for a good public debate on these issues. The Government has appointed a Health Personnel Commission to establish a broad knowledge base and to propose effective action in the years to come to train, recruit and maintain qualified health and care staff across the country to meet the challenges we face in the short and long term. The Commission shall also identify recruitment challenges in different parts of the country and their causes. It shall also assess and assess variations in challenges and solutions between urban areas and areas with low population density and long distances to regional centres. It is also important to prevent the development of a two-part healthcare system, both geographically and socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1323	I have to commend the government for starting work on completing the privatisation reform called free treatment choice, and not least for setting down a sample to look at the profits of commercial services. But the establishment of the hospital Aleris happens independently, and it happens today. It happens in that part of the country where we actually have the biggest challenges of recruiting health professionals. We have that problem all over the country, but especially in North Norway, recruitment of health professionals is particularly demanding. Aleris himself says that they're going to hire many, and that it's going to be a non-negligible job in Bodø. Does the Council share the concern that a large private hospital in Bodø will weaken the public offer in the region by tying up health professionals needed to secure the public offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1330	The background for private actors to establish themselves must, of course, be their own response. I believe at least that what the government is doing with our policies is giving priority to long-term agreements when using ideal and private treatment institutions as part of the publicly funded treatment. This actor Aleris Bodø also has an agreement with Health Nord in some areas. Besides that, I don't have a good enough overview of how much of their activity is going to be wholly commercial, or how much activity that covers the patient care that is counting as an integral part of Health North's care-for-responsibility. I just don't have an overview of that. But there is no doubt that I want a strong public health service and give priority to strengthening regional health businesses in that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1335	First, I wonder what the Council of State means when she says ideal and private. Does she really mean private ideals and private commercials? In that case, I hope she can say it in the future, so we understand which companies we're talking about. Aleris himself has said that the biggest growth in them is patients who pay for the services themselves. That's their own word. And we know that under the pandemic, we have seen that many commercial healthcare companies have grown by selling services to municipalities, but also by providing private services. They are now reinvesting their money in building e.g. Hospital in Bodø. So the question is what concrete government will do so that this development will not continue beyond what has been said about selection, etc. which comes, and the liquidation of free treatment choices, which would not stand in the way of exactly this in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1344	The answer is to have a strong, good public health service that meets the needs of citizens for health care and advanced treatment. We do that through the annual budgets. We have strengthened the hospitals in the financial year we are now in, by 2.4 billion. kr. In Health North, there is a widespread population, but the need for specialised patient treatment is just as great as it is for us living in other parts of the country. It's Health Nord who has custody. That's why it's important for me to put Health Nord in a good position to take care of it, and I think we're doing that through both the short-term measures, which are about improving the economy, more educational positions and ensuring well-qualified staff, which is the main input for a strong public health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1352	This question, from the representative Mari Holm Lønneth to the municipal and district minister, has been transferred to the minister of health and care who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1357	I would like to ask this question to the Minister of Health: ‘The World Health Reform suggests that many people find it challenging to deal with and engage in dialogue with public services. It is perceived to be labour-intensive, both for the recipient and for the family around it. One digital public sector: The public sector digitalisation strategy 2019–2025 identified seven life events in which the development of coherent services should be prioritised in the first place in order to create seamless transitions between different life phases. How is the life event involving a seriously ill child followed up by the government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1366	The government has chosen to continue working on the public digitisation strategy, where we place the needs of citizens at the centre regardless of the level of government. The strategy for digitisation points out seven life events in which the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been given responsibility for coordinating the life event of the seriously ill child. The Directorate-General for Health, in cooperation with the Directorate for e-Health, the Directorate for Education, Statped, Nav, KS and Flekkefjord Municipality, which is part of the Steering Group. I am concerned that we are making services that make life easier for families with seriously ill children. The Health Directorate has conducted a survey showing that the time parents use to search for information and coordinate services is equivalent to a 60 pst. position. The Health Directorate is working to make information more accessible so that families are better informed about their cross-sectoral rights. Among other things, the Health Directorate has launched a joint work on a so-called rights machine. The vending machine shall provide young people with easy access to information on rights at one and the same location so that they know what help they may be entitled to. This work is seen in the context of the DIGI-UNG project, which is digital services for children and young people. I think it's wise that we see the different services aimed at children and young people in the context. We must help ensure that the information is as consistent as possible and that it is easy to find. This is not a job health and care services can solve alone. There is a need for cross-sectoral cooperation. The Health Directorate cooperates well with other actors to find good solutions for the life event Severely ill child. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is demanding to find good models for managing and financing common solutions across sectors. That is why this cross-sectoral work must be anchored at a high level in order for us to succeed, and that is what the government is about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1375	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I am very pleased that the government chooses to continue the digitisation strategies that the previous government had. That, I think, can lead many of the people who really need it to get better services in the future. I also agree with the Council of States, which has good points when it comes to coordinating across different sectors, because it is often something that can be challenging when one engages in digitisation projects that embrace more. Do I understand the end of the answer to the Council of State that this is something you think you are coordinating internally in the government, or are you also thinking of having other ways to contribute to better interaction and coordination across the states?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1380	This is a work coordinated by the government – just like the previous one. The responsibility for following up the various life events is allocated to different departments. My assignment is what the representative asks about. Here it is important to have good cooperation across borders and to have a good foundation outside the government conferences. Getting the different agencies to find common solutions across is one of the biggest challenges — getting this to talk to each other. Therefore, this co-financing mechanism has been used to allow individual actions not to search for funding, but to be better coordinated and prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1385	I thank you for your answer. I think I can go back a little bit to some of the government councils mentioned in their first response, and it's about this vending machine of rights in connection with DIGI-UNG. It appears positive that a number of measures are seen in the context, so that it is also used for others, not only for those who have seriously ill children. Can the Council of State say anything about when it will be appropriate to have this automatic vending machine in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1390	I should have liked to have a schedule and a date for the representative Holm Lønseth on it. Work is in progress, and I would like to come back and say more about progress. But it's a good start that work is going on, and the point here is that young people should have easier access to information on rights and requirements. Then, of course, DIGI-UNG will be a broader surface with other types of useful information for children and young people. I think it's good that we see these two things in context, even though what rights you have is a little bit more on the must list than on the can-be-use list.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1398	This question, from the representative Mudasar Kapur to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1403	‘In the government, the Right in the State Budget for 2021 established a separate grant scheme to develop more flexible forms of relief for older relatives, and in the proposal for the State budget for 2022 it was earmarked for this purpose 5 million kroner. How does the government stimulate the development of more flexible forms of relief and what projects have received grants to this end?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1410	Relatives in demanding or long-term care tasks must receive adequate support and relief so that they also have the opportunity to care for themselves and their families, to complete education and to be able to work. The government will stimulate new ways of supporting and relieving relatives who have particularly extensive care tasks. Its aim is to further develop services and strengthen cooperation with the voluntary sector. As part of the implementation of the related strategy, the government proposes to earmark 5 million. kr within the innovation grant to establish and test models for flexible, municipal relief services for relatives. It is foreseen that the bet will be included throughout the strategy period, i.e. out of 2025. State administrators report on the use of the competence and innovation grant in 2021. As an example, two projects have been funded by the Prime Minister of Oslo and Viken. It is the children's palliative team and the ambulance team and Frydenlundsgate 18, which is a place with activities for younger people with dementia and their relatives – the last one was the street address. The government will further develop the tool of related agreement with the municipality as an offer to relatives with particularly burdensome care tasks. The related agreement clearly describes the division of roles and responsibilities between the municipality and its relatives. We want the related agreements to be designed in such a way that the relatives are involved in the cooperation with the service and feel seen and cared for. Relatives will also have a central place in the work on Bo's safe home reform. In this work, we will carry out an open and inclusive process in which we invite our own recording meetings during the year – both nationally and regionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1423	I thank you for your answer. Could the Council of State say a little more about how much money has been spent so far, if you have any picture of it, and how you're going to work to draw on experience, so that the use of the instrument is also good in the different states?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1430	For the management of this 5 million grant. have, among other things: two municipalities in Trøndelag have been allocated funds for relief services to relatives and are running projects. Both projects are somewhat delayed and continued in 2022. Then there are four municipalities in Vestfold and Telemark that have received grants. The municipality of Skien has established and adapted fixed charges for a resident user with high needs. There is something to be continued and tested even in the evening. There are municipalities in Agder – Arendal and Vennesla – that have received grants for relief services for relatives. There, municipalities initially want to identify needs and gain experience from others. And in Oslo and Viken both Lillestrøm and Fredrikstad, in addition to the projects I mentioned, have received grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1435	As stated by the Council of State, these instruments are committed up to 2025. When can we expect to get feedback from the government on what you think about the way forward after 2025, and how will the process be until then?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1440	It's going to be 2024 or 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1445	Then we go back to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1453	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Gender Equality the following questions: "Before Christmas, the selection that has worked with the BPA system delivered its settings in the NOU "Self-controlled is well-managed". An important point in the work of the sample is that BPA should become a gender equality tool, allowing more people to work, have hobbies and live a life without visible and invisible barriers. For many children and young people with functional variations, participation in the many arenas of society is difficult, whether it be work, leisure or similar. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all children and young people are able to participate in society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1462	Thank you for the question. This is an engagement we share. Children and young people with disabilities shall have the same opportunity to participate in recreational activities as all other children. We in the government will facilitate equal opportunities for participation in all parts of society. Participation in leisure activities gives children and young people access to experiences, mastery, friends and social communities, simply. This is absolutely essential in order to experience good growth. The government wants BPA to be a real tool for participation and equality. The NOU on BPA is now at the hearing. Our goal is an open, inclusive and diverse cultural life across the country, and a sports and leisure offer where everyone can participate. Accessibility, equality, diversity and inclusion are central to the participation of all children and young people. But we also know that there are challenges. In order to balance inequalities in participation, there is a need to strengthen the diversity and inclusion perspective, to lower thresholds and barriers to participation and to facilitate the practical participation of all. We use public transfers, grant schemes, laws and regulations, knowledge and competence, premises, facilities and equipment in this way that we should facilitate everyone's participation. Our main means of getting more involved is to strengthen the framework conditions for volunteering. We therefore provide full VAT compensation for sport, volunteering and culture, which works well with this. Through sport policy too, we want to achieve multiple and inclusive participation, through a combination of broad basic grants and some more targeted grants. That is why we have also recently established a new 200 million scheme. to measures of diversity and inclusion in sport and physical activity. In 2022 and 2023, actors across the country, small and large, can apply for support. Persons with a just disability are one of the target groups of the scheme. This is also how small or large teams and associations can apply for money to build down barriers based on their experience, so that several of them can participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1473	Thank you very much for your answer. The grant scheme, as the Council of State finally mentioned, we also worked on. I think it's very good, so it deserves all the honor. As the Council of State was in it, I think it could mean that some smaller organisations can get grants to actually do something to facilitate this. Nevertheless, it is a major challenge for many to be able to have a user-driven personal assistant that they can use not only in relation to health challenges and those needs but also in order to be able to participate in the same way as all others. In the previous government's government platform, it was clear that we were to define the BPA scheme as a gender equality tool and not as a health scheme. So my question is really just, does the Council of State agree with that? Will she go in to define BPA as a gender equality tool, so that you actually have a right to BPA hours to more than just meet your most needed needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1480	I fully agree with the representative that BPA is a crucial and important mechanism for people to be allowed to participate in all areas of society, in line with everyone else. Now it is the case that the BPA system sorts under the Health Minister and not me, but the government is clear that we just want the BPA system to be a tool for participation and equality. But the responsibility lies with the Minister of Health and Welfare. The investigation now under consultation has the deadline for consultation on 1 July 2022, and then the Minister of Health and Health will come back to how we are going to organise that particular service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1487	I have such an understanding of this, but then I interpret it to you that the government does not have an expressed ambition to make this an equality tool. Then we get to work and use consultation rounds to influence, so that the government lands right on this, because I think that's very important – and especially the Minister for Gender Equality should notice that. It's important to meet all the health needs, but that's exactly what's the challenge -- that a lot of people feel that they're getting help for that piece, but then they don't get enough hours of the municipalities to do the other part. Although it does not fall within the remit of the Minister for Gender Equality, this may be one of the most important issues for this group. So my challenge is also about the economics, which the Council of State was about. We know that many people are struggling to participate in activities, and many young people may have a disability as well. In addition to the grant scheme, is there any specific action by the State Council to facilitate the participation of those young people in leisure activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1494	It is true that the government says clearly that we want the BPA scheme to be a real tool for participation and equality, not just health care, and that is what is important with that scheme. But, as I said, we have to get back to that system after the hearing, and then the Minister of Health, who is directing him, has to answer for how it is to develop. It is quite right that those with the highest threshold of participation in leisure activities, in general, are children with poor parents, and for example: disabled persons with physical barriers to participation. That is why it is important to say that in everything we do, from the dialogue we have with sport, which is funded by means of gambling, where we also support the projects they have in order to get more – the new grant scheme is an example – and until, in the context of tomorrow's RNB, we also strengthen leisure clubs, as a red thread and line in our policies, we have to build down thresholds for participation for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1504	This question, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1509	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In winter, the Minister of Industry launched an export plan with an ambitious target of increasing exports by 50 pst. by 2030. Norway has high standards of agriculture before animal welfare and low levels of antibiotic use, qualities for which it is willing to pay in an international market. Nevertheless, agricultural products are not specifically mentioned in the strategy. Does the government have ambitions and a plan to increase exports also of agricultural products, although this is not specifically mentioned in the government export strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1518	Norwegian agricultural production and policies have been largely geared towards the domestic market. In the case of milk and meat, the aim has been to maximise Norwegian production to meet the needs of the domestic market. The same applies to the cereals and vegetable sectors. At the same time, there have also been exports of agricultural products for which there has been a commercial basis, for example: of Norwegian jarlsbergost. Exports of Norwegian agricultural products from Norway amounted to 14.3 billion in 2021. kr, an increase of 6 pst. from 2020 onwards. A significant part of this export is fish feed for the aquaculture industry. Although agriculture is not explicitly mentioned in the government’s export bet, this does not preclude a bet on the export of Norwegian agricultural products. At the same time, however, it must be linked to areas where there are market opportunities for exports. As the representative Bjørlo points out, Norwegian agriculture has a high standard of animal welfare and, not least, low antibiotic use. I would like to add one important thing, namely that we have well-developed R & D environments in relation to the agricultural industry in Norway. This means that companies such as Geno are attractive internationally, with significant exports of cattle semen from Norwegian red fee to e.g. China, the United States and the United Kingdom. We see that there is further interest, for example, in exports of milk and dairy and pig products to China. In this context, Norway has submitted an application for export authorisation in these areas. The application is now pending before the Chinese authorities. Thus, in trade negotiations, the government attaches importance to negotiating better market access for Norwegian agricultural products with export potential. In addition, I would like to highlight the potential of exporting green solutions in terms of technology and skills related to the agricultural industry. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in the establishment of Norwegian agritech enterprises with international ambitions. Based on good knowledge environments in Norway and research and development of knowledge and technology, we also have a great potential to export important technologies to other countries. Finally, I would like to make it clear that agriculture and related industries will be able to benefit from the tools and tools that other businesses will have in this area. Here, I would like to highlight Innovation Norway, which is an important support player for all export-ambitious businesses, regardless of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1533	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which is a response that highlights both how much is already happening in this area and how much potential there can be. It's because we're a country that not only produces a lot of food, but eat very high standards, that satisfy high demands, and that I think will only be more and more demanded around the world for years to come. There's a large width here, which the state council also makes a lot of sense. My follow-up question goes on at the very end of the state council: When the government is about to have a comprehensive export strategy, we are going to roll out Norwegian exports, can we make sure that Norwegian agriculture is also closely linked to the overall strategic export effort? It's when I'm a little upset that agriculture is not mentioned in the export strategy of the government. Can the Council of State ensure that agriculture is fully connected?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1540	The Council of State has worked closely with the Minister of Industry in this area, and that is what the representative says: we have a great potential both on the finished product, and not least on what I had at the end of my first answer, namely on the technology side. So I would say that the companies we have today, not only contribute to the development of technology, but they also contribute to achieving more sustainable and climate-friendly agriculture internationally. So here's some bad possibilities. I will again highlight the importance of Innovation Norway. It is very important for the agricultural industry, precisely to get resources to develop technology, which can also help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to cleaner food production in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1549	I thank you again for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State also stresses the importance of technology solutions and innovation in agriculture. It's extremely important, and the width of this and the export possibilities are larger than we often think about. I myself come from a municipality where horse-semen are an export article from Norway in the world, so the possibilities in this area are great. There is also a holistic policy to develop Norwegian agriculture, not least through the agricultural sector, which is now taking place, and its facilities. I understand, of course, that the Council of State will not go into detail on what one is negotiating about there, but I want to ask her to make sure that it will take care of how we can also develop more varied agricultural production throughout the country, which may also have exports as one of the bones to stand on, in the ways we use agriculture through the agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1558	As the representative points out, the Council of State should not comment on what is happening in the agricultural negotiations, but what I can say is that this is an important area, including for the government. So I believe that through export, Norwegian agritech can create jobs and contribute to the development of agriculture globally. There are also important factors to bring with it. We are also world leaders in animal welfare. It is experience that we can contribute internationally in this area as well. In addition, I would like to mention that Norway is the world leader in the competence of modern wooden buildings, we build a lot in three. It is also climate friendly, and there we can contribute to more knowledge internationally. My ambition as Minister of Agriculture and Food in Norway is to contribute to the experience we have gained in Norway, also internationally, in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1572	‘The Government recently submitted proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act, cf. Prop. 82 L [[2021-2022]] Why are the municipalities not given the opportunity to prioritize ideal kindergartens, as the government has promised to do in the Hurdal platform, and which the Stortinget has also asked the government to do several years ago, cf. Decision No 460 13. February 2018?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1579	The government clearly writes in the Hurdal platform that we will give small ideal kindergartens better framework conditions and give municipalities the opportunity to prioritize the ideal kindergartens. The government will also give municipalities greater opportunities to manage the financing of private kindergartens and thus also the criteria for obtaining grants. After many years of investigations under the previous government, the new government has taken decisions in a short time and presented a number of proposals for new regulation of private kindergartens, no later than before Easter. As I was clear when the proposals were presented, this was just the beginning. We will come back with a proposal for a new regulation for the governance and funding of the kindergarten sector, one of which is to strengthen the ideal kindergartens and strengthen the municipalities. These proposals will be based, inter alia, on: the reports of the Welfare Service Committee and the Storberget Committee. The Storberget Committee believes, inter alia, that: the need to give municipalities greater access to the priorities of non-profit actors. The government also assesses the welfare service committee’s proposal to design a legal definition of what is a non-profit enterprise. It is a challenge that today there is no statutory definition of what is a non-profit enterprise. In the spring of 2019, the Solberg government sent a proposal for municipalities to be allowed to lay down conditions for new private kindergartens to be ideal for receiving grants. The hearing bodies were divided into feedback, and there was a slight overweight that supported the proposal. Several of the hearing bodies, both those in favour and against the proposal, point out inter alia: that it is difficult to define a good definition of what constitutes an ideal kindergarten. The hearing showed that there was a need to continue working on the proposal in order to arrive at a legal regulation that works well. The Government of Solberg considered the request decision to be fulfilled when the proposal was sent to the hearing. This was mentioned in the budget proposal for the State budget for 2020. Here I disagree with my predecessors. The government will therefore come back with proposals for a new regulatory framework for the governance and financing of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1594	I thank you for your answer. There is an important distinction between the private-ideal actors and the private-commercial ones. The ideal actors have played an important role in the development of parts of the Norwegian welfare state, and they should continue to do so, but today we see that the ideals are squandered by the big and commercial actors. We know that there is a decline in places at the ideal kindergartens, and that the big commercial chains are growing. Red shares the government’s desire to facilitate the ideal childcare facilities and diversity of childcare facilities. In non-profit kindergartens, all grants and parental payments go to the operation. They often have high levels of staffing and high levels of education and have very often satisfied employees. There is good reason to facilitate private-ideal operations, but it is urgent. Powerful action is needed to stop commercialisation. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: what remains for the government to investigate before entering the law a distinction between commercial and ideals, which have already been heard in various instances?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1609	That's this definition of what's something of the obstacle to this where we are now. At the same time, I would say that there are two grips that are probably so important. One is about giving municipalities more power than they have today, and the other is about putting in place a funding system for those private kindergartens that are fair and fair, and where all the private kindergartens feel to be safe and well-funded. I think we agree that it's a goal to change the rules in a way that actually does it better, and that's at the same time repulsive. Then we have to have both a formal definition of what we think is an ideal kindergarten before we might point to it in the form of the legal text, and also work with other instruments that can help achieve the same goal, for example. that municipalities can control themselves more, and that we have a funding system that works for all private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1616	I thank you for your answer. Given that we then get a definition of ideal kindergartens, the next question to the Council of State if the Council of State can provide a guarantee that municipalities will have the opportunity to prioritize non-profit kindergartens, and when this will come. The background to this is that both the LO, the Trade Union and a number of other hearing bodies during the hearing on new child care laws have called for municipalities to have greater governance over the sector they are obliged to finance. State Secretary Hölleland also said in an interview in the Class struggle on Saturday that they would take action regarding the influence of municipalities on the kindergarten offer. My question is as I said: Can the Council of State provide a guarantee that municipalities are given the opportunity to prioritise ideal kindergartens, and does the Council of State have a time perspective on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1623	I agree with both the LO, the Trade Union and my own State Secretary Hölleland, who is very clear about what the ambitions are, and that this is something we share and are impatient about. At the same time, I think that guaranteeing that something is done when you're part of a minority government would be so humiliating that it wouldn't even dress signed. That's why I don't need to give any guarantees about it, but that we're going to do what we can to get a code that allows municipalities to control more of the development of the kindergarten sector themselves, that we're going to be able to give priority to kindergartens that need more, for example. crew because they are in a life-threatening area or have other types of needs, and that we are going to have a funding system that is fairer and fairer, I guarantee that we work for every single day. To predict the outcome of a voting in Stortinget, I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1634	‘What will the Council of State do to help the nearly 600 000 adults who have not completed secondary school to get that opportunity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1639	Norway is facing major challenges during this decade. We're going to get more people to work and create activity across the country. The government is building on the workline and aims at setting up the community with active measures to help people in work. There is a high demand for labour, while unemployment is now low. At the same time, it has become increasingly difficult to cope with the Norwegian labour market without secondary education. As we're all familiar with, higher education is not mandatory, but it's still necessary. This is why we need to aim to provide students with the professional and study skills they need in working life and further education and to lay the basis for lifelong learning. In recent years, there has been a positive trend in the number of those who have completed secondary education. This is good, but we're going to have bigger ambitions. The government will continue to follow up on the completion reform. But unlike the previous government, I don't think it's enough to focus on young people and adults getting through high school. The aim must be to qualify all those who enter higher education as a place of learning, work, education and lifelong learning. This is how we create a sustainable welfare society for all of us and a good life for the individual. I also think we need to make it easier for more adults to participate in education and training. As mentioned above, we will follow up on the implementation reform. This means that we will work to remove obstacles and limitations to the ability to complete and pass higher education and to allow for a qualification. I want to remind the representative that the Big Government put up the exact same bet on Trade Letters at work as the Solberg government. But in addition, we strengthened the municipal and county budgets with a total of 2.5 billion. NOK 112.5 million. kr for vocational training. Money doesn't solve everything. I would like to stress that one of the most important steps to ensure that more people who have not completed higher education can actually take the step of starting training is a new and more flexible training for adults. Full-time training at daytime is rarely compatible with other aspects of adult life. The more flexible organisation of training will make it easier to build on the skills already available to achieve the desired final competence. Today, we are trying out training in adult modules. The experiment is not finished, but the experience is so positive that we already have great faith in this way of organising the training. Competence requirements shall be the same as the more ordinary courses, but the organisation of training shall enable training, work and other responsibilities to be combined. I also believe that measures such as Professionals at work and the practice candidate scheme are important schemes to make more adults formalise their skills in line with the needs of the labour market. We also work to ensure that Nav and the county councils cooperate even better to ensure that adults who are outside the labour market receive a professional letter. We have commissioned several directorates to contribute to this, and we have funded training through earmarked funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1656	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I'm very happy that the Council of State mentions everything we agree on, that's very important. At the beginning of the article, the state council mentions the students and the needs of the students, that is what denotes high school today, because high school is not designed for adults. We're totally dependent on the fact that there's more flexibility. A good example is Åkrehamn secondary school in Karmøy, where you can come as an adult student on a Thursday and start on Monday, and where you have a tailor-made race adapted to the individual. Then my question to the Government is whether the government is considering how to handle tailoring: Should it be possible to have exams several times a year? How to deal with real-world assessment? And how should high school be adapted so that everyone in the whole country – regardless of where you live, who you are, and what training needs you have – will have that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1661	It's a very good example the representative draws up with Åkrehamn, and it's also an image that there's a lot of good things done locally already today. I am concerned that we build on the good arrangements we have, but have always looked at the need to cooperate well locally. We must be looking for solutions in cooperation with both county municipalities, hubs, work and business, and we must continue to play on the different approaches we have to formalise competences. So I think that the representative has something very important to do with real competence assessment, and I have to say that I'm a little surprised at how little the previous government has been working on that particular scheme, which is absolutely crucial to getting more adults really evaluated and thus finding a way into our education cycle. Real competence assessment is an example of an area in which I am very concerned, and which I am concerned that we develop further together. I think that if we get these arrangements to connect better, more adults will have access to formalising their competences in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1668	We share opinions on the importance of real competence assessment by pointing out that the Solberg government did a lot for higher education, and perhaps most importantly, it was increasing the degree of completion from 72 pst. The increased year by year, and our goal is for nine out of ten to complete and pass higher education. So I think our common goal must be to make sure that everyone has the opportunity to complete advanced education even if they have not done so today, and even if they are adults and are out of work. In order to dimension secondary education according to the needs of the labour market, there is a challenge in the need for working life in areas where there are not enough students to start classes. My question is, to what extent does the government view flexibility in the system, where you can do something digital, something in their secondary school and maybe something in the company? Can you think of anything new with the organisation of high school, both for pupils in ordinary secondary school and for adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1677	It is good that the representative believes that the previous government did a lot of good for higher education and completion, but these 600 000 have not emerged from the election until now, this has been a continuing challenge. I think we're all going to be humiliated by the challenge it's been over time, that adults who haven't completed high school are doing something weaker, for example. when they try to get a job. Then it is the states that govern both the dimensioning and the intake of the various educational programmes. I may not fully understand the question, but I perceive that the representative is asking for some more flexibility in how to organise training for adults who are going to go to higher education – in cooperation with business, and whether more digital platforms can be used and organised in a different way. There, I believe that the module experiment that is in progress provides some useful experience. Maybe we can also bring something from the pandemic that it might be relevant to look at, if it allows more people to complete advanced education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1687	‘What does the Council of State consider to be important health schools and not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1692	In Norway, we have been working for hundreds of years to create a stronger public common school – a school where children, regardless of background, assumptions and interests, meet and learn together. Other countries have chosen the opposite: they have built a school system around a classed society, where the school system helps to build up differences in society instead of building them up. This government will develop Norwegian school from what is the tradition and success story here to countries: a stronger common school for all. We've done that every time we've been in government, and we're going to do that now. Therefore, it should not come as a surprise that we will stop the privatisation of the school that we saw under the previous government. There is a need, for in the last ten years Norway has received one new private school per month, while three public schools have been closed at the same time. Before Easter, the government presented to the Stortinget a bill proposing to replace the existing law on free school with a new private school law. The main concept we are proposing is to remove the possibility of creating new private profiling schools and vocational schools. It will also not be possible to extend existing offers of this type. Profile schools and vocational schools were established under the Solberg Government in 2015. These are schools that are very similar to public schools. The new private school law that we are proposing will largely resemble the law adopted on the basis of the private school agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party in 2007. This means that there will still be access to educational alternatives, such as the Steiner School and Montessori Schools, life-based schools, and international schools. I'm not going to go into any classification of what are important freshs and not. Let me say again: Norway is a country with small differences and high trust is a strong public common school, where children and young people with different backgrounds meet and learn together. It does something about Norwegian society, which is going to be open and tolerant, when people with different social and cultural backgrounds meet less in the same classrooms. That is why I believe that the proposal we have now presented is important – not only for school but also for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1705	I thank you for your answer. I don't think it came as a surprise, but for the centre party's pragmatism and coffee cup, it's probably a surprise when they suddenly meet the Labour Party's ideology. The central party’s representatives and government partners were recently visiting Campus BLUE in Brønnøysund. They have established their own offer after trying to get it through the public for several years. Marine industries are in dire need of both apprentices and workers. ‘Four years without drop-outs are completely unique’ said the representative of the Great Britain Per Olav Tyldum. There's no doubt about it, but I think it's a pity that the school now probably can't expand. Stortingsrepresentative and government partner Geir Pollestad was quoted in Brønnøysund's Avis on 20 April: ‘As far as this is concerned by the Law on Secondary Education, this type of school should not be affected by the changes.’ I expect the government parties to agree on common policies and their platform, but I'm not sure of such statements. So the question is: Can the State Council clarify whether Campus BLUE will be affected by the changes and whether they will be able to expand their offer in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1721	The parties agree on the proposals for legislative changes that have been tabled, and I also believe that the representative Hagerup knows that. There is also no need to be concerned about reading in newspapers that there are different views about it internally in the different batches. Instead of answering questions about single schools, I want to draw up another municipality, which is a good example of how this can be solved, schools we have discussed in this room before. It's the private secondary schools in Asker and Bærum, where you had a desire to establish a private sports school. There was the solution, as far as I have understood from the local authority, that the municipality now partially takes over the same offer, which means that the students who want it can start there. That's a good way to do it. Then we still have a strong public common school, we have an offer for the students who are different, and we make sure that the school that we finance through the tax bill continues to be that and does not depend on the school money for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1728	I record that Campus BLUE did not get any clarification, and it may be easy to get lost in the alphabet, because there are many schools that are affected differently by the new bill. This week I visited the Schoolship Gann together with NRK Rogaland to raise the arbitrary and unfair discrimination that is. The school ship Gann is approved for life, but the Maritim Higher School Southland Foundation, which offers the same professional offer to students, is approved under point (h) and professional profile. The centre party's Geir Pollestad called this terrifying propaganda. Perhaps the Council of State should remind its government partner that the election campaign is now over, and that what they are doing is actually politics, which will affect both concerned students and school owners across the country. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for these two professional offers to be treated differently depending on whether they have a Christian purpose paragraph or not? Do you think it's okay that it should not be allowed to create more school ships in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1737	I think it's a little strange to be presented to quotes from a representative who is neither here nor present in the hall, and who also represents a different party than me. The representative may consider taking it up with the right person in order to probably get much more precise answers than I can give. I believe that it is neither arbitrary nor unreasonable that we have a private school law that first has been named after what it regulates, namely private schools, and that secondly clearly says what it takes to get approval to start or expand an offer that is within a private school. It is still possible to start life-based schools and recognised educational orientations, international schools, schools with specially organised training combined with top-notch education, Norwegian primary schools abroad, schools with special training for disabled persons and schools providing protective traditional crafts. There is a wide range of opportunities to establish private schools as a complement to public school. It is neither arbitrary nor unreasonable – on the contrary, it is completely defamatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1747	‘Other schools report high absenteeism among the Russians, and both principals and pupils point to relaxation of the rules of absence and termination of examination as main causes. Both changes have been made by the Council of State. She has argued that cancelling the exam gives more learning, but the realities seem different. What action will the Council of State take to remedy the situation of absenteeism?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1754	Today I was so lucky that I was allowed to start the day at the Persbräten secondary school in Oslo. There, like a lot of other schools, they do an important presence work to make sure that the students meet at school. It's not just when they're Russian, not just after the pandemic, but always, constantly, and it works. What Stortinget decides about the way each student is met in the individual school, I think is less important, because the schools have an obligation to follow up the individual student and make sure that each student meets both at school, thrives at school and learns what to do. It is true that we made temporary changes to the absence rules and canceled most examinations, and there were good reasons to make these changes. We had a situation with infectious diseases recommendations to stay home for respiratory symptoms, while at the same time we had documentation requirements in connection with absences that forced the students to the hospital to avoid invalid absences. In my opinion, it was not appropriate to carry out the examination when infectious diseases measures had created very different training conditions for the students and we did not know how the pandemic was going to develop. When I made these decisions, it was important to give both the schools and the students predictability and stable frameworks. This was necessary after several years of uncertainty and many changes in the school situation. I think everyone understands that now we can't just change our mind and say that the students should have the exam anyway. Both students and teachers need predictable frameworks to optimise training. It would also be unreasonable for students, and not least it would be practically difficult. The exemption rules for absenteeism will last for the school year 2021–2022. It is difficult to predict the effect of a reintroduction of normal documentation requirements. What is quite clear is that there would be a lot of extra work and bureaucracy for the schools with enough change at short notice, and a lot of stress and uncertainty for the students. Moreover, the absence limit is designed so that the 10 pst. limit for obtaining a position character is calculated on the basis of the year of the subject. There are about six weeks left of the school year. The position character is set a few weeks before leaving school. In a thoughtful example, a student who had not undocumented absences before the school year could have been away from teaching in a programme course for almost four to five weeks of the last seven weeks of the school year without crossing the border. I believe that such a reintroduction would be inappropriate. My goal is that the students should be as much as possible at school, and I will still be clear on that. Fortunately, there are still many reasons why students are going to attend school. The school year is not over, the positions are not set, and many go on to study during the summer. Students who are a lot away from e.g. assessment situations risk not being characterised by a lack of assessment basis. This is very clear to both students and schools, and there is a lot of work to do to ensure that students are present at school, even if we have a different documentation requirement in this school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1769	I thank you for your answer. I would like to remind the Council of State that already on 7 February, the Secretary of State Jan Tore Sanner asked the government to reinstate the rule of absence in high school. The Council of State would not listen to the proposal of the Right at the time. Now we see even more clearly all the unfortunate consequences of the absence limit being put on hold, and Vice-Chancellors all over the country are asking for the absence limit to be reintroduced. The rector of the Council of State's own secondary school, Jessheim High School, says today to the Journal of Rome: ‘The absence rule and examination help some students to get to school and when those structures are gone increases their absence’ I want to ask if the council will listen to the principal of his old school and a number of other principals, take the students seriously and soon reintroduce the rule of absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1781	The fact that we have a different documentation requirement in connection with the absence of high school students is not the same as the fact that we have removed the requirement that we follow the individual student and make sure that he or she meets at school. I think it's a shame for teachers, principals and students all over the country if we now from Stortinget help to create a picture that Norwegian students don't go to school, don't work and don't work, and that teachers don't do what they can to keep the students motivated out of the school year. It is always the school that is responsible for following up the individual student, and the students still have to attend in order to be able to gain the assessment and character of the individual subject. The students I met today early at the Persbåten secondary school were very satisfied with the follow-up they received at their school, where teachers and principals do what they can to follow up and make sure that students are at school, where it's obvious that someone comes along, if you don't meet up, and where they have it cozy together while they're learning together. I think the close follow-up is the answer to more presence at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1788	I notice that the Council of State is pushing the responsibility down on the individual school and the individual principal, and so we are receiving signals from the principals that they want the Council of State to go back on its decision of November to just remove the requirement for evidence of absence. When the Council of State canceled the exam in February, she explained that it would provide more education and more learning. We read in an article in the Address Paper by Professor Lars Aursand at Christian High School Trøndelag, KVT, that the students themselves point out that they have lost their motivation because they have nothing to stretch after the exam was cancelled. Does the State Council believe that the cancellation of the examination in combination with the relaxation of the absence rule has led to more education for the students and increased learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1797	I wish we wouldn't cancel the exam, I wish we could have a normal day of school, and I wish we could almost pretend that the two years we've spent behind us were not as special as what they've been. But in the case of the representative and the undersigned, who is concerned that we are actually going to have an institute in Norwegian school called the exam, I think we should be prepared for the very clear recommendations that came from the Education Directorate when we asked for an assessment related to the conduct of the exam this year. It's about exams having legitimacy. Some of that legitimacy is that students have to go through the same curricula at different schools across the country, and then pass a similar exam. When the year that they're behind, and that leads to exams, has been so different, I'm concerned that it would weaken the legitimacy of the exam -- if we had conducted an equal test after a different school year. That's why the exam was canceled, but from next year it's the exam again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1807	‘In the context of the treatment of the Landfill Communication ‘Waste as a Resource — Waste Policy and the Circular Economy’ in 2018, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to submit a proposal for a food law. The Hurdals Platform government announces that it will present such a bill. When will the proposal for a food law be presented, and what will be the main features of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1814	I thank the representative for the question. Food waste is a source of unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions, negative environmental impacts, social challenges and the economy is also poor. In the Hurdal platform, as the representative mentioned, the government has announced that we will reduce food waste, including: by establishing a food law. The industry agreement on the reduction of food waste is our main means of achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 12.3 that Norway should halve the food loss per capita in 2030. The agreement is signed by politicians from five different ministries and twelve organisations representing the entire food value chain from the primary industry to the food industry. The good cooperation between public and private has ensured results, even though we are not yet fully in target. The industry agreement’s first main reporting on food waste was presented in December 2021. It shows that 10 pst was dropped in Norway in 2020. food less than in 2015. Now that the first report has been on food loss for the whole value chain from primary industry to the consumer, it gives us a unique opportunity to find the causes of food loss throughout the whole value chain. If we find the reasons, we can identify and implement measures against food waste throughout the chain. It is important that the whole value chain cooperates to find out about this, and experience so far is that good dialogue across sectors and sectors and close cooperation between public and private is essential for success. Then Norway is going to halve its food loss by 2030. We need to assess the best ways to contribute to this objective, including how to set up a food law in this case in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives. Here the government has not yet concluded, but we are working on the matter, and the government will return to the Stortinget about the work in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1827	I thank you for the answer and am asking everyone to note that the ‘possible’ has now arrived in front of the food thrower that has been notified in the Hurdal platform. Then we are heading towards what the previous government did for eight years, namely not to present a food cast. The UN statistics also show that Norway is poorly placed to meet the sustainability target set and referred to by the Council of State by 2030. It's even at a time when the food problem becomes extra cut and the cooking becomes extra repulsive when the world's wheat production is threatened by the war in Ukraine. Then I ask again, when will the government present the food caste law notified on the Hurdal platform? Or is it that you understand that you are no longer obliged to submit a food law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1834	As I mentioned in my first answer, the government will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. But what I can say is that it is important for the government to set up a food law so that it can work together with the industry agreement and not conflict with it. It is also important that the instruments against food loss are designed to help achieve a good goal. As I have been told, we have not yet concluded – there are many reasons that need to be weighed against each other in this case. As I said, we are now working on how to set up a food law so that it can work together with the industry agreement and not conflict with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1841	I expect that it is a matter of course and not a news that a food law should not conflict with the industry agreement, but interact with it. I guess it doesn't have to be mentioned. An instrument that becomes essential for the further reduction of food waste, which is absolutely necessary, will be a producer responsibility regime for food that places the financial responsibility for the prevention and management of food waste where it belongs — in the food producers and food chains. Is this something that the government can already confirm is a tool they want to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1848	As I've said twice before, the government is now considering how these elements should be aligned. Although many actors have called for a law, there are also several key actors in the value chain that are skeptical. There are therefore many considerations, which the representative has also been involved in, that must be taken into account in the work we are going to do and are going on. What is important in the future is that we continue to focus on the industry agreement, focus on taking further action now to bring down the food waste. There I have very good cooperation with the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs about the reports that are now under way, and where we were first reported in December 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1856	Let me first begin by congratulating the Council of State on the victory of Kompani Lauritzen. It might not be completely inside, but still. My question to the Council of State is: ‘What does the government do to get refugees out of the neighbourhoods at the border with Ukraine as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1863	Thank you very much – I appreciate that! Ukraine's neighbouring country has, and is doing, an impressive effort to accept everyone as refugees from the war in Ukraine. We see that countries such as Poland, Romania and Moldova are also facing great pressures on their communities, schools and welfare systems. I have great respect for the work done by the authorities of those countries. Norway also presents itself to them as refugees from Ukraine, and to neighbouring countries, like several other European countries. The government has been open to accept 2 500 refugees from Moldova and to relieve and assess requests from countries requesting assistance to transfer refugees. It is on the basis that Moldova has requested such assistance. We believe it is important that this transfer takes place within the framework of cooperation with the other countries of Europe, where there are several who have said that they are willing to contribute to the transfer. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has also explicitly asked that we do it this way, to ensure that the process is sound, that it is coordinated and that as much responsibility as possible takes place. It is the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the police who are responsible for the practical organisation of the transfer of refugees from Moldova, and an instruction has been given several weeks ago that it should take place as soon as possible. UDI and the police are making a great effort to follow up on this in cooperation with, among other things. The European Commission, with the High Commissioner for Refugees and with Moldova's own authorities. I understand that you then wonder why there have been no refugees from Moldova. It's because despite this effort, which we've been working on over time, the transfers haven't gone as fast as we might have thought when we announced that the government will accept refugees. One important reason why it is simply that many of those who are displaced from Ukraine, themselves want to stay in Moldova, so that they can quickly return to Ukraine when the opportunity affords it, or that they can be near the country they are from and the culture they know. And that's easy to understand. There are many who have traveled from their husbands, from their sons, from house to home, and that will be what is most important to them. So in this situation, the Norwegians have in a way wanted to accept refugees and help secondary importance. But the work of transferring is ongoing. I can't celebrate when we want to see the first refugees from Moldova here, but I have a hope that soon we could welcome them to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1878	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At the same time, we know that very many Northmen are committed to bringing Ukrainian refugees to Norway. On the Notodden, in my own county, it has among other things. have been established a foundation called The Norwegian Support for Ukrainian Refugees Foundation. The purpose of the Foundation is to provide civilian equipment for Ukrainian refugees and to assist refugees with transport to Norway. The Foundation focuses on the quality of the offer, so that refugees are not exposed to various forms of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Therefore, the buses that go down have doctors, health workers and interpreters, among other things. NSFUR has already taken several trips to pick up refugees. They're on their eleventh trip now – the last bus is actually leaving today. Therefore, do I wonder whether the Council of State will take initiatives to support such important and voluntary activities even in the time we are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1883	Ever since the war broke out, I and the government have encouraged people who want to contribute, to get in touch with non-governmental organisations who have experience of this, who have established structures, and, as we know, are serious, to use it very, very good efforts as they do – and I am grateful for that. At the same time, we know that there are people who have previously been convicted of child abuse, who have engaged in, among other things. private transport of refugees. That's one of the reasons why we've always advised private people not to go down. We believe it is right that the transfer of refugees to Norway takes place under the authority of the authorities, among others. through these coordinated initiatives with other European countries, which is also my impression that the High Commissioner for Refugees appreciates reducing the risk of trafficking and exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1890	I thank you for the answer, but when the government doesn't want to sit down with these actors, there is no control over which volunteers are going down, and then we don't have control over who is doing this business. Had the state councils and the government, on the other hand, sat down with organized, serious volunteers, like NSFUR, I think we had better control. Also, when this foundation goes down to pick up refugees, they have their own letter from the Ukrainian ambassador – which I also have here. If it doesn't prove that this is a serious and well-organized foundation, I don't know. Despite this, despite the words of the Ukrainian ambassador: Is it still the case that the Council of State does not believe it is right that organised, serious volunteers bring Ukrainian refugees into the situation we are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1895	I do not know the details of the specific matter that the representative asks about, so I cannot go into it, but it is not right that the Norwegian authorities are not in contact with serious, non-governmental organisations. We work very closely with, for example: Red Cross, in order to provide assistance, medical devices and other services to Ukraine and neighbouring countries. We are helping financially with several billions, and we have also now said that we are open to receiving up to 2,500 refugees from Moldova and patients, as well as from a health initiative in the EU. But I think it's right and important that this happens in a controlled context, that people who engage in voluntary work do this through serious, established, non-governmental organisations. I am very grateful to all those who want to contribute and who have spent a lot of effort on this, and I also have responsibility for the safety of both Norway and the refugees, which makes it important that there is some framework here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1903	‘More analysts report a risk of power rationalisation and sustained extreme current prices in the future. NVE with several shouts warning about very low groundwater level. The magasin filling rate sets new bottom records, while the power export sets new top records, the power prices as well. The Council of State has previously stated that the level of filling of the warehouse is sufficient and that there is no risk of ration. Can the Council of State clarify what he bases these bona fide claims on, when there are alarm calls coming from so many different teams, both private and state?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1910	At the last update from the NVE, the filling rate of the hydromagazines across Norway was 21.1 pst. This is 10.2 pst. under normal conditions for this period of the year, but the level of filling has been lower before. In the price range of South Norway – NO1, NO2, NO5 – the level of filling is below normal for this period of the year. Through week 16, the level of flooding in the South and East increased. This is related to a lot of wind power production on the continent, which made Norway a net importer of power that week. Mild weather led to low consumption and melting water for the magazines, which also contributed to increased magazine filling in these price ranges. The level of filling in the East continued to increase through week 17. We now put the winter behind us and go into the time when the spring melt normally starts. This will help to increase the level of filling in the magazines across the country. NVE calculated that the expected power from the snow in the mountain, also called snow magazine, was about 48 TWh at the end of week 17. This is about as normal. The drought in the East and in the South is a special situation and something NVE is closely following. The NVE has been prepared about the power situation since the fall, and although the weather forecasts are not on our side now, force rationing is not something we fear now. At the same time, I have confidence that the regulars will follow the water level and the water flow and meet their required requirements in the concession terms in the future. It is important for the government to follow closely the Norwegian power situation into the next winter and next spring melting. The government has therefore asked the NVE to assess the risk of different developments in Norway and the Nordic countries as, among other things, may result in a risk or increase the risk of shortage of power in the Norwegian power system over winter 2022/2023. The NVE shall also assess the need for preparation or action towards the next winter in order to reduce the risk of scarcity of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1923	I thank you for your answer. It is reassuring to carry out a risk analysis. I have asked that before, in written questions, without a satisfactory answer, so it is good to hear that you are looking at it. After all, we were at the Sandefjord conference here at the beginning of the week, where the head of the Energy and Environment Committee admitted that if the Russians stopped oil and gas exports, there were serious problems. Norway will also be given if this situation occurs. Now the council says that the snow magazine is normal, but as the council also mentions, the level of filling is very low. As in 2010, there have been high electricity exports despite low rainfall, and in 2010 there were major problems because of a cold winter much earlier than planned. This can also happen now, in addition to geopolitical. Have you really taken this into account? Have you stored up the power, so you're ready if this situation should occur, or can we risk major power rationalization problems for winter if this happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1932	As I said in my first answer, there is no basis for believing that right now, but the NVE follows as said the situation carefully. I get regular updates from the NVE, and I've asked for it, for the assessments that are now being made, and it's important that we follow this closely. So it's important for me to stress the special mission NVE has now received, just to assess the situation up to the next winter and next spring melting. There is no doubt that we would like to have more water in the magazines right now, but I am absolutely convinced that the NVE will be the best instrument we have to assess what the prospects actually are, and that, if necessary, – if it is needed, which is not now – anyone will prepare any action that might have to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1939	One thing is the historical – NVE and magazine filling levels – but it should be updated in line with the geopolitical situation and the new power cables and power situation in Europe. I hope that is followed up and given priority. In addition, at the Sandefjord conference, we were told that gas exports from Norway are expected to increase by 100 TWh this year, as the Council of State told us, where gas that was intended to be injected to obtain more oil is now to be sent to the EU. So we're sacrificing a little bit of oil production to help the EU. Why don't you set any requirements and conditions, then you have to be able to limit a few terrawatt hours in current exports, so you can reduce the power prices from 254 cents, as it is now, as far in May, which is over eight times as high as normal. Why do you give so much to the EU without requiring a regulation and restriction of exports of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1946	At first, I think it's important to stress that the NVE's mission is to assess the specific situation, based on the reality that always applies. I stress that there are many uncertainties that lie there, and that one must be prepared to be able to handle, but that is the actual situation that applies. That's what the NVE has been commissioned to assess. So it's like that, and it shows the individual weeks, that there are also weeks when we have net imports of power into the system. In the time we now go into, towards summer, it will be a great advantage for our own situation if that's how the snow melting and the magazine filling actually happens. However, if it would potentially blow a lot of Europe, we can import power, just to underpin energy security in Norway through it. The only safety valve we have, apart from rationing, is imports of wind power from Europe, and I hope it can happen during the summer as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1953	Then there's case no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-11.ana.ud574e1967	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
