ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session. Before the order of the day begins, the record that the list of questions to be answered orally in full is included in the file of the plenary, and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning, as at the first point of the order of the day of this plenary session, in which there are four Members who have delegated their vote for this session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Also, unfortunately, the Department of Interior has informed us that the remains of a new victim of male violence have been found in Olesa de Montserrat. They correspond to Julia, who was donated for missing the year 2012. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for its record. In accordance with the Protocol of Dol of the Parliament of Catalonia against Masclist Violence approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this Presidency calls for a minute of silence at the hour of suspending the session of the Plenary today, at midday, before the Parliament's facenna. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] On the other hand, according to the resolution 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies for the collection of migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are already a total of 467 victims dead or missing in the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of basic services to families]] [[310-00247/13]] And let's get to the first point of the order of the day, ask them with an oral answer. Let us begin with the question to the Government to answer orally in full on the guarantee of basic services to families. The question is posed by Mrs Basha Change, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.2.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, we have on the table several cases of sizes of energy sub-administrations to families in a situation of vulnerability, with the action of Mossos inclusa, and without court orders. We ask you, Counselor, how you have guaranteed and guaranteed in these cases the department the application of the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures for the housing emergency and against the poor energy, which precisely prohibits these sizes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.3.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.4.0	Thank you very much, President. MP, yes, well as you say, the Law 24/2015, of urgent measures to face the housing and energy emergency, what it does is to ban the heights of the light, whenever users have the reports of the relevant social services of the municipalities. And, therefore, the one who forbids the law is precisely these sizes of light. What he doesn't do, either, is condone this debt. This deuteronomy is condemned thanks to two deputies we have in this chamber, advisers from the former Government, who on March 29 signed a deal with one of the main electrical companies in our country, through which, this deuteronomy of these companies..., it was able to help 35,000 families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.5.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.6.0	Miri, counsel, the guarantee of rights cannot be excused in the bureaucracy. The department's task is to guarantee rights, not to stick to the wheels in situations that are already extremely vulnerable. The task is to guarantee technical resources to the assemblies and workers so as not to carry the burden of the bureaucracy of social attention on families. Because if you apologize for the lack of a paper to guarantee lighting and heating to families in a vulnerable situation, the same excuse should be used not to execute petitions of such sub-administration without judicial orders or denunciations of persons at risk of exclusion as that which is occurring this morning in Casa Africa, where more than thirty people will remain in the street because there are no papers. And more so if this is morning, with whom he stores things, with whom he does what he knows he's sick. We come with every little bit of surprise and every little bit of anger like this government doesn't just put up everything you have to age for who else you need, but you don't even try it, co-ordinate between departments. Is it that they don't talk to you, Social and Interior Rights? Given the narrow involvement of Mossos as guarantors of repression and persecution of dissent in Catalonia, you should have fluid communication, right? Or what's sadder, they may have it, but it's putting themselves in the service of great owners, of businesses and the State, which causes this vulnerability. We're asking you, Counselor, but in fact, we could also ask Counselor Elena, because, in the end, violating rights through repression is the mark of this government. And, for which we are seeing in habitation, we are seeing in guarantee of basic sub-administrations, in labor rights or including linguistics, the gray transformation, that of returning to the Node, they are becoming fantasistic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.7.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Look, I'll explain to him what this government is doing, as well as what the previous government did. As I said, with the agreement of Councillor Chakir El Homrani and Councillor Ramon Tremosa, at these times the debt of 35,000 families has been forgiven, the debt of the year 2015 to the year 2020. From the year 2015 to the year 2018, Endesa paid the import of more than 23_million euros to be able to forgive this debt. During the years 2019 and 2020, this debt started between the Department of Enterprise and the electrical company. And this year 2021, the debt we're taking from the Department of Social Rights. At these times what we are doing is reaching a political agreement not only between the different departments of the Generality – which, as you say, there are various departments involved in the energy issues–, but also with the local world, to be able to make a solid foundation of attention that allows us to guarantee these sub-administrations in a more efficient way, and, moreover, to expand this agreement, that at these times we had with a company, with Endesa, that covers thirty-five percent of the sub-administrations, and also with other companies such as Iberdrola and Naturgy, that we arrived at eighty-five percent of these sub-administrations. Therefore, what the Government of the Generality wants to do is to be able to guarantee these debts. Only one premise: one of the conditions that we put into this agreement is that families would have to cling to the social good. At these times, only twenty percent of families have joined them, which, as you said, makes the bureaucracy go on, and we have to work because this bureaucracy is over. This is where we are occupied by the Government of the Generality. And, therefore, what we want to do is make Law 24/2015 effective. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.9.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the novelties with regard to the possible candidacy for some winter Olympic games. [[Ask the government about what's new about the possible bid for some Olympic Winter Games]] [[310-00248/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Vilalta, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. This week we have heard the announcement by the Government of the date and procedure to ask the citizens of the Pyrenees about the Winter Olympics project for 2030. With this announcement we believe that the government's commitment, with this Parliament and also with the country, is complete, that it will be the citizenship of the Pyrenean communities that will decide whether to apply for Olympic Games or not. For us, you know, participatory democracy is a necessary complement to representative democracy. We want to encourage citizen participation, institutional-citizen complicity, and the empowerment of people. Despite the demophobia of the Spanish State and the allergy that it has at the polls, we want to be able to decide directly on everything that affects our country, and especially on the future of our country. Radicalization and democratic transformation. In the case of the games we compromised ourselves, and both the government and this Parliament made it possible. We agreed, through a young man, that we would consult the Pyrenees, that we would do it no more than 2022. Fifteen days ago we modified in this same chamber, and also validated, the law of popular consultations not referendums to convene in a given area this consultation. And this fever, too, with a motion from this Parliament in Catalonia, we moved to seek consensus on the defined scope of participation. Councillor, with the formula that the President of the Generality and the Government have called for, we could have celebrated two important principles: the participation of everyone who has shown the will to be able to participate, but also the protagonist and the prevailing view of the definitive decision of the citizenship of the eve of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. But not only that, in the fact of the consultation, but also, in the motions approved in this Parliament, we committed ourselves to another basic element of Republicanism and participation, which is transparency. All documentation prepared so far regarding the 2030 Winter Olympics candidacy has been requested to be made public. And about that, so we ask him, counsel, about this compromise of transparency, and also about how the government planned to celebrate these consultations because the communities decide on the candidacy and its involvement in the games. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.11.0	To answer, has the word the deputy Laura Vilagrà, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.12.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, as you said, I want to value this consultation process and this participatory active listening process, to speak absolutely to everyone, to listen to everyone; second place, to hold decisions to the territory, things happen, but, third place, also, what you pointed out, the issue of transparency. And, in this sense, announce that at these times all the reports are already loaded completely, and in time and form, as they were playing, and open– so everyone can access them. We were also able to clarify the terms of the two consultations. We're going to do it with the Foreign Councillor and Governor Obert. These two consultations, which, in the first place, will refer to the comarques directly impacted territorially, which, as you said, are those of the Vegaria de l'Alt Pirineu and l'Aran, because they must agree that without these comarques there is no candidacy. Therefore, we want this territorial validation of the proposal, but also of other regions of the Pyrenees, which, in a_second level, are, of course, also involved. And, therefore, we want to know how far they want to have this involvement. Therefore, the proposal he will make is to explain our mountain to the world. In fact, we have the best actions to be able to make alpine skiing, snowboarding, mountain skiing and also hockey in Barcelona, with this star discipline, of gel. And what we do is, precisely, improve the infrastructures that we have at these times and not set up new ones that don't feel like Catalonia. Take advantage of the hotel seats we also have today. And, therefore, there are no speculative elements here. And, therefore, sustainability is the main element, working with the territory, also the Berguedà, the Ripollès and the Solsonès, that we ask them about the possibility that there can be training, technology or other sports complementary activities. Therefore, what we intend to do is also make cultural olympies, which we pose to the world our mountain, the snow, the skiing. Therefore, it will be the perfect match for us, Catalonia, a country that we have demonstrated on many occasions that we want to organize and that we have the capacity to organize. So we don't want any games or any games. Just like Barcelona 92 was the best games in history, we also want to do the best games in winter history. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.13.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the boost to vocational training for the automotive sector. [[Ask the Government about the boost to vocational training for the automotive sector]] [[310-00249/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.14.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Counselor, another time, again, one more time in a ple we ask a question. As you know, in this Parliament – already in committee, already in this Ple – there has been in-depth discussion about the Martorell Vocational Training Centre. And this debate was relevant and necessary, because, among other issues, the processes of transformation in the automotive sector must also lead the processes of transformation in the industrial sphere. And the automotive sector in our country is a sector that has a strong leadership character. To our region, the Baix Llobregat, is one of the great references, and throughout the country. For this reason, the Automotive Professional Training Centre is necessary, it is essential. It has to be a box of these that allow you to move forward with no firmness to the transformation processes and the compliment of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. [[The orator breathes with difficulty.]] In this sense, the 15th of February closed the SOC call, where the MSX company, the Eurecat foundation and the UPC BarcelonaTech were presented. Finally, the UPC BarcelonaTech was awarded the management and operation of the consortium of the Centre for Vocational Training in Automotive. [[Pause.]] I really do, don't I? [[Rialles.]] Therefore, before this new concession, before this management and exploitation, before the dynamism at the industrial level and at the technological level that can involve this Centre for Vocational Training of Automotive, before what also implies for the qualification and requalification of the workers and workers of our country, before what also implies for the better of professional training and continuous training, before what also implies for the better, for the generation of jobs and for the occupation, what is the value, adviser, that in fact, of this concession? What's the value in doing, from the Automotive Professional Training Centre? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.15.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.16.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. He's made us feel a little bit, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Indeed, we have talked many times – in committee, in this House – about how the transition of the mobility and automotive sector to the decarbonization paradigm, to the electrification paradigm, is perhaps one of the most important challenges in this process of transforming the product model we want for our country. And we have also said many times that this was not possible, that this transition was not possible if it was not giving the new skills and abilities to the workers and workers in the sector because they can make this change. But there's not enough to say, things have to be done, huh? And, in this sense, obviously, the disengagement, say, of Martorell's vocational training centre is great news. From the minute u, to the Department of Enterprise and Work we proposed to unblock this center, and with the announcement of March 25th of the award to the Polytechnic University of Catalonia for fifteen years, more ten can be extended, effectively unblocking this situation. In fact, a few months ago, here in Parliament, I asked a parliamentary group that I assumed that what I wanted was to generate doubts about the bidding process, I said that it would be a reality and that it would be a key. And, actually, that's what's going on. It is a reality, the Centre de Formation Professionnel d'Automomiento a Martorell, where initial training, vocational training aimed at the occupation and training linked to the needs of the enterprises of the sector will be shared – therefore, training programmed for the enterprises. Therefore, it will be a centre of excellence and key reference in this process of transition from a sector that we have to do for the environment, but also for the great economic opportunities that it generates. And, in this sense, I insist, that's what's going on, we've gone crazy. It is a reality, and this will be key for the sector and for the country. And I wouldn't want to miss the opportunity to thank the work done by my predecessors, especially Constellera Bassa and Constellera El Homrani, who before I myself worked on this project, because they also know the key importance for our economy, for our business fabric, for this transformation of the product model we want to lead. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.17.0	Ask the Government to respond orally in full about the Protection and Promotion Body of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination. [[Ask the Government about the Organization of Protection and Promotion of Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination]] [[310-00250/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Najat Driuech, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Before I begin, I want to congratulate all Muslims and Muslims. From here, Ramadan Mubarak. Already in the matter, counsel, two weeks ago I had the opportunity to attend the presentation that the Department of Equality and Feminism of the Protection and Promotion Body of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, body created to age for the deployment of Law 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, key element to contribute to the feminist transformation of the country that we want under the march of justice that, on many occasions, we have claimed. And it's that without equality he hasn't freed it. Since the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, we were very clear that society needed a law that deployed instruments to defend and protect human rights. And so we did, with a high participation of the sector and of the citizenry, and also with a broad political consensus. An indispensable tool to guarantee the rights and freedoms of many people who still today suffer or, better said, suffer discrimination for the simple fact of being like us. At the same time, a tool of social re-education, awareness and collective awareness, because we all involve ourselves in the struggle against discrimination for whatever reason. This organization is directed by Manuela Fernández, activist, gypsy and feminist who... in this sense, I want to take advantage of and allow me to congratulate her on this responsibility. I also take advantage of adventurousness to wish salvation and freedom to the Gypsy people, who this divination commemorates their international day. Let us not forget that the Gypsy people have suffered and suffer all kinds of discrimination. And that's why we're compromised with the fight against racism and xenophobia... and avoiding any discrimination that is manifested as the ideology of the domain and lead to exclusion from all social groups. We are committed to fighting for human rights and compromises to protect the diversity of our country. And it is for all this, counsel, that we want to ask him if he could explain to us what concrete functions this body would have and what their abyss would be. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.19.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have been working intensively on these last few months to get the Protection and Promotion Body out of the way of the Treatment and Non-Discrimination Equality, an organization that, like its director, has very clearly, has to allow victims to be placed at the centre of this administered procedure that guarantees the sanction and reparation – this is fundamental – of people who have suffered some kind of discrimination. It is, therefore, a question of humanizing the administered procedure and of providing a follow-up to victims throughout the process. We already have the complaint form activated on the department's website, also on the Generality's website. This complaint is the one that allows you to activate the complaint service and care for victims. Locally also the 012 and the citizens' offices of the Generalitat will provide information. And we will also have a central area of face-to-face attention in the centre of Barcelona, which we will set aside, therefore, properly. I mean... it's very important to be able to sanction these situations of discrimination so normal that so far they've been very invisible, too, but they're very important at the same time the restorative mediation measures, the repair measures and the guarantee of non-repetition. We are also aware that, as there are many groups that have suffered from these discriminations, they are being screened and so naturalized, we need to make a lot of dissemination – institutional campaigns, also information campaigns from the territory, that we will work and are beginning to plan with local authorities – because it reaches all cities, towns and barrels, because what we want to normalize is the exercise of rights. We also need to form the entire public administration, because it has to be the first guarantor of not producing discrimination that we know happens. We have to assume that. We need to work for prevention, identification and repair of all these discriminations. We have started to train all the staff of the services of our department – we want to set an example – but at the end of the month we have a training session in the framework of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia, where more than four hundred people have signed up. So, we're doing a lot of good in this sense. And, obviously, more things will happen. The design of the macro-analysis of discrimination and hate crimes, which we are just working on, because we need a basis of quantitative and qualitative studies to be able to... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.21.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the planned aid before the consumer price index rises]] [[310-00240/13]] He asked the Government to give an oral reply in full on the aid provided before the consumer price index was raised. The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.22.0	Yeah. Counselor, how do you intend to help the Catalans in the face of the rise of the CPI?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.23.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.24.0	President... Mr. Garriga, the Department of Economics will do everything in its power to resolve the social and economic crisis generated by the IPC and the war.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.25.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.26.0	Yeah. Counselor, we have an inflation of 7,4_per_cent and we're going to ten_per_cent. We are facing a serious problem for workers, for businesses, for families, for all Catalans. Prices have risen a lot: housing, transportation, diesel, food, milk, bread, fruit. Catalans are having a hard time getting there by the end of the month, and many don't even dare to put the heating on. The Generalitat must be responsible and take steps to alleviate this price increase. You just announced yesterday a timid... 120_million_euros and more deficit. What can the Generalitat do? We'll explain it to him. First, reduce public spending. To contain prices, we need to reduce superfluous and ideological spending, so that we can reduce taxes, and thus free up disposable income for families and workers. I could give you many examples, but I refer to VOX's proposal in the general policy debate, which we proposed to reduce more than €1,500 million in superfluous and ideological spending. In front of its 120, our 1,500_million. We can get it to him. Second, lower taxes, eliminate superfluous expenses; we can lower the autonomous IRPF in all its sections, helping to have more purchasing power for workers and families. Second, also lower the ITP to make more affordable access to housing and not tax that price with ten_per_cent of this tax. Eradicating own taxes that artificially raise prices, increasing production costs; many of them are..., water canon, multiple waste... Eradicating the multitude of ecological taxes that increase production and, consequently, increase the lives of Catalans. And once superfluous spending is eliminated, and after tax cuts, then we can make a plan to support the business economic fabric and families with measures of direct compensation to the economic losses suffered in strategic sectors such as agriculture, livestock, fishing, transport, intensive industry..., in the use of energy. Supporting families, also supporting self-employed people and helping those who cannot pay for the receipt of light. " With what money? He'll tell me. We will also explain this to you: with the 1,400_million_euro per year of the excise duty on hydrocarbons and with the 200_million_euro that the State assigns to Catalonia relating to the light tax. Counselor, listen to us. Pay attention to VOX. Change spending policy, change fiscal policy, lower taxes and help Catalans reach the end of the month. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.27.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.28.0	President, Mr. Garriga, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... do you know what is the margin of manoeuvre the Economics Council has to put an end to inflation? Do you know what the leeway is? Captain. The little room for manoeuvre we have used to set aside a series of economic measures that can mitigate inflation, but not fight it – mitigate it. We have frozen the CO2 tax, from which 3 million taxpayers will benefit; we have facilitated a better number of all the credits of the Catalan Institute of Finance to small and medium-sized enterprises; we have suspended taxes on fishing... And, more than that, we have improved the contracting of public works to be able to cope with the rise of prices. Moreover, yesterday I sent a letter to Minister Montero asking him to increase the generality's margin of deficit to u percent and to give us an extraordinary foundation to deal with this crisis. Miri, to fight against inflation, as you know, the main tool is monetary policy. Monetary policy rests with the European Central Bank and the State central banks, which are represented on the European Central Bank. For the time being, Mrs. Christine Lagarde has already warned that she will stop buying state public debt. Therefore, we will see the Spanish State, which has 1,4_bilions of debt – the cent_dinou_per_cent of its GDP – as it does. You, from VOX, are always against autonomy, you want to end autonomy, and, at the same time, you claim to be the powers of a state. Do you know what this is, being against autonomy, not being satisfied with autonomy, and claiming the skills of a state? Do you know what this is? Be independent. Or I'll just take care of it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.29.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the state of public health. [[Ask the Government about the state of public health]] [[310-00241/13]] The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.30.0	Thank you, President. Mr Argimon, do you still think, as you pointed out on 20 January, that the public health system is losing quality in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.31.0	To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.32.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Congressman. From this point of view, what I'm saying is the warning that we can go lose quality. If I say, for example, a given..., the standard of quality, at these times, of primary care, which is, from this point of view, everything that refers to indicators on diagnostic effectiveness, treatment effectiveness or patient safety, at these times is better than the year 19. But, if you want, then we can talk about the deficiencies that Catalan sanitation has and that we have to address in a priority way because it really is a model of excellence, as it has been for many years and continues to be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.33.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.34.0	Thank you, President. On January 20, as I was transferring you, in statements collected by the Diari El Punt and other media, you denounced the concern that the public health system in Catalonia was losing quality. He has not categorically denied it, indeed. And I, before delving into the matter a little bit, would like to put on the table a reflection – you did too. Catalonia and the rest of Spain have had a quality health system for the last 25 years. It's not that I say it, but it's an idea that comes out of a lot of indicators. I'll talk about three. Firstly, a sustained good assessment by the citizen in all public service surveys, which is remarkable, because citizenship rightly owes and is often very demanding in such assessments. Secondly, health tourism, a practice to be eradicated, of course, especially in this version of the "all free", but which at least raised a positive implicit idea, is that even in the Scandinavian countries, a paradigm of good governance, used the summer to come to enjoy the health service of Spain, a test of good quality. Thirdly, good experiences of public-private cooperation, in which, by the way, Catalonia has been a protagonist for many years. The pandemic puts it all up, and puts on the table, too, a series of serious deficiencies that are sustained for a long time thanks to the sacrifice of professionals who give everything in exchange for nothing. But it is clear that these professionals today need a much better working climate and resources, and they also have to face waiting lists today that are incompatible with advanced societies. Go ahead, Mr. Argimon, my respect for your outstanding professional career prior to politics, but it has been a year as a counselor and the matter does not go back on the flight, and this is being paid for by the citizenry. You have been unable to achieve a better budget than last year for health when it was most needed; you have the sector revolutionized with manifestations of all kinds; Marea Blanca denounces 800,000 people on waiting lists, a staff saturated and without expectations. It also lacks a model today, its Government. It has achieved the square of the negative circle: neither the public nor the private nor the combination of both. Look, public-private cooperation in health – you know better than I – was born, precisely, to unload the public and that people with less resources could enjoy the same excellence... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.35.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.36.0	Miri, Congressman Fernández, this government's priority with public health is total and absolute. And that shows, therefore, the agreements of the legislature, shows the plan of government, it also shows the premise, that, from this point of view, the effort that has been made since the Generality is very and very remarkable. But it is also true, and this I have never denied, that we are carrying an under-financing, a chronic under-financing many years back, and that it is not only and exclusively from Catalonia, it is from all the territories – from all the territories betray us the Basque Country, betray us Navarre. Listen, for these two years, there's been a theme and a problem that has turned public health upside down, and we can't ignore that. And we did not come out thanks to the efforts of everyone, and, very personally, of the professionals, who at these times also require – also require – a personal and emotional recovery. But we also have to say that from this point of view, we are recovering the activity of the year 19 thanks to your effort, we are recovering the waiting list. And then there'll be a question about waiting lists where I'll probably be able to stretch out more. Two: we have incorporated seven_ thousand people into the health system – seven_ thousand people. We've also incorporated professional profiles. We have, at these times, 322 people referring to emotional welfare to primary care; more than sixty-seven professional nutrition, and we will reach one hundred and fifty nutritionists to primary care, precisely to give a fall to all that is the promotion of health and prevention of disease. We have also given a change in the world of mental salvation, which will be seen and translated into a few months, giving them much more attention to the community. And I'm running out of time and I can't go on, but we've done more. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.37.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the waiting lists to the health centres. [[Ask the Government about waiting lists at health centres]] [[310-00245/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Argimon, Members... What do you think you are doing because Catalonia has ceased to be one of the leading communities in health care lists?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.39.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.40.0	Good morning, Congresswoman. In principle, it invests 160_million, which is in the presupposition, mainly to recover diagnostic activity and also recover therapeutic activity, basically surgical.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.41.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.42.0	So much good we could believe it. Because, look, the Catalonia Processor is a bluff, it's a pyramidal scam where being autonomous is a fearlessness; posing ill, an adventure, and not having a private mutual, play the physical. We had one of the most successful health models in this country, and you've loaded it on the basis of detail, out of useless loads put to say and that they don't even serve to dispense an aspirin, while the authentic health staff is blown up by effort and very hard up at the end of the month, if it's up there. Bid with little transparency. They don't know or want to explain how they can spend 60 million on masks, which they don't know if they've had the brother of the Help or a cosy of the Green Dawn, and, in other words, they just lack, of course, the pandemic to finish failing and to think they have an excuse to fail. The best hour doesn't have to be 2019, counselor. It's got to be 2012, which is when the mega-talls started. But it is no longer true, ladies: neither Mr. Sánchez can blame Vladimir Putin indefinitely for saving inflation in Spain, nor can you blame the entire tragedy of primary care or waiting lists in Catalonia. Mr. Argimon, you know that I have more faith in you than I do in the rest of your government. If you took me down, I'd put you in charge of TV3, outside action, the Culture and Education Council. [[Rialles.]] By the way, are you in favour of completing the sentence of twenty-five percent of classes in the castle? I'm not answering now; after the publicity. I am aware that here miracles do not get tired even on the 25th of December. You want to improve the system without questioning the system's miseries. You want to fix the waiting lists without going into the real reason that there are these waiting lists, which is the mismanagement of resources. The Generality, as well as you intend to do, is characterized by immense health and social insensitivity. Mr. Argimon, you make numbers and you make clean. It's not supposed to be cheating. I do not allow the salvation of Catalans to depend on whether they can or cannot afford a mutual or whether they can emigrate to Madrid because they operate in the half of the time here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.43.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.44.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will only dedicate myself to salvation, and I will take his word: miracle. Miracle, miracle. We, of waiting lists, are not good, and I will never deny that. Now, there's a rum-rum... [[The orador goes to the microphone.]] Excuse me. There's a rum-rum, which is this to say if we're the ones who're in or not. I'm not giving you any data. Miri, we are doing exactly twice as much, for example, of surgical interventions as the Valencian Community; twice as many programmed surgical interventions, which is the hope list – twice. We're one thousand more, but no more. In change, we have thirty per cent more than waiting lists. This isn't food. The same goes with Madrid, or the same goes with Andalusia. I put three autonomous communities – three – that are the same size as us, and that's a miracle. It's the miracle of bread and fish. You can't do more activity, you can't do more, and then you can have more waiting lists. So there can only be three possibilities. One, the first, that we are very very very very very ill. Catalans and Catalans are very sick. Listen, these indicators don't tell us. Second, it can pass, and that does happen, it passes lightly: overindication. Certainly, and that is why a program was also put in place at the time, which is essential, which goes on the line of Too much medicine, Less is more, etcetera. Third, maybe the waiting lists... because the data I donate to you are public, huh? Go to the ministry and take them out. It may be that community waiting lists are not fully reliable or transparent. It can be that perfectly. Catalonia was the first community to board, in 2004, the waiting lists. 2011 was the first community to give all the data of all patients on the waiting list, not just the guaranteed ones. It was the community, the year 2015, that makes a first decree that guarantees certain interventions like cancer, etc., in maximum time. And, four, it was the first community, the 17th, that made and put all the waiting lists open, with open data, because everyone can analyze the data as they are. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.45.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the measures for the territorial balance of the Vice-President's Department, Digital Policies and Territories. [[Asks the Government about measures for the territorial balance of the Department of the Vice-President, Digital Policies and Territories]] [[310-00251/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Feliu, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.46.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice-President, we were aware that last week the Vice-President's Department, Digital Policies and Territories presented to the Garrigues Altes, and, concretely, to the municipality of Juncosa, a pilot plan of territorial balance to facilitate the settlement of the population. The Garrigues Altes include seven municipalities in the Garrigues region, which, among all, are not more than 2,500 inhabitants. These seven municipalities have almost lost twenty-i-five percent of the population over the last twenty-two years, while the rest of Catalonia grew twenty-i-five percent during the same period. Unfortunately, the depopulation of this region is not unique to Catalonia, but it is a trend that has been widespread in the most rural regions. That is why, Vice-President, it is important that the government act urgently to reverse this situation. From the Junta Group we believe that all citizens must have the same work, educational, health, social opportunities, and also good digital and physical infrastructure, regardless of where we are. Say it another way: you can't have first and second territories. We've got to get the same conditions where we're going. Like the mayor of Albi, a village of the Garrigues of 762 inhabitants, I want to put in value the comarques that, like ours, despite the depopulation, have a lot of potential and offer a great quality of life. That is why I am grateful that the department has this sensitivity to small municipalities, so that it can put all the tools available in favour of the empowerment of the rural world and reverse this situation of aging and depopulation, because we need living people, if we can live with dignity. Vice-President, for all the talk, we want to ask you: who are the policies that you can push from your department to promote territorial rebalancing? Could you give us more details about this Tall Garrigues pilot test? And what are the next territories of action? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.47.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.48.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good morning, deputy mayor. I am very happy that you ask me this question, especially. You are from the Garrigues and, besides, mayor of a municipality, a micro-population, which we could say; therefore, an example of what today is, above all, the great majority of Catalonia. And it's obvious that when we talk about repopulating... I like to talk more about territorial balance and balance, because, in the background, what we pretend with the policies that we do from the department is to make people have opportunities all the time, that they can have the same opportunities visque to a large city or a small municipality as they are. And today one of the great plotting policies, one of the great policies to fix people in the territory, is, above all – and we are told a lot of studies –..., is that people, in the first place, can keep working on it. When we find out that the people are working in their villages, the people are fixed in the territories, they are flaunted in the territories. And that's why teletreball feels, at these times, one of the great repopulators in Catalonia. And we must continue to insist on this policy. And that goes, obviously, through digital connectivity above all, making it possible for some of these municipalities to work there. But with that it's true that there isn't enough. We bring more than a hundred years of depopulation to our country. It is true that in these past years – and I must say this too – we have started to slow down, and it has been thanks, above all, to this effect of the work, but we also need to do other policies. From urbanism, for example – and in the case of the Garrigues Altes, and the pilot test that we are doing at these times... – we are helping from the perspective of multi-municipal PMS, facilitating, for example, tasks related to urbanism. Or, for example, also with the project of the Garrigues Altes, in concrete, with the rehabilitation of habitat through the Incasòl, of public buildings, to facilitate also the habitatation. Or, in the field of transport, 3 million euros dedicated to this project. We want to do more. And, therefore, we want to go to other countries to make what I always say possible, that this country has to stop being a country « xupa-xups, there..., a country with a very big head and a very small thing, and to balance better all its territory giving equal opportunities, and, therefore, giving opportunities, above all of work, to the people of the small towns of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.49.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the activities relating to the university master's degree in secondary education. [[Ask the Government about activities related to the university master's degree in secondary education]] [[310-00252/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Consellera Geis, the Catalan universities teach the Master's Degree in Education of Secondary Education Compulsory and Batxillerat, Professional Training and Language Teaching, known as the « Master's Degree, since the 2009-2010 course. This professional teacher, which has become necessary, compulsory, in order to be able to access a secondary teaching teaching place, is, as you yourself explain, a system teacher. It is because it is the only one that is shared in a coordinated and agreed between all the universities of our country. And that's why this master has a key mission: to train his students in the best way and with positive ambition because Catalonia has high-level professionals. Professionals who come out of this program with the knowledge necessary for such a long term their task in the field of education with the utmost rigour and knowledge, because the education world is a vertebral element of our society and we have to agree to work there in a very present way. The secondary master's degree is a basic and strategic point for the better of Catalonia's education system. This improvement, which must be constant, must come precisely from the analysis of its needs. And in this sense, we know that a good deal has been done in the development of the master's program and we have been able to work with real data on the teacher's situation. Thus, the need to reconsider the offer of places and the specializations of these studies between the universities of the Catalan university system has been fulfilled in order to improve the adjustment between the offer established and the rejected demand. Because the reality is that, unfortunately, we now have Catalans who have to take this master's degree in universities outside Catalonia, and this constitutes an interbank so much for their cost – much higher than the public price – as for the difference between the course of study and the elements that the own Catalan education system demands in its role as a vertebrator of the Catalan society that we have previously exhibited. We know that this issue has been a priority for you since the beginning of this legislature. And for all this, she advises, from Juntes to Catalunya we ask her what is the contribution that is due to her department's end in the best of the education system through the secondary master's degree. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.51.0	To answer, has the word Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.52.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs... MP Sales, I like you asking this question, because it refers to the bone spring of why the Catalan university system exists. The Catalan university system they want, basically, is to contribute to the better of society. And in this case, the secondary master's degree, as you say, is a country master's degree, a master's degree in structure. We want a country where education policies and knowledge policies are at the centre, but I also understand that being independent is the first one that demands self-requirement. So, here we had a better camp. And also, from this country that we want... we want a country that respects the rights and freedoms. And here today I want to give my support to the students of the Autonomous who were sentenced for the cream of flags, because this judgment of the High Court of Justice and the Supreme Court goes against the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. And I want to, too. [[applause]] ...and today I also want to give support to the cloister of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, because universities cannot be neutral. In their statutes they must complete a mission, which is to vet for the rights and the freedoms of speech, to vet for the Catalan language, to vet for a democratic system. And, therefore, to support the cloister of the UPC, so that it does not position itself before the persecution of the Court of Auditors to Professor Mas-Collell is to go against the own mission of the universities. And returning [[applause]] ... and returning to this country model, we can't afford to let the country's quarry, which are the teachers who do the master's degree..., which we have 1,600 teachers doing a private master's degree outside Catalonia paying eight_thousand_thousand_euros. And what we have done is we have agreed with the university system an increment of places from 2023 to 2024 of thousand places through the Open University of Catalonia, with a regular price of two thousand euros. Why we need teachers for the Catalan education system formats in Catalonia, formats in Catalan language, in linguistic immersion, in Catalan language and school, and with the educational system of our country's education system. Therefore, we are very happy, because this policy is to strengthen the education system of Catalonia, which is to strengthen the Catalan university system. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.53.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the incentius for residents of family and community medicine and infirmary in mental health. [[Ask the Government about the incentives for residents of family and community medicine and infirmary in mental health]] [[310-00253/13]] The question is put by Mr Jordi Fàbrega, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.54.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, thank you for putting data on interventions. Without data we are just one more person with an opinion; Mrs Artadi said it today in a press article. As you know, there is Catalonia, as well as Spain, a difficult problem of availability of certain professionals. A report from the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria indicates that in five years Spain will lack nine thousand meths, especially family medicine and emergency medicine. In Catalonia, the Collège de Metges de Barcelona brings him to denounce the later years. The causes are clear: an offer of university places, first, and MIR places, then clearly insufficient. And that should be added to the retirements of professionals who are already produced and who will be produced in their own years. Forty-three per cent of the active meths are over fifty years old, and one div_per_cent is over sixty years old. In some specialties and disciplines there is currently not enough supply to cover professional needs. If we don't put it down now, in five or two years there won't be any solution. To this problem of professional demography, the territorial perspective must be added. If we now find this problem in metropolitan areas, imagine how we are in rural areas. Dr. Benavent, territorial director of Salut de l'Alt Pirineu, explains to me simulating a pantà, where the Pirineu are the top of the pantà: if at the dam, in Barcelona, there is lack of water, imagine how long ago the Pirineu are already dry. It is very expensive to cover the needs of certain specialists in rural and hilly areas; in fact, in some areas like Lleida, like the Pyrenees or like the Lands of the Ebre, it is a prose. That is why we need to make efforts at different levels: to expand the training offer of degrees and specialists – at this point, it is obvious that it conditions us the competence mark of dependence of the Spanish State– ; that we also get to attract and retain talent in our health centres, and that we can make a balanced territorial distribution according to the needs. The Department of Health announced last week a new measure: the introduction of a fee for residents of family medicine and community medicine and mental health infirmary who trio centres in Catalonia to make the residence. It is a measure that must allow us to move forward in the attraction of talent, and it is a measure that also contemplates an incentive of territorial character. That is why, counselor, from Juntes to Catalunya, where we always defend and defend the territorial balance of the country, we would like to ask you to explain to us in more detail what this incentive program consists of. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.55.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.56.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. In fact, you have already explained it; therefore, I will not be very much there. But from this point of view, what I think is worth remembering is one thing: the pale of our health care system is primary care, and that's what we always say – always. But it is also necessary to move from words to facts. Because it's also true..., and here today we had a meeting with different people – neither will we detail it –..., but we were all somehow thinking of a fact that is giving itself, that is..., the people who are coming in today to do medicine. People with a very high intellectual quality, 13.9 of midjana– 13.9 of midjana– are entering medicine, but the question we have is whether we need people with a 13.9. Surely to do physics and mathematics, yes; to do medicine... Listen, we did... You did too, Congressman Fàbrega, didn't you? [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, a little colza and a... don't you think? And you need other things that are very important. And it's basically family medicine, which is giving you this. On the other hand, we are surely admiring ourselves in the person who makes the last search point, right? And this then translates into society asking us for close attention, attention to the local consultant, attention to the Jewish Lands, to the High Pyrenees, and attention to family medicine. And that's why, because the balling stick is family medicine, it's why we made this decision that you have explained very well and that I won't repeat, that it's: the percentage from a point of view of positive discrimination towards family medicine; two, positive discrimination towards the territories – those who are further removed from the great metropolis are those who must have more cents–; three, come from where people come. And then we have the mental health incentivities, for the mental health infirmary, because it's also one of the other priorities. And the two specialties, that of family medicine – in this case, with doctors and metgesesses – and that of mental salvation – with infirmary – are those who have the most resignations. People take the square and give it up because it's certainly not what I expected. But we have to put these two specialties on the table. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.57.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the real project of the 2030 Winter Olympics. [[Ask the Government about the real project of the 2030 Winter Olympics]] [[310-00246/13]] The question is put by Mr Lucas Ferro, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.58.0	Thank you very much, President. The government has already announced the consultation for the Winter Olympics in full summer, with first and second division districts, and without a telematic vote, all designed to demobilize the citizens and citizens of the Pyrenees, and say that the government will campaign neutrally, as if it did not carry out sustained campaign months and as if you were not keeping track of all the reports. We don't know the Olympic project or the millions we're going to have to allocate. We suppose that because you don't pass with Stockholm, Oslo, Cracóvia, Calgary, Lviv, and we can follow, because in the last two editions you have retired eight from your twelve that you have applied for due to the economic costs. We don't have the environmental report either. At the 2014 Olympic Games in Russia, which is not a tropical country, the eighty_per_cent of the snow was artificial; at 2018 in Korea, the north_per_cent, and the Beijing have followed the first winter games of the snowless history, the hundred_per_cent of the artificial snow, four hundred Olympic water pools, 1_million_cubic meters malarbarated to make the snow. But in Catalonia, the government does not report any forecasts or costs. Do you consider it neutral to convene a consultation without having made public either the Olympic project, or the necessary assumptions to do so, or the environmental impact reports?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.59.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.60.0	Thank you, President. Congressman... well, you're asking me about the real project. The real project neix de l'Ajuntament de Barcelona, in a technical office, in 2010. When you arrive at the mayor's office in 2015, your party, after discussions and plenary..., so this, with discussions held, does not bury the project; on the contrary, this is reality, it transcends, in passing the leadership to the Generality. And, in any case, his political group at the Barcelona Assembly on different occasions has said that the capital is willing to accompany the Pyrenees. This is the current reality. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.61.0	To answer that question, Mr. Lucas Ferro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.62.0	He will advise, if he considers that the Mayor of Barcelona is forcing him to summon them, disavow them, that it is not true... [[Rialles.]] We do not have an environmental impact report, but the Meteorological Service of Catalonia is publishing the environmental forecasts for 2030 and 2050. Pirinius has already lost between thirty and fifty days at least below zero degrees, and is expected to lose 'n_seventy'; less cold and even, less snow and less rain and water reserves. And one day you make a climate summit to explain the effects of climate change and another day you have an airport, Las Vegas in Tarragona and the Winter Olympic Games in the Pyrenees. But neither a public report nor a report on the proposed environmental impact. Until the project, the presupposition and the environmental impact of the Winter Olympics are stored? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.63.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.64.0	Thank you, President. Well, as I said before, the reports are published. They can see them, they're on the web. For another group, the Government of the Generality has explained the proposal for the candidacy of the Pyrenees to the mayors, to the regional councils; we will follow it, to all citizens, to entities, to everyone. It is a good technical proposal, sustainable in all its senses, without speculative elements, as I have explained before. Of course, we will work on all environmental aspects, which we too are concerned about. In any case, we are very clear that we will work together with the gatherings, and so we are doing, and we are very clear what is the arrival that we want to get out of these games, and we will do it with the Pirinius and with the protagonist of Pirinius. And what is more democratic, transparent and real than consulting citizens directly? And that's what I have to say: you didn't do anything to see the Pyrenees, because you didn't validate that decree with which we changed the law of consultation. And they kept it easy, they kept it very easy, because it was so much to consult with us as to consult with us again. We need this change. And, in fact, in a debate about an Olympic Games Movement, you say: "Obviously, it is the people of the Pyrenees who must be able to decide about their future, and add: "because we believe that there are at least some communities that have clearly said that they do want to vote. So, if you want to vote, look for the way to do it, find it, and, if they do, they'll tend to us at their side. Well, we're still waiting for them at our side, because we've visited Berlin, we've visited the Ripollès, the Solsonès; we've listened, we've agreed, we've put in technically and legally viable solutions. And in any case, therefore, I told you that you should be at our side, because you are not the "not at all, certainly, and you have said" yes, with good criteria, to the American Cup. In any case, you are the ones in the management of contradictions. Welcome to the real world. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the management of the new primary care access instruments. [[Ask the Government about the management of new primary care access instruments]] [[310-00242/13]] The question is put by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.66.0	Good morning, Counselor. "Proper medicine," you said. That's why we wanted to ask, not our own, but how health care goes. We enabled a lot of systems and advertising, a lot of access channels to primary care, apps and consultations, My Greeting, and now we're regaining face-to-face. Professionals tell us: "This doesn't work. We are saturated and have no control over our own agenda. And the biggest users are feeling abandoned. The system and its digitization leaves them in the band, they have every time more difficult to access their meth. Counselor, have you planned a review of these systems to ensure patient security and equal access and professional ethical guarantees?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.67.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.68.0	President... Mrs Escarp, you explained it. During the pandemic many tools, many digital tools, have been developed in this case. There are also some elements that are – and this must be made very clear – complementary to access, complementary to access health care, never substitutes. And it's also true, and you've explained, that these complementers have also made many people who have had difficulty accessing..., or having difficulty consulting, because the traditional methods were not there, so to speak, very attractive, at these times they are doing it. And that, of course, can also give this feeling of little control of the agenda to the professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.69.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.70.0	Look, the reality is that phones don't really work. I don't know if it's complementary, but what's obvious is that when a consultation is sent to the eConsultation, the triage makes it an administration following the title. And, therefore, they schedule the agenda that their professional finds themselves with face visits, phone visits and eConsultations that arrive at their hands between two and four days later, and they have found themselves with unanswered urgency. The feeling is that you have consolidated a system from emergence to normal without proper means – without protocols, without ensuring patient safety – and the services and circuits have not adapted. And, above all, they have generalised without addressing the specificities, neither the territorial nor the users' own. They've opened up our channels to all of us. It's hard to hear that a professional says: "A phone diagnosis loses the essence of the medical act; this must coincide with me. But this is a reality that is coming true, and we are deepening inequalities not only in the great people, who feel expelled because they cannot access digitization, but also in people, for example, with idioms, where the professional is talking to the husband– especially women, huh? , that this is woman –, thus breaking the meth-patient confidentiality. Listen, there may be complementarity, but what's obvious is that at some point there's the feeling that this increases accessibility above all other parts of the population. We return, again, to delve into inequality. And I left it to him, to end, counselor, that to hear him say that the increase in the price of energy will be to the detriment of health care only by giving me the right, in the sense that if something is not prioritised in this Government is the salvation of his citizenship. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.71.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.72.0	Let's start with the last one, MP Escarp. I didn't say it was going to hurt health care. What I said is that we're gonna pay the energy bill, and that's what we need to be clear about. And also, in any equipment, we would be paying the energy bill – in any one –, and Hi is not alien to this fact. And it's not for two reasons: the first, because the equipment is – you have to know it and you can imagine it – very big, therefore, air conditioning certain hospitals and centers is because, and second, because we are also great energy consumers, especially in hospitals and especially in certain units, such as intensive care. And this is something that citizens also need to know, because it will not only be safe, it will go all the way – all the way –: at home they are aware, at factories they are aware, and also at Salut we are aware of it. Then I would also give confidence to the professionals. I mean, at this point, we're out of two years of pandemic. Two months ago, just two months ago, the primary care professionals were making 200,000 visits/day– 200,000 visits/day– two years before the pandemic, in fact 95,000. Therefore, it is also true that, from this point of view, we are now also beginning to recover this, among comets, "certain normality. And therefore, from this point of view too, the presence will increase and go giving each time the same service... exactly what we had in the year 19. From this point of view, what we said before: at the table, physical presence is complementary. And the fact that we have people doing a non-medic triage is the same thing we have in 061 and the same thing they're claiming, huh? , the professionals of many years ago, which is called the 1-1-1 UBA, which the third 1 is this health administration. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.73.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of education. [[Ask the Government about the situation of education]] [[310-00243/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, this dillon appearance to the Education Commission, a appearance on which my group asked you to reflect on the educational situation, which you think may be that, in a context characterized not by the details of 2012, only by important transfers from the Spanish Government and the European Union, and also seeing the end of a pandemic that has absorbed the educational centers..., in the proper years..., in a context, therefore, much more favorable than at other times, the educational malaise was so important, so shared and so unitary against it. It is given to a great extent to its forms, to want to impose educational changes without taking into account or even against those members who will deploy it – masters, teachers, directions –, and also to improvisation and insufficient resources that, despite all, still flow in educational matter. In the last plenary we asked for a dialogue, we asked him to reach agreements with the educational community to give tranquillity to the centres and professionals, which must be focused on his pocket, and to work also to ensure a good course 22-23. And today we have no agreement on the table, and the positions seem to be still long. And we don't want to tell him what to do, but we will. First of all, why don't you listen to what the School Council of Catalonia told you, who postponed one year the progress of this calendar to make it well done? You yourself recognize that it is unclear what will be the offer you will give in the afternoons of September, how you will manage it and how you will guarantee fairness and quality. And, second of all, why isn't the recovery of the lectual time that the same parties that are members of this government today have agreed to 2017 and have not completed, not course 23 or 24, the proper course, for primary and secondary? And if the current assumption does not allow it, they make an extraordinary contribution, that from my group we would gather, because we would be talking about a three-per-cent assumption, when we already know what the LEC says. But, look, counselor, from our group we have shown that we do not do electoralism and we are clear that education must be a priority, and we ask for a change of attitude, that it is flexible and that it promotes agreement. And, in addition, today we are reaching out to your Government for a course of education, for the recovery of teachers' working conditions, for the deployment of the inclusive education system immediately, for a professional training at the height of the production model we want, that I did not repeat the mistakes of the past, and, in addition, that guarantees sufficient funding for this zero-three stage of education and the compromise to universalize. If you really believe that education is a priority, if you share these ideas, if you think that we can contribute to the necessary education and if we can thus guarantee a good course 22-23, my group is in the hands of your government, thinking about the best for education and our children and young people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.75.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Niubó, I've said it on other occasions: we understand the discomfort. We understand the discomfort because we come from two years of pandemic that have not been easy people and have been very complicated at the educational centers. We got it, we kept the schools open, the schools safe, but it wasn't easy. And we also understand the discomfort because we come from more than two years ago. From the Department of Education, always dial. When I appeared, I said: you will find no example... you have the calendar; we have the calendar... we have four reports from the school board; it was made, the last few years, a pedagogical debate. They won't find any examples where we haven't been talking and where we haven't been looking for consent. We've done it all these months, and we've done it more than ever. We won't rise from the table. We haven't gotten up, nor will we get up from the table. And in this we agree – at the appearance we also say –, we want an agreement. We have made agreed proposals, up to three agreed proposals, and we are convinced that we will reach an agreement. We regret that the unions have not been presented at the last five months. And we're convinced that they're working as soon as possible, because things are dialog and consensus. You said... For what it does to the complaints of the call for a vacancy, we give an answer, within this legislature, to the fourteen complaints, and seven of these complaints, to the next school year. Five hundred and millions of euros to give him a response. We're in front of the highest education assumption in history. In view of this timing, with these answers we reduce the rates. We're making a macropale of plant stability. Let's turn thirds into mitts. So, what we're doing is responding to historical, long-standing, educational community demands, and starting to reverse the detail. Let's cut the school hour out of this legislature. Fem reduction of two hours to majors of fifty-five years. We increase the staff of direct assistance with the equipment that is requested from the trade union representation. We are increasing the offer of vocational training. We're moving through with the résumés. We defend linguistic immersion at cent_per_cent. As a counselor, I said that the body to be addressed is the Education Department, to this counselor, and we deploy a decree to close the model and to provide legal protection to directors and linguistic projects. And we've made real negotiations. For what he does to the calendar, it's a good measure for alumni. We all agree. It's a good measure for families. Reconciliation to 100_per_cent: same hours for infants in September as in October. I, therefore, welcome you, thank you, to the consensus, to the platform. We're obviously picking up the glove. And we will continue to work, as we have always done, to make the decisions of the highest consensus. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.77.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on incidents involving the autonomous breathing teams of the Generality's Bomber Cos. [[Ask the Government about the incidents with the autonomous breathing teams of the Generality's Bomber Cos]] [[310-00244/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Judit Alcalá, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.78.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I wanted to express to him the concern of my parliamentary group about the exhaustion of news related to the autonomous breathing teams of the Bombers Cos. For this reason, we want to know what is the capture of his government in relation to the incidents with these teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.79.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.80.0	[[The counselor begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...speaker. First of all, to express thanks for the question, because it allows us to explain a question that, indeed, has also concerned us, and very, and busy, very much, because it is a topic that should be resolved. Indeed, at the beginning of the month of December it became apparent, there were a few errors, a couple of errors, in some of the devices of a particular mark. And the first one he did was to remove, from that mark, all the breathing teams assisted. And, naturally, at the same time, communicate to all parks, both voluntary and professional, what were the instruments, mechanisms and ways to ensure security, given this circumstance. Then, later, all parks were asked to explain what incidents had occurred. And when we found out that a few more had occurred, what we decided was that we should all review, which in a few weeks will be resolved, and then, naturally, systematically reiterate this information and training to all parks to ensure complementary security, given this situation. And all, do it, naturally, with transparency. It is to say, for one band, communicating – and, in this sense, from abroad there have been four meetings with union representatives to give to know what the situation is – and, for another, I reiterate, inform, inform and inform the different parks of the situation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.81.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Judit Alcalá.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.82.0	Thank you, President. I appreciate your answer, counselor, but we find ourselves before a very serious issue, a matter of life or death of the body of firefighters and firefighters. Life or death, because the faults of these teams can cause asphyxiation to the bomber and the firefighter. And his department was already aware of this fact, but he did, for a lot of what you say. A 2020 Bombers technical report already reported on the defects of these teams, and you don't say: they include new spacers and blisters by emergency contract. Counselor, the reports of year 2020 and 2022 are kept secret until the month of fever, which is filtered. And I remind him that this comes out in the light thanks to the Squad Coast, that they have the telephones punched because they are investigating the company Iturri about possible irregularities in truck contracts, and captures the conversations between commanders and the ERA teams. And this... we're talking about the September 2021. The unions are the ones who brought this case to the public prosecutor's office. Counselor, we need to speed up the review of all teams. And they all say because they have only withdrawn part of it, and they have withdrawn all the blisters of the air..., there are some that have not withdrawn – forgive me. Meanwhile, what do we do, counselor? If it's dilated at the time this complex situation, do we think the sayings why don't you pass a fatal accident? Did you find out if there were any incidents involving these breathing teams this week? Did you find out, Counselor? Counselor, we would also like to know if you have ordered any internal investigation to clarify what has happened to these teams, and, if not, if you intend to do so. Miri, from the deepest respect I have, I want to tell you that there is not enough to withdraw a few teams ERA and stay away from us. There is not enough to say that corrective measures have already been taken and will apply them when. There's no way he's in the prosecution, because we're ahead of a Category 3 – Category 3 – PPE, which is designed to protect them from a deadly risk. And it's a very difficult issue, counselor, that I think we should share all of this room. And you're not the most responsible, and we haven't seen any political responsibility cleansed. And in politics, there are not enough speeches, as a fan; actions, actions are coming to an end. And I just said it there, counselor: maybe there's nothing darker and more conservative than not explaining what's really going on, especially when the lives of the working and volunteer firefighters in Catalonia are at stake. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.83.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.84.0	[[The counselor begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] Right now? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. I share that action must actually be taken. Who were they? First of all, check all the compressors, and that's already been done. Review the teams, all the teams, the totality of the teams, on the part of the providers, and at the same time contract the review of all the teams externally, and at the same time the maintenance of all the teams, also lock in the recharging of the teams to ensure all the traceability, which until now did not exist. This will be resolved at the end of May. And, at the same time, acquire four hundred more spacers and seven hundred more ampoules, that in fifteen days we will have half of them, and the rest, in the proper weeks, to guarantee... A 2_million-euro reversal that..., in six weeks will probably be all solved. Indeed, it was a matter of concern to us. And, as we were concerned, he occupied us with all determination. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.85.0	Yes, Mrs. Vilalta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.86.0	Yes, President. I would ask you to agree with Rule 90 on the observance of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular with regard to Article 14, which regulates the guiding principles of Members' rights, and also Article 87, in allusions to a member of our parliamentary group during this monitoring session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.87.0	I donate thirty_seconds to answer the allusions I ask for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.88.0	Thank you very much, President. In this sense, we told him that Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia regulates the duties of the deputies, and these guiding principles..., one of which is respect, and sometimes also the code of conduct. It also speaks explicitly, the code of conduct of the Members, that the conduct must be absolutely respectful with other Members of this House. So, today in this session of control, direct references have been made to a Member of our parliamentary group, in concrete terms, to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament of Catalonia, giving rise to suspicions of corruption and comparing it with the..., finally, with the attitude and the actions of the President of Madrid, Isabel Díaz Ayuso, and silenced the honorability, in this sense. And we don't think it's all right, and that's why we'd like to ask you, president, if it can make it possible for you to withdraw this comment from Congresswoman Grau. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.89.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vilalta. Mrs. Grau, you are given the opportunity, if you so wish, to withdraw this accusation that you made from the session diary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.90.0	Yes, Madam President. So yes, for allusions... I made a rhetorical figure. It's true, I don't have any evidence that Mrs Vergés's parent has been selling masks for the time being. It's also true that we don't have any information on where the masks come from. What I wanted to outsource is the lack...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.91.0	Mrs. Grau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.92.0	...transparency [[remorse of the voice]] We're coming in with the masks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.93.0	Mrs. Grau, please... ma'am Grau, you don't have the word. I've only asked him... [[Widow's remorse.]] I asked him not if he has or has no information, but that the words that came out of his mouth make an insinuation that went much further than a rhetorical figure..., wants to remove them from the diary of sessions. Answer affirmatively or negatively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.94.0	I want to clarify them, as I explained to you. And that I'm an insinuation is an opinion of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.95.0	It's not the time for clarification, just withdrawal or not. It has become clear that he does not want to remove them from the session logbook. Thank you. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the valuation of the words of the Chairman of the SEAT Committee of Enterprise concerning the proposal to reverse the Martorell plant made by the Government]] [[317-00138/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.96.0	Yes, thank you, President. The chairman of the SEAT company committee has pointed out that the proposals of the Generalitat for the installation of the battery plant have come too late. How do you value these statements, President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.98.0	Thank you very much, President. The Government of Catalonia, on various occasions, both in the last legislature, for knowledge and in my own, as well as in this one, has offered proposals for land, proposals for location and for all administrative facilities. And in any case, there was finally a business decision in another direction. And we will continue to make proposals to all companies that are willing to invest in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.99.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.100.0	Thank you. He pointed out that the chairman of the SEAT company committee has denounced that the proposals of the Generalitat de Catalunya regarding the installation of the battery plant had arrived too late. They are not the only expressions in this sense: since UGT in Catalonia disappointment has also been shown. In short, Sagunto has done his duties and you have not. There is no use in the grandiose speeches about re-industrialisation, ad hoc commissions..., if then a favourable climate is not realized for it. And, with high taxes and incomparable bureaucratic obstacles, there is no favourable climate that is worth it. And there is also a political issue that overwhelms the issue, which are gestures, trust and institutional reliability. I am unable to determine the exact percentage of responsibility that can be attributed to this SEAT decision to the boycott that you made to visit the king's factory, but help..., I tell you that doesn't help. Moreover, those scorns are paid for, because bad education is paid for. Believing that you were boycotting the king of Spain, you were actually boycotting SEAT and, worse still, your fifteen thousand workers and families. It is his prejudicious attitude, pre-adolescent and incompatible with the common good, because a good ruler never puts his ideological prejudices ahead of the common good. A good ruler even sacrifices his personal position at the service of the community. Politicians have institutional obligations that go beyond our parties. When you at the beginning of the legislature quoted me to your office, I came. Do you think it was very funny for me to end up posing with you? But you're the president of the Generalitat, even if I don't like it, and that's why I went to fulfill my institutional obligations. Well, you, exactly the same. Or do you think you're different? Or do you think you are superior to others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.102.0	Thank you, President. Listen to me, if he does so much to come to the office, he doesn't go through with it, he tells me and we can find another place. [[Widow's remorse.]] The important thing is to be able to listen to their proposals, even their opinions, when they are wrong, as is the case, right? Inversion and location decisions of an inversion are taken by many factors. In the first place, for example, for proximity to transport issues. I would like to remind you that one of the issues that has spread the investment in the automotive sector has been, for example, the difficulties of developing the Mediterranean Corridor. This was one of the causes that led Nissan at the time not to accelerate what was the investments on the plant and then, by many other factors, also ended up causing the closure of this plant. Then there are no others, such as energy costs, proximity with the suppliers or conditions of the land. We have been offering proposals from the Lleida comarques to municipalities on the coast of the Martorell plant or to areas suitable for Camp de Tarragona. And these proposals have been valued. The questions – and therefore it is a decision of the company to respect – have therefore been that there are other locations that they consider appropriate. What is relevant is that we have managed that what is the manufacture of electric vehicles is done to Martorell's factory, on the part of SEAT – this is very relevant – the ones that will be small; what we have to achieve is that they can also be the ones that are more important. That's what we're going with with the whole training bet. We've solved the question of Martorell's Automotive Professional Training Center, and we'll follow it. We will continue to work with all companies in all sectors that want to invest in Catalonia. And the show is that the results in terms of GDP and growth in Catalonia are kept above the Spanish average. And that's not to get even, but it's just to see that things are also good and accept when things are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.103.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the agreement and consultation for the nomination for the Winter Olympics of 2030]] [[317-00137/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.104.0	Mr President, do you realize that, with your hesitations and the lack of leadership that characterizes you, and between consultation and consultation, you are putting at risk a project as important for Catalonia as the Olympic Winter Games of 2030?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.106.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we are in compliance with what this Parliament is proposing. Planted three times, he's approved that this project was under consultation, and that's what we do. Second place, we've been working. He did not hear me raise my voice or contribute, when there were presidents of other territories who have done so, with very harsh words..., against the majority of Members of this Parliament. I haven't gotten into this dynamic, and what I've done is work so I can come to a good deal. It is an agreement which, I don't know, perhaps turns out that all of us are suffering, but the Government of the State, therefore, participates in this agreement for the distribution of evidence, the Olympic Committee of the State also does it, the Government of Catalonia does it, the Government of the Aragó also did it in which the technical meetings were held – finally, after they have decided, politically, to demarcate themselves. So it's a good deal. It is an agreement that must allow us to make the most competitive bid in these 2030 Winter Olympic Games that we want to achieve for the Pyrenees with support and with the endorsement of the citizenship of the Pyrenees. That's why we'll consult them. And some games that clearly need to be sustainable, because they leave an arrival in the form of economic diversification and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.107.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.108.0	Look, Mr Aragonès, what we think is that you are afraid that there will be another success in Catalonia such as Barcelona 92. They seem to be afraid of the triumph of cooperation and solidarity. And you are the president of the Generalitat of Catalonia, you must lead. And, instead of leading and pooling efforts as they did in their day as different people, from such different backgrounds as Samaranch and Maragall, who were able to form an alliance between civil society and the institutions at that time, as Sergi Doria explained to us yesterday, and in the end resulted from this, from those alliances, a successful candidacy for Barcelona, for Catalonia and for all of Spain, you, on the other hand, are boycotting the alliance with Aragon and subjecting the decision to a consultation to six regions, six regions that have the same population of Castelldefels. And do you imagine that Castelldefels would have been given the veto over the 92nd Olympic Games because it was there to build the Olympic Channel? And what happens is that you don't care so much about these Winter Olympics as you did about the European Medicines Agency, the second track of the Llobregat Prat or this Volkswagen battery factory you were talking about a moment ago. And, on the other hand, you have treated our Aragonese compatriots with a lack of loyalty, with opacity and pride, and have aroused, as it cannot otherwise be, an answer of mistrust and fatigue. Is it so difficult to assume a joint candidacy, on an equal footing, with Aragon, a community with which historical, social, cultural, sentimental and economic ties are very important? I already know that this breaks the mental schemes of separatism, of "we will teach our mountain, of repression and all those herbs, but assume it, Mr Aragonès, the Catalans we understand with our fellow Aragonese citizens and with the rest of our Spanish compatriots. Stop playing to be a state. Take on the reality of what Catalonia will be in 2030, a Spanish autonomous community that you are trying to take away from us and to go into decay. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.110.0	Thank you. Can I have a little respect for the citizens of the Pyrenees? And what if...? [[Greetings.]] What if there are so many inhabitants like Castelldefels? All respect for the citizen of Castelldefels, too. What if there are as many inhabitants as Castelldefels? Is it that they cannot have an opinion, and express it, about the convenience or not of a project that will have an impact on their territory? Or is it because they're few, according to you, we don't have to take them into account? I think we need to have a little respect. And then don't miss the truth. Here is an agreement that we have signed by the Government of the State, the Government of Catalonia, the Spanish Olympic Committee, and Aragó has not signed it. Therefore, if this does not pull forward, listen to me, do not ask the Government of Catalonia, the Spanish Olympic Committee, or the Government of the State. That you have to assume that with these other institutions we do not share a good part of the political ideology that may be there, especially with the Government of the State, but we have reached an agreement. Therefore, listen to me, here who has unmarked us we have not been; who has validated a technical position and then politically changed we have not been. Therefore, I believe that you must also honor the truth. You want to take advantage of this subject, you have to have it... I've known it many days, to try to attack, but, listen to me, it's unattainable. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.111.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the petition for the dismissal of the Education Councillor for the lack of agreement with the educational community]] [[317-00141/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, on February 17, our country's educational unions shut down the Department of Education to ask for dialogue and agreements. Fifty days later – fifty days later – and five days off for the middle, so it still doesn't get to this dialog, and above all, it doesn't get to these agreements. And so, practically after two months of crisis in the education of our country, we want to know if you consider that Councillor Cambray should follow the lead of the Department of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.114.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.115.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.116.0	So president, you must be the only one, because the educational community does not lack reason, it cannot be denied. And, above all, it's also an acclaim, and it's that when they're defending their working conditions, they're also defending the welfare of the student and the quality of public education, for a lot of perverse speeches that you do. Now you said... yesterday, in fact, you made a call to resume negotiations. And we celebrate it, we rejoice, but we would demand that they do so with more humility than on other occasions. Because, President, when I asked you on the 23rd of February in this very plenary for the educational crisis, you literally said: "We want to work with as much consent as possible with everyone, but we don't have to make decisions. We take political decisions. Well, president, it's still out of line with the unions and the families, who are already preparing new actions. There are no Joint Members who are asking the Education Councillor for a dialogue and agreement. The PSC has already said that it has a critical view of the management that the counselor is doing. And the CUP and in common we may be asking for the councillor's resignation. Therefore, President, you are alone, you are absolutely alone in this matter. And we would like to know until when – until when – I believe that in two months we have not lacked patience in the country to resolve this issue, when, moreover, we are talking about a collection that is very tense, that is supporting one of the most critical pillars of our country, such as education, and that has triggered a crisis after the other. And that's why, President, we're asking you for two things. The first is that I took over the kingdoms, that I took over the kingdoms of this crisis, that it began as an educational crisis and that it has become almost a crisis of government. And the second is that I quit the counselor. And it's nothing personal with the counselor, in any case, but it's clear that either by unwillingness or inability is not working, it's not working. And what our country needs are solutions, answers and agreements. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.118.0	Thank you very much, President. We have convened five sectoral months in the field of education. Five _months. In these five, the trade union representation has decided not to participate in it; we hope that there will be a willingness to participate in it. For our part, he can't tell us we haven't moved. Miri, first demand, sis_per_cent of GDP in education as a minimum. It is obvious that you know, and you know it because they make general assumptions of the State and have worked on the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, that this is not one day for another, but we work to advance on this objective. And they won't tell me that the guany assumption is not the highest assumption in education. Restoring the lectual schedule, the one that existed before 2012. It has an impact of 170_million euros. It's like building forty institutes. Therefore, it is not a decision to take courage. What we propose is to schedule it – September 23, to children and primary school; September 24, to secondary school – in order to be able to continue other activities in the field of education. Reduction of wattage. For the first time in the history of Catalonia's education the ratio of P3, the next course, will be twenty students. How many times has this Parliament asked for it? So now it's the first time that it's happened. And we're going to keep it up every year because as a vagina pushes up student cohorts, we keep a couple of twenty students together. Converting thirds of the day into middays. Done. It'll start in September. Return to the lecturing character of two reduction hours for the 50-year-old major, scheduled for September 24. Increase of the personnel of direct attendance to the student for the course that sees: 216 PAS and 890 teachers. The first stage in the field of purchasing power or the calculation of purchasing power again in six years has an economic impact of 180_million euros; therefore, from some other place we will have to draw resources. Remove the order from the seedlings. We won't. Public and quality VET. We have more skills than ever in the field of FP, and the course you will have more. The calendar is a good measure for the student and we have to keep it. And, therefore, I think it's absolutely positive. And I'd like to consider that to this extent... I'd like to know that the opinion of families is not exactly that of withdrawal. The stability of the staff involved. We'll make more opposition than ever. And no to the new curriculum-- Miri, on the bright side of the curriculum calendar is marked by a law passed by the Spanish government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.119.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the proposal to amend the law on language policy relating to the model of linguistic immersion in education]] [[317-00142/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.120.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. You said yesterday, and I quote literally: "The feeling of twenty-five_per_cent breaks the consensus of linguistic immersion, and that is why the Government of the Generality responds to it by renewing the great linguistic consensus. At the same time, the fact that the agreement is presented between the parliamentary groups of the Government and the PSC and the commons, the spokesman of the PSC, Mrs Eva Granados, ensured that the proposal presented compliments the feeling that it obliges to offer a minimum of twenty-five percent of the teaching in castle. What are we staying at, president?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.122.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, we will defend the model of Catalan school, a model in which languages do not go of percentages, but of capacity and learning; not of percentages, but of learning of these languages with all of them. And that clearly means strengthening the language that is in a more weakened situation. And in this case, for the socio-linguistic context, for the social use, for the ability to use and learn, this is the Catalan language. This is the purpose of changing the language policy law to renew the consensus; a consensus that can obviously be improved and expanded – we are at your disposal to talk about it. But also what you say is that the measures we have to do must give legal certainty to the teachers. We cannot lay down measures that we know will be annulled at the end of two days and that will not give the legal certainty that you claim and that we share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.123.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.124.0	This proposal, the president, has made a mockery of everyone and will have negative consequences for social cohesion, because it will contribute to the increase of linguistic segregation, will make school segregation difficult and will violate the right to learn and use catalá to a good part of the population. His apologies do not convince us, for the more media campaign they do, for the more arguments they give us. You pass as a measure of protection what is a measure that will be irreversible, an irreversible step backwards, with consequences that are very difficult both in national and social claus. Because, yes, this proposal, this law agreed between the governing groups, the PSC and In Comú Podemos, with Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia, adopts the legal mark of twenty-i-fivec_per_cent. And with this proposal you are making is to give law rank – law rank – to this Catalanophobic deria of Spanishism that have embodied Mr. Wert, the PP, the Ciutadans campaigns, and have joined the VOX cream and now the PSC. Years ago we said that immersion is a country consensus and an international pedagogical model. Now you're coming to the language. We're at Any Fuster; we're not tired of quoting that all the politics we don't do to ourselves are against us. What we didn't count on is that against us you're serious about participating in it. We have a responsibility with all the forefathers who saved our language, who saved our words, a responsibility with the Catalan Countries, who have this backbone that we share for social cohesion – essential – and a responsibility against linguistic segregation that stifles inequalities. Please, I'll take this away from you and we'll work for an authentic consensus. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.126.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, we don't come to the language. We're not coming to the language. [[Some applause.]] I can accept discrepancies, I can accept that I have an opinion..., I can understand that I have a critical position with respect to the proposals, but they can't tell us that we come to the language. I would never say that of you when I disagree with your proposals. You can't question that. I think if... I mean, if we leave here, it'll be impossible, the deal. Where do we have to go? We have to start from the defense of the current model, which is a model that has a broad political consensus. The broad political consensus means that language must not just be on its own, it must be on everyone's side. The language is not of the independenceists alone, it is of the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. And I'm convinced that in this you coincide with me at one hundred per cent. So reinforce it: social consensus, pedagogical consensus. And, therefore, when it is said that the language projects are to be adapted, among other things, to the socio-linguistic context, it is not for those places where the Catalan language is more minority..., it is minority in school, but it is to do the opposite. And, knowing how our country's schools are, it's obvious which language will be strengthened, which is the Catalan language. Many more questions need to be asked. The learning model of the Catalan language and in the Catalan language at school must be strengthened. Then, I won't paraphrase Fuster now, but either we regulate or they regulate the courts. Therefore, let us rule, that we will always do so in favour of the model that we have jointly defended. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.127.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the model of insecurity and lack of freedom in Catalan cities]] [[317-00139/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.128.0	Mr Aragonès, will you do something to prevent our cities from ending up like Marseille, one of the most dangerous European cities in Europe?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.130.0	We will work for the defense of security, of equal opportunities, of the struggle against the poor. First, because we believe that, because we believe that our society deserves it, and we need to be able to guarantee these rights for all citizens. And also – perhaps not as important as the first, because the first is a question of principles, but... – for a question of opportunity: we know that when there is poverty, when there is inequality, and when this results in situations of insecurity, which ends up winning Marseille is the National Front. Therefore, we will also work because the National Front here, said VOX, never won. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.131.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.132.0	Mr. Aragonès, a government under submission, ruined institutions and the future of generations and generations of Catalans mortgaged; that will be his political epitaph. The failure of multicultural societies, palpable already throughout Europe, Mr Aragonès, is a reality that they seem unwilling to assume, to which they look elsewhere and which you reinforce with decisions that rouse the delirium, such as, for example, the recent taken by the Institute of Public Security, adapting the schedule to Muslims who wanted to live the Ramadan. Subjected to the dogmas of the politically correct, they refuse to see what they have before their eyes and allow anomalies that directly attack the general interest of Catalans. That is true, they have all the media machinery on their side, with the absolute support of all the major media, and also, now, with those technological giants who have tried to whitewash and take responsibility for those terrorist cells that they recently attacked in our cities. Your problem is that reality is clumsy, Mr Aragonès, and what happens in our cities and in our neighborhoods gives for several seasons of terror one of your superproductions. The conclusion is clear: the injured are always the Catalans on foot. The victims of their suicide policies are workers, families and all those who simply want to live free, safe and with some prosperity, Mr Aragonès. That's right, now I guess you'll come out and tell us that the problem is integration, right? Well, no. It's not a problem of integration. Don't lie. It is an anomaly to try to impose a kind of society that denies freedom to thousands of people because of their sex or sexual orientation. It is a real mistake to encourage street crime, violence and social exclusion with its inaction and migration policies. It's a mistake, Mr. Aragonès. It is a gigantic mistake that we will soon put an end to. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.134.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Normally, I don't appreciate VOX's questions, but in this case I appreciate the opportunity to congratulate all Muslim Catalans. [[Some applause.]] And I also take advantage, because this year coincides on calendars, to congratulate also the Diumenge of Rams and the Easter that sees the entire Christian community of Catalonia. This shows that we are a diverse country. I suppose the extreme right is not appreciated by various cultural societies. When they tried to reshape this cultural diversity of our societies, they were accompanied by authoritarianism, more segregation, civil cohesion and absolute repression. What divides our society is not culture. What divides our society is not religion – those who have it and those who do not have it, and among religions. What divides our society is neither language nor origin. What divides our society, and we have to conjure ourselves to fight it, is the poor, is the inequality of opportunity. It is when a person is denied, for the company's own dynamics, that he/she has a project of life of fullness to be as he/she is. And, therefore, our obligation is to fight this, to create a society with equal opportunities, with rights for everyone and with dues for everyone, obviously. But if not right women, it's very difficult to demand dues. And, therefore, we will continue to compromise on this. Although certain minorities do not like them, we will continue to defend a country for everyone, where everyone can express, even those who want to silence us all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.135.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the project and the consultation for the nomination for the Winter Olympic Games of 2030]] [[317-00144/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.136.0	Thank you very much, President. Most honorable President, members of the Government, deputies and deputies... Freedom for Catalonia. This was the banner with which Councilman Quim Forn and political prisoners came out of Lledoners' prison less than a year ago. Freedom for Catalonia. This was the same message of the campaign that many young people, among them Quim Forn, promoted with motivation of the Olympic Games of Barcelona 92. This initiative was the first great act of self-affirmation of national consciousness of a whole generation, which, in the mark of a world event like games, claimed: "We want to be a free country. No one can doubt the international projection of the 92 Games, and still less question the success they represented. Barcelona became a modern city, not as it is now, with the Colau, which felt contrary. Now, with the candidacy of the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees 2030 we have a new opportunity that we also need to take advantage of to boost in all areas the communities of the Pyrenees, to accelerate projects that improve the quality of life of citizens, to guarantee balance and territorial cohesion, to project Catalonia also from outside Barcelona, and, above all, to situate the Pyrenees in the world. This must be the experience of the games, organized and executed with sustainable criteria, of respect to the territory and also democratic. For this reason, as we have always defended, Together for Catalonia we celebrate that the convening of the government-driven consultation will enclose the new communities involved. Junts' position for Catalonia is public and notoriety. As it is obvious, let us announce in his parliamentary office that we will make an active campaign in favor of the yes. We say yes to the games, yes to the Pyrenees, because we say yes to Catalonia. From Juntos to Catalunya we want to reaffirm that we will continue to work because the Winter Games of the Pyrenees 2030 are a reality and a new success of country, of pride of country and of collective self-esteem. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.138.0	Many thanks, President – which I said earlier, Member – and Member of the Commission. Mr. MP, Mr. Batet, I thank you for the position of Junts for Catalonia on the side of the proposal that has been put forward for the Government, and, in fact, the decree has already been signed for myself, as President, so that you can bring this consultation to an end with a question to the six communities of Pirinius and Aran, and a question also about the involvement of the games to the other three regions – the Ripollès, the Berguedà and the Solsonès – about whether or not they want to get involved in this project. The proposal we are making makes it possible to consult the citizenry. To situate the High Pirine and the Aran, who are the protagonists, the ones who will also star in the games, tend the trials to their communities..., therefore, the neighbor also have a very important part in the decision. And, at the same time, we listen to the opinion of these three other communities that had shown it to us. And I think we found a formula that allowed us to marry all the volunteers that were on the table. From here, the Winter 2030 Olympic Games project is a very important project and an excellent opportunity. Unlike previous editions, there is a clear commitment to sustainability in this issue, because the Government of Catalonia wants it, because the rest of the actors who participate in it want it, because the International Olympic Committee wants it. Therefore, let's not go to infrastructures that after being unserviceable, it is not going to do urban speculation operations; activity that favored the territory and that arrived. This is important for the projection also of the Pyrenees as an important destination, not only touristic, but also for living there and diversifying its economy, which in the end means bringing more opportunities to the territory. He also wants to say an impression of those infrastructures that are pending connections with the Pyrenees and correspond in good part to the General Administration of the State, which there is, therefore, the compromise to speed up its execution. So I celebrate your support. I would like to thank Councilwoman Vilagrà and Councilwoman Alsina, who are the two advisors who are at the head of the two departments that will rotate the whole question of the consultation, its implication. And, therefore, we are going to work because this is a project that is made real and that I reverted to the quality of life of the citizens of the Pyrenees, which are few but very important...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.139.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.140.0	...even though some don't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.141.0	...president. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to guarantee social rights at school]] [[317-00143/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Jové. The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.142.0	We understand each other, with Mr. Illa, but not so much, huh? (Laughter) Thank you, President. President... That education in the first years of life is also a right and free, especially for pedagogical criteria, but also for social justice, because it is a measure against educational inequalities; because it favors social cohesion, reconciliation and even all birth, and because it touched. That infantile 2, that is to say, P2, is free to attend our own school, president. It is true that the last few days there has been a lot of fun and discomfort, that we listen to, that we gather and that we want to catch, because what we want to do is the educational transformation that the country needs; a quality education that you put on for creativity, knowledge, the acquisition of basic skills, quality, and therefore public. That, apart from social contexts, all children in this country viscose the school as a tool of empowerment to a vital project worthy and beneficial. And the gratuity of I2 is a key piece to achieve this goal. In fact, it would be unfair to ignore that for the first time to reverse the flaps supposes not only to recover services, but to advance socially with the country. And that means reducing school fees, going from twenty-five students to twenty-five, but it also means that the cost of the youngest children to the public school does not fall into the families' pockets, and that the cost is rationalized to the rest of the places, if we do not get there with public places. Republican values are this: making things happen and transforming society to make it fairer. Ours is a race for equal opportunities and social justice to keep them all, to keep everything, that without rights there is no country. This is why we are sure to achieve measures such as the gratuitousness of I2 universal rights and is a collective, republic and country success. As must the protection of català and recover its social use in school, with measures that strengthen and strengthen the model of catală education and that lengthen the courts of the classrooms. We need to re-edit the social and political consensus around the Catalan school and the català as a tool of social cohesion, and we can get its implementation and momentum to be a reality, and not just a slogan. All in all, president, what bet does your government make to guarantee more social rights through school? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.144.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, I compromised myself, in the investment debate, that we would advance in the gratuity of zero-three and do so, and we did so in the first opportunity we have, which is in course 2022-2023. The I2, therefore, will be free to public schools; by reducing the cost in a very significant way to private schools. We have compromised ourselves with this transformation for many reasons. For a question of equal opportunities, because it is a very important stage in the formation of people and it is a stage in which, if there is an educational intervention, there is an adequate schooling, the potential for growth from the intellectual point of view of learning languages, it is..., of socialization, is very great. And, therefore, at this time this was limited by the economic capacity of families. And we want to build a country where we can keep all the future ahead, regardless of whether your family has economic resources or not. And, this discrimination that's there for economic reasons in our country, from the smallest, we have to work to get it back, and that's what we do. But it's not the only measure we're doing. Also for the youngest in our country, in the area of P3, an environment that needs care, that needs a lot of proximity work, needs to work very well with the student, with its potential, because there are various potentials, we have always convinced that the presence of more than one teacher in the classroom or the reduction of rates, or the two additions, have a very great potential. So let's start doing it. We did, of course, because, from the point of view of the demographic evolution..., it allows us to do so, but even with the current demographic evolution we have been able to choose to keep up to twenty-five and redistribute these teachers to other needs in the realm of childhood and primary. And we decided to keep the rates up, and this is a very good measure. The eighty-six_per_cent of the offer will be at twenty, and the ninety-nine_per_cent, less than twenty-five. So it's a very important step. This Parliament has also approved many times to stop funding the sex-secreting schools, and by September they will stop being funded. They are just some examples of the educational transformation that we are making, that we will continue to make and that we are absolutely compromised, because it is the guarantee of equal opportunities for everyone. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.145.0	And now, he asks the President of the Generalitat to respond orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the measures taken with a view to the war in Ukraine and the offer of cooperation in defence of European values for the war crimes committed there]] [[317-00140/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.146.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès... the images we've seen of Butxa impress. They're intolerable. They're crimes, they're war crimes. The shocking report that in yesterday Volodimir Zelenski, president of Ukraine, at the Congress of Deputies does not leave indifferent, can not leave indifferent, has not to leave indifferent anyone. The defense of European values, of our values, attacked for Vladimir Putin is at stake. In order to defend European values, the first thing that is needed is the will, the disposition and determination to do it, to defend them, to defend us. And, therefore, to bear the cost, the price, of this defense, and to distribute it equitably to our society. Yesterday, his government, following... the European Council's agreements of the 24th and 25th of March and the response plan of the Government of Spain, took action in this regard. They are correct measures – correct measures – but, I think..., in my judgment, I think they are insufficient. I want to think, Mr Aragonès, that they are a first set of measures. Mr. Aragonès, is your government willing to approve a _second or successful package of measures and to take into consideration the proposals of the response plan that some groups, among them, that I chair, have brought to you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.147.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I agree that the situation is difficult. It's hard from the human point of view. What has happened in Ukraine and the consequences of the army's operations are extremely difficult. They are war crimes, and therefore deserve all the proper response under this circumstance. That is why I repeat once again solidarity and support, in the name of the people of Catalonia, for the people of Ukraine and for their government. From here, we must not forget that there are also economic and social consequences arising from the rise in prices, the disruption of the chain of sub-administrations. That's why we approved a first set of measures. Yesterday I announced that it would be a first package of measures, per import of 120_million euros. Obviously, we want to do more, because we need to do more. It's important to be able to count on resources. That's why I didn't have to give the President of the Government of the State the opportunity to spend more money on the Catalonian Government, as the State is doing, and to move from 0.6 per cent to per cent of the deficit. This would allow us to have 1,000_million more euros to solve some things, such as the lack of the coveted fund for this year, which we are also bearing a greater expense in the health, education and social spheres, but also to face help to families, to the companies most affected by the consequences of the war. High inflation time came during this year. The Bank of Spain sifrava, so..., in projections of more than the set_per_cent inflation. This changes all the dynamics we've had in the last thirty years. Therefore, it is very important that we can have this margin to do these measures. If you help us, we will be able to complete some of the proposals you have also proposed. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.149.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.150.0	Between yesterday and yesterday, I had occasion to contrast with the social and economic agents of Catalonia – with the Workers' Commissions, UGT, Foment, Pimec and the Third Sector Table – as they see the situation. I understand that you and other members of your government have also done so. I've seen consensus and agreement. I've seen the odds of participating. I believe – I sincerely say this – that there are conditions on this assumption to build a solid parliamentary and social majority. A parliamentary and social majority solid to agree on how best to respond to the economic and social effects of defending European values. I want to tell you three things: first, that you take advantage of this predisposition to consent and agreement; second, that my group is willing to help, to add and to build, and third, that if you want to make some presuppositional modification, my group is willing, too, to listen, to propose and to help. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.151.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.152.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, if one thing we've done, especially during these weeks, you've been listening and meeting with everyone. We were going to have a first meeting of parliamentary groups, we were going to have another meeting next week. Also with social workers, two specific meetings on the subject. We have convened the Social Dialogue Council Follow-up Commission this same week to get into the process of implementing these measures. Therefore, I welcome the predisposition to the agreement. I think it's time for bold measures, to have the availability of resources. Presuppositional modifications do not have to be detailed in other areas, but at times – and this is a characteristic of the moments of war –..., so what is needed is to expand the capacity of public presupposition. And that's why it's important that it can also be done in the generality. Thank you for your support. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.153.0	After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the proposal of Law 2/2009 reform law, February 12, of the Council of State Guarantees. [[Law propositions (continuation)]] [[202-00034/13, 202-00035/13 and 202-00036/13]] In accordance with Rule 138.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the deadline for the submission of opinions ends, we shall proceed to the discussion of the opinions submitted by the parliamentary groups in the single reading procedure. As you know, the Board of Spokespersons agreed that the debate on this initiative was consolidated jointly with the two legislative initiatives of which it also approved the single reading procedure at the later plenary session. Therefore, a joint debate will be held with the proposed law amending the Law of the Greuges Syndicate and the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. And at the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. In this sense, also the memory that the approval of these proposals for reform of these laws requires the favorable vote of the absolute majority in a final vote on the conjunction of the text, since it is about two legislative initiatives of basic development of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. In the first place, the leading parliamentary groups will intervene, and later, the groups that have not submitted papers will do so. And remember that the speaking time will be five minutes per parliamentary group. Therefore, for the defense of the papers to the totality with alternative text presented to the three legislative initiatives, has the word of the deputy Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.154.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Members of Parliament... We are debating the reform of three laws regulating two autonomous statutory institutions, the Council of State Guarantees and the Greuges Syndicate, and an institution attached to Parliament, such as the Antifrau Office. Three institutions related to essential aspects that have to do with, above all, the democratic quality of governance in Catalonia. Three institutions that, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we consider necessary and therefore do not discuss their existence, as others do. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group believes that the Council of State Guarantees and the Greuges Syndicate, as statutory institutions, must develop their functions with all democratic guarantees and in accordance with the laws, as we also believe that the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia must be a good instrument to fight corruption. The basis of the question is why the Party of Socialists of Catalonia has agreed with Esquerra and Together the renewal of these three institutions and why, one time closed the agreement and made the distribution of the charges according to the party interests of this tripartite, they present in this Parliament three proposals for the reform of the respective regulatory laws. They have done so to divert the attention of the parties involved in a follow-up of various institutions and bodies. These proposals for you are a smokescreen. They want to see that the tripartite that drives these proposals of law does so to improve the democratic quality and ensure that at all times they are at the service of the interests of the city council of Catalonia. No, ladies and gentlemen, no. This has to be done, as has been done, by the bodies which comply with the institutions which must guarantee a democracy of quality; it has to be done to the bodies without any redundancy. This tripijoc knows him: saying he's doing one thing to do the opposite of what he's saying. Again in the political camp of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, which, instead of captivating the opposition to the separatist government, does what we already knew we would do: agree to always achieve the maximum quotas of party power, leaving behind the interests of the joint citizens and the real best of democratic quality. And these proposals of law have only been tried to cover the shames of this tripartite interest, especially the shames of the PSC. We have presented the totality of the three proposals of the Law because we believe that they do not seek a better in the management of these three institutions or improve the democratic quality. In fact, this tripartite agreement promoted by the PSC enhances the quality of Catalan institutional democracy, measured by the interest of the separatist government and its new counterpart, the Socialists of Catalonia. We have presented the papers in the format required by the Rules of Parliament, as proposed by law alternatives to the proposals of the new tripartite. We want the legislative change to improve democratic quality and regenerate these institutions. The system proposed by the tripartite is a new tripijoc. From Ciutadans we suggest that the process of renewal of these organs is an open competition in which the Parliament can examine the candidates and really have the opportunity to choose the suitable candidates. The proposal they make to us is that, after an opaque procedure, outside the Parliament, we are presented with so many candidates as to cover them, and the Parliament only benefits the proposal. It is a fact and a good idea for the majority of us today, which drives this reform of interest. Our totality reviews want to guarantee the true independence of the candidates respect the political parties, fixing as required the obligation not to belong to any party with a minimum preview of the candidacy, and that after leaving the office they cannot occupy a place of political designation within two years, in order to avoid rotating doors. Planting that everything works well and that it can only reduce the term of office again to six years, as proposed by the law, is not what we want or what we want to do. Much more has to be done, above all to guarantee the independence of the candidates and the autonomy of the Parliament in order to truly choose the best. That's why we've put together our totality reviews. And we've heard from before that we know so many of the party interests of this new tripartite majority will fall on them. We have done this to introduce this debate of foundations, to give an opportunity to the best of democratic quality. A new opportunity lost, sense doubt, but not because of Ciutadans. In any case, we will not support these proposals of law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.155.0	Thank you very much. Further, in order to defend the articulate presented jointly for the proposal of Law 2/2009 Law Reform Law, the Council of State Guarantees, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.156.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... In this..., in these – in fact – points, let's go to the debate and vote of the papers presented to the proposals of law already commented in the past, the 2/2009, of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, the 24/2009, of the Syndic de Greuges, and the 14/2008, of the Antifrau Office of Catalonia. The object of these changes, as we already discussed in the final plenary, is to reduce the duration of the mandates of those responsible for these statutory and taxation bodies, such as the Anti-Fraud Office. Specifically, from the new years that were until now foreseen to the laws until the sixth that are proposed, as general criteria, and also with the criterion of unifying the duration of the mandates of these different organs and with the impossibility of re-election for an immediate subsequent mandate of the exercise of this one. These changes, as well as the own renewal of roles, respond to the willingness to give compliments, through the pact and the agreement, to the legislative and democratic mandate to provide the country's institutions with the renovations that they are looking for and when they are looking for, and to improve their functioning mechanisms. The reduction of mandates is, therefore, a measure directed in this sense, to the extent that the mandates of six years are a sufficient term to comply with the intention of drawing down these mandates with the legislatures, with the duration of Parliament's legislatures, and to facilitate or, better yet, help to prevent reproduction in a future situation leading to a blockade or impossibility of renewing the charges when they are near. The Syndicate of Greuges and the Council of State Guarantees, such as statutory institutions, and the Anti-Fraud Office, such as the body of control, taxation and prevention of administrations, are institutions serving citizens, and the best of its functioning is also the best of the service they provide, and therefore a question of democratic quality. From the Socialists and Progress Units Group, as the first group in the chamber, through the exercise of the dialogue and the ability to reach agreements, we exercise our role with institutional and country sense with this measure of better legislation, as well as with the agreements for the renewal of the tasks that have occurred. With regard to the totality papers with alternative texts submitted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we would vote against them. We will vote against it for various motius. You want to convert the names of these institutional posts into less than a selection process through a competition, as the Member of the City has now commented, under the pretext of guaranteeing independence and neutrality of the posts. This position denotes, in our view, a deep mistrust of the capacity of democratic institutions, such as the Parliament, to do our job, and manifests and encourages no less deep mistrust of politics, the policy that must be able to take decisions oriented towards objectives. To renounce this function which democraticly has entrusted us with citizenship and which also consists in taking decisions on the names of offices and the mechanisms of operation of these institutions is simply to take away the responsibilities we have, assuming that a qualified majority such as the one that requires the election of offices is a criterion sufficient to guarantee neutrality and they intend to convert it all into a minimum of technology – certainly to the detriment of the democratic control that is exercised in this Parliament. He said a few moments ago that we cannot avoid the responsibility, like representatives of the citizenry, of taking decisions that correspond to us and delegating, as they put their alternative text, in a few processes select the function of the Parliament to decide, to appoint and, as these proposals, to regulate the functioning of the institutions and to control them, as I said, democratic to whom it is close. But above all – above all – from Ciutadans, after having been the first parliamentary power to have systematically blocked the renewal of power, to the detriment of the democratic quality of these institutions, because of their inability to dialogue and reach agreement with other political forces, they cannot now come to accuse us of tripijocs with this alternative text, as if you have just arrived at this Parliament. You have a system of choosing, better said, of selecting, of a routing which seems well that you want to perpetuate a situation of blocking in the name of the organs, to introduce criteria like honorability, that you yourself are in charge of defining what you consider to be honorability, according to your criteria. And already placed in this slang – let me – archaic, it seems that it has also been oblivious to add a reference to archaism present in some articles of the Civil Code, already, and that in the requests, eh? , of diligence, is also foreseen and acting with the diligence of a good father of the family– certainly, that no filter would pass today, fortunately, of policies of equality. For all that I have said to you, we would vote, as I said, against the threat to the totality of Ciutadans' alternate text, and, logically, in favour of the technical threat presented for our group, together with Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.157.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.158.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... In a very short way, because the MP has already explained the meaning of what we are going to do, that in this case, it is a modification to reduce the mandate again to six years, and, in this sense, to be able to adapt or put the mandates of these bodies in terms that exceed the legislature, four years, but that remain in a shorter time than the new years that we have so far. A period in which we have to make proposals to be able to complete it and to be able to work, as is being done at this very moment, to compliment a mandate that we have in Parliament and that so far had not been possible. And, therefore, put in the agreement. To put, in this case, in value the fact that three political forces can come to an agreement both to modify these laws and to be able, in this case, to pull out the names is very important. And the qualified majorities that don't give this agreement will have to put themselves in value. We also need to put into value the fact that these qualified majorities give transparency, give democracy to these names, that we do not have to keep only pending whether they are doing with select processes, like the one that says external, which was proposed by the deputy of Ciutadans. Therefore, put the agreement into value. In this case, it is also worth noting that these qualified majorities give this transparency and this guarantee that has been reinforced – and we will also talk about tomorrow, about the hearings, about listening to the people who are not to be part of it –..., to put this quality in the curricula of all the people who are there, too. And we, in this case, would also like to replenish the import of these institutions, because they are own institutions of Catalonia, which offer a lot of good service to the citizen and to the administrations. Because not only in Parliament, in the Government of the Generality, but also in the assemblies of Catalonia..., it also gives this service to the administrations and to the citizen, which we see with the highest work that has been done, for example, from the Synod of Greuges or from the Antifrau Office, to ask some examples of appeals to which the people can address. And, therefore, this good work of these institutions to us..., when some simply speak of « txiringuitos, we who do speak, in this case, of the institutions close to Catalonia, that strengthen our identity and that strengthen, in this case, our structures of power, also, of our country. Therefore, we will vote against the totality items that have been presented and put into value the agreement that we have reached. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.159.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.160.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. In substance, at the end of the day we already had the opportunity to debate respect the modification of these three standards relating to these statutory bodies, as well as the direction of the Anti-Fraud Office. And, therefore, I think it's a bit of a surprise that we're talking about again. But in any case, what we have to do, in this turn of defence, is explain why our task, which is an eminently technical task, which has to do with the entry into force of the rule and which also has to do with the process of designating candidates which is already taking place in this Parliament and which saw the appearances this week in the proceedings before the Council of State Guarantees. And we will also have to refer, in this case, therefore, to dealing with, in accordance with the question raised by the Ciutadans Group..., which, in fact, as has been explained, is a question to the totality, presents an alternative text which, from our point of view, if there is anything remarkable it is that supports, on the contrary, the goodness of the modification of the laws that we come to advocate the three proposing groups. Because, in short, they do not change the term of six years, which is what we propose to respect the terms of office, and it is not only the modification itself that is valid, but also all the provisions that accompany it that respect the designation of the members of the Board of Guarantees; not only those that are still the designation of the Parliament, but those that they have to see with the designation that the Government itself does not have to do, right? And also – I must put it this way – from our point of view, it is unacceptable not only the proposal itself, because we understand that what is proposed, as some of the spokespersons have already pointed out, right? , it's a handful of technocratic bodies that don't have anything to do with the political value component that can make a legislative chamber like this, that we're here to make politics; but it's that, in addition, it respects the conditions of suitability there are some of the asides that are opposed to the essential principles of our legal order, such as the principle of equality or, already in the sphere of criminal justice, therefore, the very possibility of reinsertion of people. Because if you speak of fitness, you are referring to some fact that may be lawful, as it may be..., man, that there is no such thing as a prison sentence, or that there are no criminal precedents; it cannot be that, even if there are conditions of fitness, because a person has already served a sentence in a prison institution, he cannot choose, for the fact that he has been sentenced in the past, to a representational charge as it may be, or as a designation. And from our point of view, this is unsustainable on the right. And, as I said before, break the principle of equality and also break basic principles in criminal law, such as reinsertion. For the rest, the system itself is ineffective and ineffective. Because, very well, here it is possible to make a system of nomination that, whether it is a motion or endorsement by third parties, must know, in this case, also, at the time of going to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, therefore, the respective appearance of these candidates, but what is also certain is that at the time of their election also the qualified majority will be worth. And, therefore, as I said, this system must be, from our point of view, ineffective and ineffective. This does not respect the proposal you know, these three modifications..., these three proposals for amending the regulation of these organs. For us to explore these terms again to six years it does serve, it is more adhering to the parliamentary dynamics that our country is living in, in which unfortunately..., perhaps not, but the value that it can make disappear, but the reality is that the time of the legislatures is hardly spent. We understand that, therefore, the conformation in the terms of six years, also the fact that there is no synchrony between the designations made by the Parliament and those that can be made by the respective Government, that, logically, you see reflected a parliamentary majority that supports it..., therefore, the fact, I insist, that the designations of the Parliament and of the Government are not synchronous, precisely helps to the diversity of pronouncements of optics and perspectives and, therefore, from our point of view, contribute to the democratic health of these statutory bodies that, for us– I believe, for the vast majority of the parliamentary groups represented here– are determined, right? And for the rest, man, I will also focus on the fact that in the proposal that is made in this context only the totality is missing, including a term, and I will take a term that often uses the spokesman of the Mixt Group..., in this case, Alejandro Fernández asks that the candidates are Spanish, because, in fact, it is the only..., in the comparisons that we have kept to the hearings, it was the only thing that they could do to all the candidates: the fact that one day they meant not to be adherent, in this case, to the cause of Spanish Spanish Spanishism. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.161.0	Next, after the defenses to the joint, he has the word to position himself, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.162.0	With venom, the president. I will be very brief to reiterate my group's position on the three institutions which are intended to change and to announce our vote against the amendments tabled. It is true that the amendments that the Citizens' Group has tabled to the whole with alternative text improve certain aspects of the said institutions that are intended to change, which is not difficult if we take into account the sectarianism and the sense of ownership with which the separatists have the institutions that are of all. But we are going to vote against all these amendments because we believe that the only possible amendment to such laws is the abolition of the institutions they regulate. The state of autonomy has served, in the case of Catalonia, for a disloyal Generality to have deployed an institutional apparatus parallel to that of the State with the aim of supplanting it, violating the equal rights of all Spaniards. And for VOX, guaranteeing equality means repealing all laws that create differences and inequalities between Spanish people. [[Greetings.]] From my parliamentary group we denounce and will always denounce these unnecessary and unnecessary duplications, which also have a bloody economic cost to the Catalan pocket. Institutions that have often served to place, in addition, friends and associates with disproportionate salaries; without going further, for example, the syndic of heavyweights, with an annual payroll of 138,000_euros. This high economic cost, moreover, of these institutions is especially bloody at a time like the current social emergency in Catalonia, with an agonistic economic situation. Therefore, for the sake of equal rights, duties and opportunities for all Spaniards, and for a sense of responsibility, because with the money of the Spaniards do not fatten unnecessary organisms and do not pay millions of payrolls, VOX's position will always be the immediate closure of these three superfluous institutions. Why? Because the Council of State Guarantees must be repealed and an agreement signed with the Council of State to assume its advisory role in the few cases in which it is mandatory. Repeal the Sindic de Greuges, because the Spaniards already have a defender of the people with the capacity to act against any administration and throughout the national territory to guarantee the defense of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards. And repeal the Anti-Fraud Office, proposing that its functions be assumed by a national office or by the structure of the High Inspection of the State. Closing them would result in savings of 18_million_of_euro per year– I repeat: 18_million_of_euro per year – which would go very well for the Maltese Catalan arks and, above all, the rights and freedoms of Catalans would be better guaranteed by the state bodies on conditions of equality with the rest of Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.163.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.164.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. We had this debate two weeks ago. Actually, two weeks ago, it's been a_me..., or so, we've been repeating this debate, because – I say it again – as I said, we can make up a formal and technical issue, but here, in the background, right? There's something else to talk about. Because the modifications of the three laws are technical questions in which we can agree that they were in some cases necessary or positive – so we abstained and today we will abstain; we will vote against Ciutadans's ideas – but make it up in technical questions no more than what is behind it. Because lately you've been using the "consensus" word, and you're using the "consensus" for everything. It's all the result of a consensus. Clearly, it's the result of consensus among people who talk, because it's impossible for people who don't talk to to have a consensus. It is the result of agreements between concrete parties which decide that they will say 'consensus', but that with the rest they do not talk about it, as I said. And I remember what I remembered two weeks ago: in September, in this Parliament, there was an agreement of five parliamentary groups to deal with reform or changes to the corporation, to deal with the changes of the Union of Accounts, to deal with the changes to the Syndicate of Greuges, but it turns out that after, in fact, these agreements are fan between three groups, ignoring the other two, both in the changes as in legislative changes, and then come and say consensus. Well, I think the numbers, as I said, don't give. Five groups are more than three. And there are three of them because they decided not to talk to the other two, so simple; but yes, of course, it is a consensus between three groups. So it is very simple to reach a consensus to divide the country and do the same thing that has always been done, which is to distribute, on the basis of party interests, those necessary organs of public administration taxation, as can be the Greuges Syndicate, to ensure how or to age for how people's rights are respected, or the Union of Accounts, to guarantee how... the taxation of how public administration money is spent. It is very good to do so as it has always done, based on interested partyists. From this to the disembarkation in the so-called "socio-virgency" republican. Some of them were nervous. So we'll also repeat another term that maybe they like better: tripartite in the shade. As it goes, it is: Left, Together and PSC decided to split up these roles and then decided to adapt, the three directly, questions that could be much more consensual or much more major, address the necessary reform of these bodies. And we could have approached it much more deeply, but they decided to do the right and necessary because, if not, we did touch the foundations of this tripartite in the shadow or this will to divide, as has always been the case, the lines of taxation, to age for the democratic quality of public administrations. As I said to the originalist, we will vote against Ciutadans's statements, because we understand that they are still his usual rhetoric, which brings little to the debate. And we will abstain, because, although we understand that it is a good thing to reduce six years of this, we understand that shapes do do the thing and explain how things are currently working in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.165.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.166.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I guess I'll be short too, even then, sometimes, one doesn't complete what's proposed, because basically it's a debate that's already as repeated as I'm sure that even most MPs and MPs that we're here are a little tired of feeling - say. Because in the end, effectively and as has already been said, today's vote is the culmination of this famous three-way deal. And it is so obvious that the different groups will say, that all the groups defending the proposals of the law that today are voting have already gone out completely to the defensive to justify that this split-falling pact between three parties is a consensus pact and it is a pact that has all the appearance of transparency and plurality and neutrality. So mirin, no. Or so, it's a pact that completes the law, yes; that has the votes enough to approve the names of these people for these organs, yes. Now, is this a pact that guarantees neutrality? No, no, And if not, we are already seeing with the bars that are between the board of the corporation, just chosen, to see if they are following or not following the directors that are there now, to see if they are posing some of them or not putting some of them into processing. And the bars are made between matches, between Junts for Catalonia and the PSC, for one band, and Esquerra Republicana, for another. So, there hasn't been a single word since we named the corporate board, and there are already party bars. So maybe you have a little bit to see the fact that most of the jobs that are – not to mention all – between the corporate board, all were linked to political parties, most of them. Most of them, in one way or another, have either been public bodies linked to the government when there was a Republican Left, or have been PSC bodies, even many of them as press officers, or are deputies who were active in Junts for Catalonia until the time of the nomination. Therefore, split with party criteria. Could they have made a three-way deal? I don't tell you what we've told you many times before about the possibility and the challenge that we all have of democratic regeneration, of reaching an agreement that exceeds most of the minimum requirement and that was really a country agreement. It is clear that the three groups that have made this agreement did not want to do so, because, obviously, as the criteria were ‘how do we share it? ... : « You are the syndicate; you, the half of the Board of Statutory Guarantees; you, the presidency of the body; you, the presidency of the ACC, and you, this. As this was the criterion, they had no interest in making a broader agreement, because then they thought that they would have to distribute more, even though it was not the logic that we raised the rest of the groups there. Now, they could have made a small effort to look for professionals – especially in the case of the corporation and the CAC, which is the most glaring – that doesn't have this party bond. It's just that they could have made a little effort. Is it that they do not have proposals from professionals from the world of communication who do not have links with a party, which, moreover, is what we listened to say by active and passive to the whole sector during months in attendance at the body committee? What they're bringing us today is the culmination of this pact. They also agreed to reduce mandates and try to dress their agreement as a democratic regeneration thing. So no, it's not enough, because what you've just done, after so much delay in the renewal of these people... Because they had a new mandate, it's that most of them have been much longer for the inability of political groups to agree. What they ended up doing was the same as always. So, to do the same as always, they could have done it before, too, surely, huh? And here Ciutadans..., and I want to remind you that the last legislature also tried to do it this way with a pre-agree for the renewal of the « body. What's going on is that they then saw that the theme was "independent" so much and they pulled it back because they didn't just pull out the numbers. But they also tried to do it in the past legislature, which we all have here. Therefore, we will abstain from these changes, because we understand that it is a step forward, this reduction of mandates, which is certainly necessary, even though effectively the reduction of mandates will not be useful if we are back in the same position of inability to find those consensuss that are needed in six years' time. But I have to say that we will also abstain in the totality papers presented for Ciutadans, because it seems to us that, from what is his report and that at the exhibition of reasons there are many things that we would not agree with, we believe that some of the proposals that are made are interesting and necessary and that they should be discussed. If we really want to reflect on how these organs are working, how transparency, independence, neutrality, efficiency are guaranteed, we certainly need to have a deeper debate. That is why we will not vote for them, because, in addition, there are some who do not share as girls are; but we will abstain because we understand that they point to things that are constructive and that could help move forward in this debate of democratic regeneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.167.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.168.0	Thank you, President. Is the reduction of mandates positive in the matter before us? Of course I do. But we have to tell you clearly that this punctual makeup does not cover the fact that we are witnessing an agreement that does not contribute to democratic regeneration, that does not contribute to democratic quality and that, as we have already denounced in previous plenary sessions, we do not have our support at all. But it is true that the reduction of mandates is positive; in that sense, we will abstain from the proposal. We are also going to abstain from all the amendments, because there are some nuances in each of them that we do not share. And we will vote in favour of the Citizens' Amendment which explicitly refers to the Greuges Synod. We believe that it is the one that is best drafted, the one that is most urgent and the one that, moreover, responds more to some very serious practices and irregularities, both ethically and politically, that have developed in that institution in recent times, and that with this amendment we believe that they could be substantially corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.169.0	After the interventions, we proceed to the vote on the papers submitted to each of the three legislative initiatives. In the first place, in the proposal for a law to reform Law 2/2009, of the 12th of February, of the Council of State Guarantees, we vote for the speech to the totality with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. The speech to the whole was not approved, with 5 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. Next, we are voting on a new final provision, presented jointly for the Socialist and Unites for Progress Parliamentary Group, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group and the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. The amendment was adopted, with 98 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 17 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the law's proposal now. The vote begins. The remainder of the bill's proposal was approved, with 98 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 17 abstentions. Then, according to Rule 130 of the Rules, we proceed to the final vote on the conjunction of the text. The vote begins. The final vote on the joint text was 99 votes in favour, 16 against and 16 abstentions. Subsequently, in relation to the proposal for a law amending Law 24/2009, of 23 December, of the Synod of Greuges, we vote on the appeal to the totality with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. The total vote was not adopted, with 6 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 7 abstentions. Then, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, and since there are no items presented in the joint, we proceed to the final vote on the conjunction of the text. The vote begins. The final vote on the joint text was 98 votes in favour, 16 against and 17 abstentions. Next, with regard to the proposed law amending Law 14/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, we vote on the appeal to the totality with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The vote begins. The total vote was not adopted, with 5 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. Then, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as there are no points of order, we shall proceed to the vote on the conjunction of the text presented. The vote begins. The summary of the text presented received 98 votes in favour, 16 against and 17 abstentions. [[Decree Law 3/2022 of 29 March on access to data from local authorities and the Department of Education for the application of measures for the detection and balanced distribution of the student with specific educational needs]] [[203-000021/13]] We now move to the fifth item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 3/2022, of access to data from local authorities and the Department of Education for the application of measures for the detection and balanced distribution of the student with special educational needs. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Education Adviser will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. You've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.170.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, today we present, for its validation, the decree of access to data from local authorities and the Department of Education for the application of measures intended for the detection and balanced distribution of the student with specific educational needs. This decree responds to the need to enable the Department of Education to obtain data and information from local authorities to meet educational and guidance needs for students. Specifically, to guide the detection of students with specific educational needs arising from socio-economic and socio-cultural situations. Many of these situations have a direct relationship with nationality, home composition, economic activity, access to housing and basic benefits. Without the knowledge of these data there can be no approximation of the actual situation of the risk of exclusion to the right to education of children in each of the municipalities of our country. As you know, the next course will be the first in which we will begin to implement some of the measures that reverse the programming decree of the educational offer and the admission procedure in the centres of the Education Service of Catalonia, known as the "admission decree, which was born with consensus in the pact against the segregation of the syndicate. One of the main elements to be able to implement this pact is to eliminate segregation at the entrance of the education system. The other day, he was also commenting on the appearance. Once we have the segregated centers, we allocate as much resources as possible to attend this school as possible, but the centers continue to be segregated and, therefore, we need to change our gaze and we need to distribute the student at the entrance of the system in a balanced way. And to pull this process forward, it would be to identify the student before he enters the education system, before he joins child 3, to preserve the places depending on each area, to assign a place and to make a balanced distribution of this student to all publicly funded centres, and this student, therefore, to the public school and to the concerted school with all the necessary economic resources associated with his day-to-day, with all the necessary economic resources associated with the colonies, the outflows, the activities, the material, the complementaries and, obviously, also the fishing boats. And, in this line, the coming course for the first time this student in a situation of vulnerability, from the first student, will arrive to child 3 and first of ESO with an economic accompaniment. This amount, identified to the different economic memoranda of work that took place with the syndic, will be 384_euros at the public school and 988_euros at the concerted school. And, as I said, you have to cover all the necessary resources associated with your day-to-day school. And, therefore, pre-detection is the key. Do not rely on this decree to make it impossible to obtain adequate information in order to give an optimal response to the specific educational needs of the student in a situation of vulnerability. That is why the Department of Education, through local planning tables, admission guarantee commissions and detection units, must be able to access data from local families with children in school and vulnerable situations. The two-way information exchange between administrations with educational skills improves, hassles, and expedites processes. And this has a clear benefit on infants and young people, especially if they are vulnerable people, because it allows them to allocate the necessary resources that guarantee them a better personal development in conditions of equity and inclusion. This decree allows the Department of Education to access data from locals in Catalonia, the country, families with children in compulsory schooling. This access will be carried through the participating agencies in the programming of the educational offer and in the admission process, as well as in the different units of detection. But it is also important, in this decree, that the decree empowers the Department of Education to deliver data to local authorities. The skills of the locals that the regulations set them up..., and justifies the need for the Department of Education to free the data needed from the Catalan student register for the exercise of skills in the field of planning and prevention of school segregation. Therefore, we find ourselves in front of a bi-directional inter-administrative collaboration that benefits all parts, and, above all, the most important, benefits the students, because it allows to give answer to their needs in a more effective and more preventive way. And, in this sense, I would like to state that this vulnerable student detection system for entry into the system has already been successfully put into practice in the city of Barcelona. And this was possible because the Barcelona Education Consortium is part of both the Barcelona Assembly – the local world – and the Education Department, which has greatly facilitated this sharing of information. Moreover, this collaboration is supported both by the organic law of education and by the law of education of Catalonia. Both regulations empower the Educational Administration to have data on the student and his or her families, which are necessary to carry out the right to education of children and young people, as well as to enable the orientation of the student in his or her schooling process to last. There is a basis of legitimacy for the processing of personal data, which is used in the public interest mission that reverses the legal mandate of the different educational laws for which it makes the Department of Education and local administrations, and for which it makes necessary steps to avoid segregation in the exercise of its competences in the student education process. An important part of this decree, too, is the fact that, in view of the sensitive nature of the information, it regulates that access to personal data shall be ensured at all times by confidentiality, integrity, traceability, availability and authenticity of the information, and also by exercising the right and duty to inform interested persons. The processing of the data is from the end of the student guarantee commissions and in the different units of detection of the student with specific educational needs for socioeconomic reasons that can create the local educational planning tables. And, therefore – I am finished – it is urgent that we be able to access these data as soon as possible, coinciding with the pre-registration and registration period for the coming course of the own months, since it is not possible to lose any of the opportunities that the programming of the educational offer and the admission process with criteria of equity and inclusive can do, they can offer, to fight against school segregation. Encanny are more than forty-thousand infants who will be studying as children 3, at the entrance of the education system, and this is the main moment of the children's entry into the education system. Any measure for the balanced distribution of this student must apply at this time. Once the school has started, it is no longer possible to change students of the centers for reasons of segregation. It is essential to approve and publish this decree with urgency, because during the pre-registration and registration process of the coming course it is possible to have the necessary tools to deal with school segregation with the maximum information and with the most appropriate information to do so. Moreover, this measure that the proposal does not generate any economic expense. It doesn't generate any extra expense. We find ourselves in front of a historic opportunity to face the situation of school segregation that lives thousands of Catalan students. It is at our hands to push a solution that gives answer to this problem, and with this decree we can achieve it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.171.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. They know that this return word will be five minutes, as we agreed at the next Spokesman's Meeting. In the first place, there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.172.0	Well, good morning again. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, today I am in favour of this Parliament confirming a decree approved by the Government which, at least with our group, has not previously been shared or informed. A decree which is justified by the need to provide, on the part of the Department of Education, data relating to vulnerable or needy students specific to socio-economic or socio-cultural situations, in order to be able to make a more accurate detection of needs in advance, prior to schooling, and thus contribute to a more equitable distribution of the studentship between centres and, therefore, with the aim of reducing school segregation, which is so important, unfortunately, still in Catalonia. In fact, on March 3, the syndic presented his follow-up report on the anti-segregation pact, it was warned that the levels, three years after the signature of the pact, had only diminished in a deu_per_cent and there was no structural reduction because they did not apply the main instruments of this agreement, along with lack of resources and determination. We all know examples of high-complexity schools that, for the sake of being so, are converted into the main living enrollment colliders of those children, usually of foreign origin, that arrive during the course. Or a student who, with specific educational support needs, is most likely to attend public school in a eighty_per_cent, or who, when they do so to the concertee, does not have any additional resources for part of the department in order to be able to receive adequate attention or guarantee the educational services, with which he supposes for the families. Well, this would be a necessary instrument, and that is why we share the objective of this decree, because, without this pre-detection at the entrance of the education system, it is difficult to have the actual student map with specific educational support needs for socioeconomic reasons, nor can they take action or allocate specific resources with the aim of improving social inclusion and cohesion. Now, this decision has been missing for many years, because there have been gatherings that, with initiations such as educational plans around, educational success plans and struggle against abandonment, do what they can, usually a lot of lack of economic and human resources, without units of detection with OME without economic endowment and, ultimately, found themselves without the support of the department competent to deal with this phenomenon. But, anyway, as I was saying, although I arrive late, it seems a necessary and uncertain step. Now, we have found that the access that is enabled to the Department of Education to data from municipal social services is not bidirectional, in the sense that we are not allowed to access the Ralc. That is to say, in the action of many municipalities to combat absenteeism, abandonment, school failure, there are data that are very necessary, that are practically impossible to obtain if it is not through the directions that they are willing to collaborate, but usually never through territorial services; basic data of schooling, graduation, abandonment, in order to be able to manage these OMs well, the educational plans around them, these services of orientation and transition and all the skills that are established for the conjunctions to the Law. And it is a great deal that this decree does not take into account, because it has been a great opportunity to ensure these flows of information of age and return that would only revert to a better of the education system, of the offer planning, of the distribution of the student and of resources in terms of equity and quality, as well as to a better of community action in favor of the education success that so often drives the gatherings. And then we also disagree with the com. Legally, it seems to us to be a much better decree that has not yet been brought into line with the law; in fact, we have doubts that I have completed the data protection law. It's a law decree that, in principle, should be for emergency cases. We already know that pre-registration, enrolment procedures are annual, they are ordinary. Surely, it's because they didn't do the work when they were playing, that they're late. And, effectively, they avoid a decree that would require public exposure. And, therefore, we understand that it could have been better and, in fact, much better. Now, as I said, all the while making manifest – because it seems to us that we have to make it clear whether we believe, as we believe, in co-responsibility, in collaboration, the essential cooperation between assemblies and Education – that we do not agree with how and with what, because we need to allow this access to Ralc by assemblies, we do not object because we read it as a first step forward in the objective of the fight against segregation. Let us hope, therefore, that this decree will be accompanied by political determination, resources, and many other necessary measures which will enable us to deploy a pact which a large majority of the educational community has signed and with which it is committed, but which can begin to apply. Thank you very much. And, therefore, we shall vote for abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.174.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, honourable Members, good morning. Gentlemen of the Government, one more time we find ourselves here debating, voting a decree law, one more of the thirty that have already been presented to us for just one year of the legislature. It seems that you are not so democratic, so dialogueal, so advocates of the Catalan institutions, when you rule under the law. Only by giving us the option of voting in favour or against, without the possibility of improving the text, as is usual in any normal legislative body. The record that only the figure of the decree is to be used in cases of emergency and extraordinary necessity, as indicated by the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitutional Court. It has an extraordinary application and is therefore of a restricted character. And in this case, the justification they make for approving this decree is more than insufficient. I read: "Only a regulation with an urgent character allows, in the next course 22-23, it is possible to reduce school segregation and improve the promotion of school equity and social cohesion by mediating the collaboration that is proposed. Well, try to make us believe that, in order to reduce the school segregation that you, shamefully, have created – you and your predecessors in the government – we only have a tool, which is the decree, a new decree of the law. This is putting on a stick – putting on a patch. The content of the decree, moreover, can be highly injured, because they will play the interface of personal data of vulnerable families between administrations, without their consent – the consent of these families – and without guaranteeing the citizens control over their personal data, as if the children and families were simple figures, statistics, names. The protection of physical persons in relation to the processing of their personal data is a fundamental right which is guaranteed by the Spanish Constitution in Article 18.4. In the first place, it can be hurt, because its content, which is contained in Decree 11/2021 of the 16th of February, goes in line with which you are really: sectarians and totalitarians. They want to end the educational freedom by intervening without the parents painting anything to decide where to school a child. The interventionism on the part of the Government, and concretely on the part of the Department of Education, is the mark of the house – hi, Mr. González-Cambray? – with the adoption of classrooms, with the language of learning, with the inspectors of Education..., and now they say that some students, some vulnerable children have to enroll in some schools and not in some others. Secondly, interchanging data between administrations and trying to distribute vulnerable infants can not only undermine educational freedom, but also does not tackle the problem of detention. What is needed is an adequate, wide range of social benefits for families. And we also need a model of Catalan school that I let go of band, to flush the chronic underfunding already. And as long as there are good intentions behind, such as improving the living conditions of these vulnerable infants, what we can't do in any case is subvert the freedom of families to decide which school they want to sort out the desire for their children. Offer depending on the demand of the pairs and not the other way around. And if you really want to end up with school segregation, what you have to do is open the one district and end the zoning. Mr González-Cambray, I asked you fifteen days ago for your resignation before your inability to manage properly, attend to the reality of things, to act casually. We must denounce another arbitrariness of his, on this occasion, with this decree of the law. Please, without disrespecting them in absolute, Mr Gonzalez-Cambray, if you estimate education, if you estimate Catalonia, please resign now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.175.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.176.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, today we are here to position ourselves on the decree that will authorize local authorities to access information from families to ensure, according to the Government, the fair distribution of the Nese student. The problem is that we are here to talk about a law decree that we see, but there is no margin for voting, because the context of urgency and violation of children's rights that has occurred in our education system obliges us to do so. A decree that, as his own name indicates, was approved by the government on March 29. By this I do not mean that we are against this decree, but that it would be useful to reflect on the mechanism that has been needed to ensure inclusion and fight against segregation in an immediate and effective way. And I would also like to reflect on the current context, which is the direct result of the lack of planning and interest in matter in the past twenty years. Our system already counts with two laws, one of state – the Organic Law 2/2012 of Education – and one of Catalan – the Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of Education, the LEC – which in its articles already establish and recognize the right to education and access to education in equal opportunities for all the students and the struggle against segregation. Moreover, we also have the conviction of the rights of United Nations infants. But two subsequent decrees were needed to try to ensure this application of the equality division of the student: the inclusive Decree 150/2007 and the 16 February Decree 11/2021 of the admission procedure. And as long as we still have the laws already discussed and these decrees on the table, one of 2017 and the other of 2021, and your government has been unable to guarantee inclusion, today we are here with a new decree that expands the measures. Let's hope this is, once and for all, the definition. Now I'd like to give some thought to the law we're dealing with. The decree that you present today recognizes school segregation as an undeniable reality of our society that becomes a clear factor of inequality over the most vulnerable children and highlights the extraordinary need to combat school segregation as soon as possible, before the student is in a situation of educational disadvantage and at the time of entry into the education system. So if that's all it is, and that fact is what really concerns them, it guarantees the gratuity of the whole phase from zero to three years to guarantee its early detection before final schooling, not just child 2. Motherhood and fatherhood, as I said the other day, do not extend until the infants reach P2. And, in fact, guaranteeing access for all families to this educational stage would ensure the detection of this NESE student in educational spaces that are not defined. Because one time at P3, schooling is already in primary education centers. And once here, the center tria is already done and, therefore, segregation is already doomed. Another aspect in which I would like to put up with is the data that will be obtained without the consent of the persons concerned, without the consent of the families. In this respect, comment on two things. First: we demand that from its government it is effectively vetted for the compliment of the three points referring to the confidentiality and security of data. But vetlar means to assure him of the compliment. And number two: as for the data collected in the locals, you include a apartment that says: "Families with children in compulsory schooling without permission of residence. And my question is, how do you intend to detect these families? Because most indicators are related to social services, attention and help. People and families without residence permits are often not detected by the system because they cannot access it. Families in an irregular administrative situation often do not arrive at social services, and one way to guarantee this access would be this free of charge from all stage zero to three, where they could be detected. And the last question would be: if this is the case and they want to include these families in an irregular administrative situation, then will their government be able to control all these families, which is what guarantees them access to our system? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.177.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, so you're wrong. Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.178.0	Thank you, President. Actually, this intervention had to do Jordi Jordan, but he couldn't watch, today. In any case, today we are debating this decree, which, well, is already contemplated in the pact against school segregation. Already 2019 is ugly, in this pact, the shared conviction that we must put all our efforts to combat school segregation. But it seems that until now the work has not been done well. The student segregation of foreign or foreign students – which is certainly the only barem we have, while other countries use other factors such as income to determine it – has only dropped a deu_per_cent in three years and that's quite a bit, counselor. Decrees like the one the government is carrying today believe they can help, and this establishes the pact against segregation. One of the most important schools in the hour of approaching the fairness that lies so far ahead: the detection of the student in a situation of vulnerability. And in everything you create tools to improve the detection of vulnerable students, you'll find us. If, moreover, the Generalitat reaches out to the municipalities to make a common front on this issue, it will find us. But there are problems... And it's that we can't guarantee that it happens with data protection, we can't guarantee that it happens with this tool and how it will only be used exclusively to combat school segregation. We don't know what's going to happen with family authorization. We don't know what's going on with the two-wayness of these data, and how this can end up being a tool of taxation, too, of stigmatization of the poor. And even so, the data also indicate that there are great differences between the Catalan municipalities. And it might also be good to put our efforts into those municipalities that need it the most. There are not only social, educational or particular policy conditions, but there is a very clear share of responsibility on the part of the Government, and it is the uneven deployment of educational policies. And it's that the figures point to us knowing the problem, but we can never lose the real perspective. Every student who suffers some kind of segregation is a violation of the right to education continuously in Catalonia. And there are many, Mr. Counselor. One is that the Department applies itself to allocating the necessary resources especially to high-complexity public centres. And it's not just a division of the alumni, which is also, but it's a guarantee, now and always, of public education, equitable, inclusive and quality. And you do 'a favor to you, to your department and to the government, and also to the country, of course: listen to the educational community, the one that climbs the classroom every day. She's got a lot to say, especially when you're sick of her right now. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.179.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.180.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, it is comforting to see how this Government, despite the skirmishes and weakness, despite the repeated efforts to undermine the head of the State – remember: Catalonia has a similar state, which is the Spanish State, the social and democratic state of law that we have all given to each other – it is comforting, I said, that the Government of the Generality presents us with the confirmation of a new decree which, like all, promulgates President Aragonès on behalf of the King of Spain. May I remind the Government of the Generality that it must govern for all Catalans, also for the majority of Catalans who, more than as we all are, also feel Spanish to a greater or lesser degree. Therefore, I want to begin this intervention in this debate by asking the President of the Generality and all the members of his Government to stop being ridiculous and to remain consistent with the institutional role that surrounds them. As members of a government that is part of the State, respect all and each of the institutions of the State, beginning with the King. That said, this Decree Law 3/2022, of March 29, of access to data from local authorities and the Department of Education for the application of measures intended for the detection and balanced distribution of the student with specific educational needs is presented today to validation by the Government so that it can continue to enforce and complete its objectives. From the point of view of the specific content of this decree, two considerations: the first, which effectively corresponds to the Education Administration, to the Department of Education of the Generality, ensure preventive and compensatory action that guarantees the most favourable conditions for the schooling of all children, the personal and social conditions of which are an initial inequality in order to access the different stages of education, in conformity with which the Organic Law 2/2006, of the 3rd May, of education back. The second, that this obligation goes all the way. In fact, Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of education, the law of education of Catalonia, which has between its general principles school inclusion and social cohesion and includes, among the organizational principles, collaboration, cooperation and co-responsibility with the assemblies and other public administrations, has been in force for a few years. Therefore, it has not just been justified to regulate this issue now, with extraordinary and urgent character, in order to ensure that the proper course, 22-23, is able to improve the promotion of equity and social cohesion through the measures proposed by this decree. The government, this and its predecessors – because, let's remember, they have changed the cares, but not the parties of this issue, the leaders of this issue in themselves from within the government – have had enough time to regulate this issue by following a more appropriate procedure, from the point of view of the legislative power of the proper government. The urgency is that upstairs, a little more, a preparation process for the coming course, and the government hasn't done the job. This government's lack of planning, like its predecessors on this issue, which is neither a person nor a minor, is the real cause of urgency. Now it's time to correct it, because we need to make the cessation of data that lays down this decree so that we can properly prepare the registrations of our own course; urgency for lack of planning and if we haven't done the work when it was playing, which, I repeat, a few years ago it was playing. Entering the specific subject matter and how it is regulated, we agree with the object of Article 1 of the Law Decree. What we are particularly concerned about are the guarantees of confidentiality and security of data, the good use that is made of data. This access and sharing of personal and, therefore, sensitive data from many families and children in compulsory schooling concerns us, because the government has already given samples, enough, that it is not always able to guarantee confidentiality. This treatment of sensitive personal data requires proper planning and implementation of management systems and procedures that ensure, at all times, data security and confidentiality; planning and implementation of systems that are not compatible with urgency and improvisation. We will not oppose it, but we will not support the validation of the law decree. In any case, we would ask that it is processed as a draft law to ensure that the procedures and information systems that are used in this processing of personal data comply with the best standards of security and with the rules of application in data protection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.181.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.182.0	Thank you very much, President. We're going to vote no. And we're going to vote that not for two reasons. The first one I recognize is purely ideological, model, vision of education. In our opinion, there is in his proposal a clear bouquet of social engineering, these stories of always putting the social environment above the student. There is a collectivist view of education in which the individual effort is always parked in the acquisition of knowledge and is always based on education oriented towards the socialization of the whole student, which are very different things. You never prioritize the individual battle against laziness. Laziness is the most terrible enemy faced by a student, whom we all faced when we were students because we were young. If you do a little consciousness examination, you will know that that is true, that it has nothing to do with the social environment, that it has nothing to do with the social class. And all of us who have been teachers – I have been for ten years – know perfectly well that that is the big problem. And you, instead of focusing on the needs of the student to defeat that terrible enemy, always prioritize another story: it's that the students want to, be happy, even if they don't know a pepper of anything and get out of the school itinerary if the tools necessary to face that jungle that sometimes turns life into. Therefore, we do not share that use for the generation – I quote its terminology textually – of favorable social environments, because we know that this is absolutely useless. The second reason is no longer of ideological order of management, it is of confidence. In the case we are dealing with, of mistrust towards you; not towards the educational community, towards you. And when we talk about data processing and add that phrase to « Generalitat de Catalunya », we have to shake in recent years. The precedents are absolutely creepy. And they could say to us: "No, this time we will do it well and we will do it legally. Well, let me at least doubt it and therefore vote against your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.183.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.184.0	Thank you, President. Certainly, we have to validate this decree, which is an important decree, because, organizationally, it has to collaborate in the early detection of diversity and this fact will favor the application of educational supports included in first and, obviously, later stages. It is important, because precisely in the detection they have a paper dealing with the assemblies, the local ones, that, thanks to their proximity with the citizens, with the families, with the social services, with the little children, with the children, they have registration data and educational data and data on the specific needs of educational support related to family, social, cultural, economic situations of social disadvantage. And this knowledge, these data, if passed to the Post-Educational Administration, the Education Department – understand'salgans of participation in the programming of the educational offer and in the admission process, as well as the detection units – is a valuable square for the good educational and educational continuity of the child and for the deployment of the inclusive system. A presentation that these days call for associations and that is important for children, for boys and girls and for the system justly educated in our home. In addition to the Government's interest in this decree, we have the bright coincidence that we have been explained and corroborated by experts to the Study Commission on the Deployment of an Inclusive Educational System. Experts such as Ms. Cesena of the Barcelona Education Consortium, or Ms. Ortoll and Ms. Esteve, who were just drafters of the inclusive decree, who filled in the importance of early detection and the importance that the school cannot do just this job, this ingenious, conceptual change, respects inclusive education. They defended that it was necessary to network, work as fish in a gear related between locals, entities and the Department of Education, and other departments, if that is the case, as could be the Department of Social and Health Rights. This decree, therefore, will promote an organizational and criteria work that will help the organization of educational centres from young children or children's homes, passing through children's homes, through primary schools, through transition to adulthood. It is important, therefore, for children, and also for their environment, obviously with the objective of working, as has been said, in favour of equity and against segregation. Thus, the Education Department considers it necessary that, by means of a law-ranking figure, such as the decree proposed by the law, it is concrete and is legally secure, confidential, to the possibility that, in the case of the bodies involved in the schooling process, the information and data needed to be processed and communicated in order to be able to carry out the function entrusted to them, in a manner consistent with the General Data Protection Regulation. Obviously, together we will support this decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.185.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.186.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, from Republicanism we believe in an inclusive school that guarantees the success of all students. And this is inherent in the existence of real equity in the education system. We want a free system of school segregation, with a balanced distribution of students in this one. And this has to go hand in hand with resources and a reduction in rates at the system's conjunction. And that... you know, counselor, the government is working on it. The republican transformation, therefore, was produced. I'm sure it's not as fast as many of us would like it, but not firmly, efficiently and efficiently. Transforming politics, such as gratuity to children 2, or reduction of rates, as we say, to children 3 the coming course. With the conviction that we are on the right path; therefore, pointing well to the few resources that we have as autonomy to get the student to be well attended. It is precisely for this reason, because of the educational quality of the pupils, that we must ensure that they have all the economic resources necessary for their schooling, and that they do so in a context in which the system has previously reserved places for them according to the reality of each area, in order to ensure the just balance of schooling before they enter the system, both to children 3 and to the first course of compulsory secondary education, so that the resources vacate to a new student who is practically well distributed. For all this, it is that the Generality has the data that it does not currently have to act on, and to do so ensuring the effectiveness of resources allocated to students. And yes, this system, this decree, sets up bidirectionality, and it makes it part of the legal framework. They will share concrete data, necessary to plan, with legal protection. And that's why... it was mentioned that the Ralc's intercancer does not fit in, because in this there are data that are legally to be protected. And when most of the doubts of the parliamentary or critical groups in the decree respect the management of these data, we, our parliamentary group, have the confidence in the professionals that precisely the different administrations manage these data and, therefore, we do not doubt the work of so many professionals in the field of administration. We want, therefore, as already announced by the councillor, that the department, through the local planning tables, the commissions of guarantee of admission and the units of detection, can dispose of the data of the local institutions of families with children in school and situation of vulnerability; a collaboration between administrations that, in short, seeks to end the segregation in order to meet the educational needs and orientation of the students, that many times have difficult socio-economic and socio-cultural situations, already for nationality, the composition of the university, economic activity, access to housing, etcetera. Because if we don't detect vulnerability before entry... we can invest a lot of resources in it, but the reality at the centers now, unfortunately, continues to present segregation, and the pre-detection helps us to avoid vulnerable student concentrations at the same center. Because we are here to transform, not to look at another band, to improve those aspects that do not generate the same opportunities for everyone. So it is essential that this inter-administration data interchange be able to approximate the actual situation of exclusion risk to the right of children's education in each municipality, and act before allocating resources to a pre-distributed student. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.187.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.188.0	Once again, putting in value the pocket of the local world and how, from their knowledge of its ways and ways and collaboration with other administrations, they are the guarantor of a better quality of life. Therefore, we consider necessary, in order to continue to combat segregation, the two measures that will entail the validation of this decree. For one band, a fairer and fairer distribution of entry into the education system, and for the other, that all the students who are identified as vulnerable will be accompanied by an economic amount necessary because all the students of the public school and the concerted having the necessary resources. It can continue to advance against school segregation through pre-detection, specific educational needs, respond to situations, such as, say, socio-economic and socio-cultural, with this two-way data interchange, with a clear benefit for infants and young people. That is why we reiterate the vote in favour of the validation of this decree that we are debating today to begin course 22-23. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.189.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. And, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree, and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. We now vote on the validation of Decree 3/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, the law decree was validated with 81 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 38 abstentions. I also agree with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law has been ratified, I ask the House whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be referred to as the bill. [[Pause.]] As there are various petitions formulated, we put it to the vote, whether this decree is to be dealt with as the bill of law or not. It is also understood that the votes claimed are in favour of their processing, and the votes denied are in favour of their derogation, to the contrary. The vote begins. Given the outcome of the vote, it is understood that the law decree will not be dealt with as draft law, with 26 votes in favour and 105 votes against. [[Proposal for lower tax law on the income of physical persons (debate of totality)]] [[202-00001/13]] Let's move to the sixth point of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the proposal of law to lower the tax on the income of physical persons. This legislative initiative has been presented for the Joint Group, and to present it has the word, for a maximum of two minutes, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.190.0	Thank you very much, President. Catalonia leads the race of autonomous communities with greater fiscal pressure, and not just because it is the autonomous community with more taxes and taxes, but also because in the case of state taxes, over those in which the own Generality of Catalonia has competence, the tax types are the highest of all Spain. The economic recovery that began in 2013, and which represented the end of the crisis that began in 2007, brought to many communities a drop in taxes, above all, the most significant of all, which affected the people most, which was the one referring to the income of physical persons. It wasn't like that in the case of Catalonia, it wasn't like that in the case of Catalans. The Government of Catalonia, along with the example of other autonomous governments, persisted in the error of continuing to perpetuate the winning of Catalonia's taxpayers, increasing the IRPF's tax every time. The approval of the Law 24/2010 of 22 July, approved an autonomous scale of the tax on the income of physical persons that penalised the returns of up to thirty_ thousand euros. The appearance of new renderings... the imports on which it is fixed were clearly detrimental to the citizenry. Since the adoption of this law, the general government's successes have persisted in this political erraticity, maintaining high tax rates at the returns of physical persons and with limited and timid deductions, when they did, that were in few cases, and subsidies, that they do not contribute, as they did a while ago, to the difference of deductions and subsidies from other autonomous communities, that are much more extensive and generous. The legacy of the pandemic and the consequences of it have generated a situation that has not only not caused the Government of Catalonia to have rectified, but also the fact that, all the time in this plenary, it is clearly insufficient; clearly insufficient and that it has wanted to sell to the citizens of Catalonia as a..., practically a revolution, when we have continued to feel, with a great deal of difference, the autonomous community with the highest IRPF in all of Spain. In short, with all this picture, with all this conjuncture, thousands of Catalan families have seen their income reduced due to the health crisis, now inflation and, in change, they have to bear some tax burdens that are absolutely out of date. Coinciding with the pandemic, with the economic activity paralyzed and the consequence of the residential confinement decreed for the state of alarm, it was when the Government of Catalonia approved a modification of the autonomous scale of the income of physical persons who do not respond to the needs – I also said a moment ago – of our society and the needs of families in Catalonia. The Law 5/2020, of 29 April, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures, the one proposed was an increase of the tax type in certain trams, but they did not take advantage of the reform to reduce taxes that support especially low and medium returns, which have been and continue to be the most affected by the crisis we are experiencing. On the other hand, Decree 36/2020 of 3 November on urgent measures in the field of tax on stays at tourist establishments and tax on the income of physical persons created a new deduction in the share of the tax applicable by obligation to submit to the declaration as a consequence of having two or more payers. This deduction could also be coupled with – it was the reform that was approved – many workers affected by an ERT in its effectiveness, which would end up being absolutely null and void. Catalonia's economic, labour and social situation calls for a real tax reform. Everything that has been done so far has been either unacceptable increments or make-up with the sole claim on the part of the advisor to move a tax drop message that does not correspond to reality. They have continued, I insist, very punctual measures that have not served absolutely to the king. And what we are presenting here today is a tax reform; a tax reform that can please us more or less, but it does respond to the need to move a firm message to the Catalan society, and it is: when the worst is happening, the more the Government of Catalonia is involved at the time of lowering taxes. We also believe that this is a reasonable proposal. We are fully aware of the necessary recaptatories that the Government of Catalonia has now, but we are also aware that it needs to be balanced. We cannot have an autonomous community every time with more resources and, in change, families every time with poorer people, which is the situation that has been living in Catalonia in the last few days. The articulation of the proposed law that we present modifies the number of trams in the autonomic scale of the tax, which was approved in the law to which it previously refers, 21/2010, of July 22, and coincides the first five trams with the state. In this way and with this combination, it gives a simplification that we also understand helps to reduce the complexity of the tax. You have the technical detail of the proposal that we are making and that we are submitting to your criteria and to your approval, in your writing – I would be greatly enlarged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.191.0	Thank you very much. Next, for the defense of the totality presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.192.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor... Mr. Fernández, you have today presented your typical law proposal with which you seek to store what you really want and think. Because, under their apparent concern for lower returns and middle class, they were determined to preserve the unjust distribution of income and their understatement for the increase of inequalities. With the support of the extreme right and the extreme right, systematically seek to promote the deregulation of those few things that have remained regulated years of neoliberal policies; seek to preserve the empire of meritracy, the deep hatred of the poor, fiscal retailing, the dismantling of the State and extreme individualism. His tax proposal in relation to the IRPF benefits high returns, very little the media, and, despite his speeches, to which it harms the lower returns. And let me be more clear and simple, in the words of the master, the friend and companion who today left, the Arcadi: "The right has only the butxaca as the ideology. And that's what you guys are presenting here today. Because if we look at the country we have, we see this unfair distribution of income. According to Foessa's report presented two days ago, in the area of Barcelona there are 885,000 people who find themselves in social exclusion, 300,000 more than the year 2018. Ninety-seven thousand have all their active members at the turn– 167,000 find themselves in hard work instability– and 77,000 have no periodic inputs. More than 1 million people live in residential exclusion. A 26.2_per_cent of the population, 725,000 people, pays an excessive expenditure on housing, which implies that it remains in severe poverty a time has faced housing expenses and sub-administrations; this places them in a situation of uncertainty and constant patience, since they do not know if the next month they will be able to pay all the expenses of logging or if they are more likely to push the logging. It's very complicated, for hundreds of thousands of people, to build a life on these conditions. And that's what you agree with now with the 289,9_million euros that the IBEX 35 dome won in 2021, a twenty-one that these same companies won in 2020. In fact, Sabadell Bank advisors, for example, received a total of 44.6 million euros, almost 560_percent more than 2020. But, in fact, the 2021 coup encapsulates the executive president of Iberdrola, who, on the rise of the price of the light – and we are not yet in the current situation – has built up 13.2_million euros; 13.2_million euros in 2021 and 9.4 in 2017. As an example of what exploitation and dispossession of working classes is: between 2018 and 2021 there is a thirty-four_per_cent increase in social exclusion and a single person between 2017 and 2021 there is a thirty_per_cent increase in benefits. Disposal of working classes. Because all economic policy – and I go to your proposal and your proposals – is, first, political and, then, economic, as your name suggests. There is no doubt that the song repeated for almost all governments concerning economic measures that are being taken: "These are the measures that the country needs; the whole population will benefit from it. Neither a minimally important economic policy measure is neutral; it is not a measure that benefits or harms everyone equally. The full measure of economic policy harms and benefits some social sectors. Do you want examples? Lower or push taxes to the richest, lower or push pensions, reduce or deal with work placements. It's not hard to find out, depending on what verb we use, who wins and who loses. First, it decides which social sector will benefit, and then it creates the economic instruments and means that will make it possible. And in this the Government has the opportunity and the ability to redistribute or transfer the money from the top to the bottom, or vice versa. And here I make a decision. And with your proposal you have already made a decision. You say that the current economic and social situation in Catalonia calls for a major tax reform. It is most likely the only sentence we share of all his law proposal. It is a tax reform that avoids large accumulations of economic power, directly retelling the gamma..., or continue, directly retelling the range of economic inequalities by means of a maximum income policy, a maximum income policy, and tax and transfer programs. A maximum income in the estela of the marginal tax tax of one hundred_per_cent to which you make more than 25,000_dollars, that Roosevelt – Roosevelt, not the CUP – proposed the year 1942 – people suspected of being communist. It is necessary to intervene actively to prevent the great private powers such as IBEX 35 from imposing their private will on the State, with the attack on the freedom of the non-rich majority that this supposes. Because that's Republican neutrality. As a matter of fact, it's republican neutrality that is supposed to be in the state, if it's defense of republican freedom. But we already know that you are monarchs, monarchs of that corrupt monarchy and heiress of the franchise, of the one who accepted the legitimacy of the 36th anniversary. But some who say working for the Catalan Republic could apply the principle of republican freedom and neutrality, active intervention and no passive tolerance because they gain the strongest. And if the maximum income is the ground floor, a ground floor, it's a land. We need a substantial land, a universal basic income, an individual, unconditional and universal monetary allocation, not only to alleviate the poor, but to free all of us; that is, to guarantee the material existence of the sea to be citizens and citizens. In the public debate of ideas, everyone seems to agree on the need to work for a fair society, but if you now answer that it is a fair society, surely you would say that it is the one in which everyone is equal before the law. But they know this is fake. We know a poor man doesn't have the same conditions as elites. We know that the material conditions of life condition the interpretation of these laws. This is a clear observation: to speak truly of a just society, it is necessary to ensure that the people are materially independent, or, in other words, that they have a basis for autonomy. That's why a land, makes it universal base, and a foothold, makes it maximum. You, Mr Fernández, in your proposal for a law say "many Catalans and many Catalan families have seen their admissions reduced due to the health crisis, as if it were fatality. The health crisis has arrived and these families have seen their entrances reduced. But we've seen before who's seen their tickets reduced and who's seen them increase. And this is not fatality, it has to do with the economy and the product model that you defend developing from the expectations of private benefit. And, before the unjust distribution of income and the increase of inequalities, as a progressive tax reform; a progressive tax reform that incorporates basic and maximum income. But also, and this cannot be avoided, a participation of the most active public sector and a new model of distribution of income, because, if not, otherwise it is necessary to touch tax types. But it must go further, starting from what I said: the production model is developed from the expectations of the private benefit; therefore, it must be public intervention in the production and in the social relations that develop it. If you're worried about the downs and all of these people who have trouble getting to the end of the month, get down to this and stop working because the economic transfers are going downs and ups and downs, which is what the people of this country need. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.193.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words of Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.194.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, we find ourselves again with this proposal for the law of the People's Party, with a proposal for a tax rebate. A proposal to modify the IRPF's autonomous scale, laid down, should be said, on the existing IRPF's scale at the time when the proposal was presented, April 2021, and which was modified at the last December by means of the bill of measures; modification, later agreed between the Government and the Comú Group, which, as they stated at that time – and coinciding with the words of Javier Pacheco, secretary-general of the Workers' Committees – "does not increase admissions and penalizes mid-term returns to change an IRPF's reduction for lower returns. And it's worth remembering. We cannot say, back to the proposal, that we are surprised that the People's Party presents a proposal with this objective: the reduction of taxes. In fact, as the President of the Government, President Sánchez, said a few days ago, you are specialists in lowering taxes, especially when you are in opposition. Mirin, the Socialist Group and Units for Moving Forward are the first group in the chamber. Still, as is clear, we have no responsibilities for government. We are the alternative to the Government of Catalonia, that we believe it can and should do better, much better than it is doing. And we have the will and the vocation to rule faster than later. We don't have a government responsibility, but we do have a responsibility to act consistently and consistently, we're in government or opposition, and we don't say anything and do business. This proposal is a perfect manifestation of the maximum" do what I say, but not what I do. Sentence converted into an oral emblem of hypocrisy and the most precious summary of the double speech, which is what they do in this proposal. As I said, you ask and propose tax reductions on a regular basis. "With taxes down, they cry out from the opposition, but when they have responsibilities of government – and I refer to their action to the Government of Spain – they do the opposite. Look, I don't think I can say it better than the MP at the Montse Minguez Congress said last week, and she's putting this double speech into evidence. Do you know who approved the set_per_cent tax on electricity production? The PP. Do you know who approved, in 2013, the special electricity tax, of 5,11_per_cent? The People's Party. Do you know who approved the tax on the land? The People's Party. They know who increased the VAT on electricity to twenty-i_per_cent – to twenty-i-u! The People's Party. Who's going to push the IRPF five times? The People's Party. Who's going to push the corporate tax four times? Oh, surprise! The People's Party. Who's going to push VAT twice? The People's Party. Who's going to push the estate tax? The People's Party. And now they're coming up with this law proposal to propose an IRPF drop in the autonomic ladder. We believe that an alternative to government must be found in rigour and not in order to do what you do today with this proposal, just the opposite of what you have done when you have ruled and where you have ruled. I also rigor for what it does to the effects of the reform they plant. Can we calculate the individual effect of this proposal, but what is the impact on the Generality's entries and, therefore, what is the effect in less services to the citizen, which are also indirect returns that citizens perceive? That's right, these redistributive effects of wealth. They don't tell us that, and they don't care. Indeed, as Mr Fernández said, at the time when you made the proposal, the same way that you were now, in the midst of the pandemic in April 21, and with the crisis caused by the invasion of Ukraine at these times. But your only proposal is to lower taxes? It's a formula that didn't work in Spain before the inflation and energy crisis caused by the 73rd oil crisis, and it's not the solution now. The balance between a fair, progressive and equitable taxation, with the coverage of public service financing needs, is essential, and more so that, with complete certainty, social needs will increase. Fortunately, the paradigm of service retailing, the reduction of the public sector, has passed to history before the general observation across Europe and also to the United States of the falsification of this policy as received in response to the crisis that began in 2007, and to which we would again seek the application of its model. Since our group has defended – we have demonstrated on very repeated occasions – the need for a thorough tax reform in Catalonia, in order to make it fairer, fairer and progressive and also effective. We believe that we have grown up in tax figures in a disorderly way, without a vision of a social, economic and economic outlook; that we can straighten out and order the tax system, which has evolved through initiatives – sure that well-intentioned, but dispersed – with a proliferation of tax figures in the appropriate taxes that in some cases is more likely than in question the effectiveness of these tax figures; also, a negotiation date that will take time to approve assumptions. All this makes it essential, in our view, to face this reform, guaranteeing sufficient tax revenues, but improving in the use of fiscal policy, to serve, in the first place, the objectives of redistribution of income and the guarantee of equal opportunities through public services. But also to the service of the objectives of economic dynamism, of the objectives of reindustrialization of the country, of the retention, repatriation and attraction of talent, that bring us growth and, therefore, better to benefit, and contribute to the energetic transition. But his proposal, even when it refers to the necessary tax reform, does not in this sense: it is a modification..., a proposal to modify the reform solely and exclusively of the IRPF of the autonomous scale. It is or would be a bit more than sin of the same lack of global vision of the fiscal model of Catalonia. For all these reasons, our vote, as I have said and as a woman to hear, will be contrary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.195.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.196.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, counselor Giró. Well, in this case, with this proposal for you, we might agree, almost, if we change some paragraph, right? Says: "Anyone rere year, Catalonia leads the race of autonomous communities with greater fiscal pressure. We have asked: "Any year, Catalonia is leading the gathering of communities with the greatest fiscal deficit. We could also say: "Anyone rere year, Catalonia leads the path of the major systemic failure of the statutory commitment to equip the state's investments with Catalonia's GDP, the dinosaur_per_cent or 19,9_per_cent. Or we could even add it to it: "Anyone rere year, Catalonia leads the path of the smallest execution of the reversal that compromises the State at our home. [[Greetings.]] 2020, the year to which he refers to Congressman Fernández, a twenty-i-three_per_cent execution by the State; 2021, the year we could think of the dam, a thirty-u_per_cent. And we could keep going through years before, and we could even make a bet for the year 22. In fact, we could recover the Job Development report in which is almost 40,000_millions xifrava the deficit of investments in structures of the State. And that would certainly help to reduce, therefore, the impacts of the 2008-2009 crisis, the impacts of the 155 application, the impacts of the pandemic, of course. They also tell us that Catalonia is the place with the greatest fiscal pressure. But it's all related, just a few weeks ago, the Registry of Tax Advisor Economists, the REF, published its annual report. Says: « Catalunya the year 21, certainly – and perhaps we should say « saddened», « is present the community with the tax on income more because for the gross contributions between twenty-thousand and thirty-thousand, but not so for other trams. On the trams..., for example, Euskadi or Extremadura or Navarre, on the highest trams, and, to make more than 110,000, which is the Valencian Community. Therefore, this absolute statement is not true; it is relative. And also, as has already been said, the proposal put forward by the People's Party, the Joint Group, would in this case benefit them higher, not that they do have the highest fiscal pressure, which would, as we say, be lower and middle class. It is also a matter of the 2010 modification of the autonomous scale, but I do not think it is a question of what was introduced with the 2020 law of measures, in this case, with the agreement made, in this case, with the party of the commons, to improve precisely the lower ones. Nor is it said that it was the Constitutional Court that suspended this application. Nor does it appear that just a few months ago, at the proposal of the Economics Councillor and Councillor Giró, we were going to make a surprise of this feeling of the Constitutional, putting a drop in the lower sections of the IRPF that practically benefited the eighty-eight percent of Catalans. Or, for example, introduce new measures – also in this case with the pact with the common ones – such as the deduction, for example, for the usual logger, which extends to single-parent families. But always thinking of taxation for those families, those most sensitive, most vulnerable people; not, therefore, the proposal presented to us by the Mixed Group. I also think it's very demagic to relate the pandemic situation and the affect in Catalonia for what it does to the number of adults or people affected by ERTOs with the IRPF. Yes, it is true that Catalonia, in 2020, has risen by 131,000 tolls, a 32.5_per_cent; but it is also true that Madrid, which is not an example, precisely, of high taxation– precisely it is the opposite, the community with less fiscal pressure–, has grown by 127,700 tolls, xifra similar to Catalonia, but it is a thirty-sis_per_cent– a four_per_cent higher. So, do you relate the supposed fiscal pressure or major fiscal pressure at some point to the influence on the ERTOs or the weather? People don't even know. Is it related to economic recovery? People don't even know. In fact, published for The Newspaper – a medium that is not necessary, therefore, pro-independenceist –..., we pose how the contract has recovered, that is, the occupation, at the length of 2021, and they have nothing to see, the seven communities or provinces that increase the occupation, with the IRPF. Actually, the one with the lowest IRPF, which is Madrid, isn't exactly the one that grows the most in business, huh? I, therefore, have nothing to do with one thing. It's also about 2020, but it's not about 2021, and it's not about the dam or the economic recovery. And, therefore, it is also not clear that, in 2021, Catalonia, together with Balears, lead the creation of occupation and the reduction of the atur, not even as..., before 2019, but rather over the state media and over the rest of the communities, and also without any..., has nothing to do with the IRPF, because precisely communities that have the lower IRPF are not the ones that lead neither the creation of occupation nor the reduction of the atur. Therefore, another show more of political demagogicity. Nor does it mention its economic consequences. It is a proposal that would come into force in 2023 for the effects of the IRPF; therefore, recaptancy, 2024, therefore..., or continue, application to the income of 24, and, therefore, to the assumption of 2025. What's the impact? A few €702 million, and, as we say, favours higher returns and not the most vulnerable. In fact, as Councillor Giró has said over and over again, we have to defend Catalonia's fiscal progressive model and fight other phenomena, huh? All the other phenomena like tax havens, right? , tax dumping of other communities. In the states, precisely, in those that we admire, competitiveness and..., everything is based very much on progressivity, social justice and solidarity; this is the way we should engage with the IRPF in Catalonia. These 702 million euros, in fact, do not resolve either the failure of the additional provision of the Statute or the failure of the State to make investments in Catalonia, which would certainly have a direct impact on job creation, on social and economic improvement and, therefore, on the reduction of unemployment. That would be a real application, but we can't see that in speaking at any time from the Mixed Group. Finally, as has already been said, it is clear that a tax reform would be necessary. Therefore, the tax reform that is needed is to have a proper taxation; the tax reform that is needed, the better tax reform – I think I have already said it another day, but I repeat – would be economic and financial independence, fiscal independence, especially independence as a country, because we could apply the model of country that we defend, as I said, with the most just progress, without the incidence of the State, without there being any need to think that a constitutional court can fall standards or modifications that we approve of in this Parliament. And, therefore, this would be the best tax reform for our country: independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.197.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.198.0	Thank you, President. I think I can hear him, Mr. Fernández, don't I? Since your minority representation in this Parliament today, you are trying to be seen, survive, gesticulate, that someone thinks exists. In fact, with this proposal, what it does is to compete – exact, yes – directly with its VOX companies, right? , to prove that the PP is equal to or more willing than VOX to anorrecate the Catalan self-government– and « anorrerate, as you know perfectly, means reduce the non-res, delete, delete, delete. Today they do so using the traditional way of conservative forces: to reduce taxes to higher income levels and, at the same time, to reduce our ability to provide public services; that is, the magnificent combination that the Catalan PP seems to have adopted: Help more VOX – fantastic. And today the People's Party, therefore, sets up the table one of the staves of its model: the fiscal privileges of some, of the few and rich, loaded on the scales of those they least have. Its proposal – you know perfectly well – is a waste of €702.1 million; it is more than all the room for manoeuvre we have in the territory of tax concessions, which is 588_million, a little more than that. To make your proposal come true, so we should..., what can we do? Reduce, dispense with the 90_million to make the child 2 free? Of the 291 million additional investment in education? Of the 585 additional reversal in salvation? From which of these should we dispense, according to you? But, uh, we're talking about the fund question, too, huh? , which, of course, does not appear in his proposal. What else do we need to know – we may ask ourselves – to confirm the structural imbalance of a model that holds us almost zero responsibility for fiscal policy and revenue and recaptancy and, at the same time, full responsibility for the inevitably growing public, social, educational and health spending? These 588_millions are only 2.15_percent of the Generality's totals – one and a half if we count on it, if we include the financing expenditure. It seems to me that it is very obvious that this is not the situation we can accept. His proposal, moreover, is highly regressive. It benefits much more than the richest per cent, roughly nine hundred euros per capita– with a drop of nine hundred euros per capita–, than the twenty per cent with the lowest income level– that precisely because of this does not pay – and, therefore, could not get the benefits of this proposal, in change, but would obviously suffer the loss of public services that they would assume. They still do not understand that the main problem of our global taxation in the Spanish State, and even more so in Catalonia, is the lack of public resources – the lack of public resources in its conjunction. Those who have the most pay too little and enjoy too much tax privileges. Those who work less, render them or with capital benefits, pay a little too much compared to those who depend on the work to survive; that is, wage earners and self-employed people. This is the situation, this is the status quo. It is a shared diagnosis for economists and academics and world-wide law enforcement institutions. The Bank of Spain tells us that the recovery on GDP to the Spanish State is under the middle of the twenty-eighth countries of the European Union and under the middle of the OECD. I tell you the International Monetary Fund when it says that it is necessary to increase the tax base and boost green taxation in order to bring the recovery rate on GDP to the European average. The OECD notes that in its last report it stated that the tax rate on GDP is behind Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, including Luxembourg, and that it was below the OECD average for the income tax or, in particular, on the business benefit. And, of course, the researchers, those of the OECD themselves, did not find the languages at the time of describing Madrid how it works as an internal tax haven. The conclusion is clear: there is an urgent need to consolidate the public sector entrances to the conjunction of the State, not only in Catalonia – especially in Catalonia, given the data of deficiency that we have just remembered. But before this need, we have done the dues; first, at the stage of Vice President Junqueras; then, with Vice President Aragonès, and now with President Aragonès and Councillor Giró. And with these first assumptions of the new republic government, we are actually driving a tax of progress and green. A block driven from 2017 – being in touristic establishments, emission of gases, nitrogen oxides, carbon dioxide – on installations that affect the environment. A block of ambitions of taxation of progress, also: reforms of the IRPF of 2017, 2020 and 2022, of estates and donations, of large commercial establishments, or on, certainly, empty habitats, which we have reformed to include-there also the great owners. Work done to ensure that whoever earns the most tea, inherits and pollutes also contributes more and better to the common good. And to the other band we will find ourselves with this false liberalism of the People's Party – a poorly digested copy of thatcherism, of course – which ignores that the foundation of genuine genuine liberalism should be equal opportunities, as Adam Smith always reminded us, which led to the fact that it is very reasonable for the rich to contribute to public spending, not only in proportion to their admissions, but also more than in this proportion. But you do the opposite. You propose that the rich pay no less, but as little as they can. And they did it, they did it historically. Yours is not a bet for the free market, it's a bet for inequality. It's not genuine liberalism, it's a policy designed to maintain the privileges of a few. Certainly, it is a policy in which its maximum exponent, the Madrid that has ruled the People's Party for 20 years, is only sustainable with the connivance of the State and the Central Administration. It is the capitalist effect that allows fiscal dumping and is certainly the inaction of the present progressive government, which is unable to legislate to limit it. They wondered why Madrid is present and only Madrid is the only autonomous community that I want to exercise tax havens? Why in Andalusia, the government, or Galicia, which have governments of the PP and part of VOX, do not do the same, and in change they are in victims of this tax haven Madrid? They still see that they do not know that the case of Madrid is not an example of a liberal policy of low taxation, but an explicit display of a policy of growing centralization and of state capital converted into a black hole that drains savings and benefits the rest of the state. Do you know or don't you? An illustration, from all angles, of the malfunction of the current system in our tickets: if only from the tickets given, from the entrances from the model of..., not « the tickets given–forgive –, the entrances from the model of financing, 2022, this year, we would owe 978_million respect to the State, if we had not done what it gave before, a reasonable, progressive and green policy of open and yielded entrances. Still lucky we did, huh? , and it still happens that we have made a certain bargaining force to the State to obtain better or better commitments or recovery of commitments on investments, on Mossos, on other sectors. All right. In conclusion, Mr Fernández: the rise of anti-public anti-tax populism does not fight against the maintenance and consolidation of the status quo, but with a public compromise and decided for a fair and republican taxation. But we see, yes, that one day and another, the most progressive government in history is unable to emerge from this mental mark, from the mental mark that the right established, and that it has forgotten to use fiscal policy as a tool of solidarity and social justice. Any excuse is good today, it seems, so as not to face the dues pending from the central government. For the involutions that come in this legislature, the most progressive government of history has good intentions – I'm afraid those of which hell is stoned – to continue working with tax reform, huh? , to get more reports, to discuss, to value, to... Escort, no prediction that this has the least possibility to become effective decision. Today, in this same Ple we will have an example with the reason of the PSC, which buys the false speech of the escape of entrepreneurs to justify a race to non-res in fiscal matters and environmental regulations. Yesterday the PSC spokesman, while the president legitimately claimed greater room for deficit for our assumption, she proposed..., nothing more than asking for less tax. It's clear, very clear, which is the situation. I do not mean to say, therefore, that we will vote for the speech to the totality presented in this Chamber, because we do not waste any more time and do not repeat other debates, such as this, useless, with a proposal that does not contribute to making a Catalonia either fairer, closer, more early or more free. We want a state close to us so we can tackle this work, to boost a tax of progress, to protect access to housing, to limit the accumulation of renters. But as long as the tools are in the hands of the State, we will not fail to claim that which corresponds to us in law and justice. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.199.0	Next, to express his position after the defense of the papers presented to the totality, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.200.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today there are too many families that do not arrive at the end of the month – too many. Many self-employed and many companies are experiencing real problems to be able to square their accounts. Many people need to be able to increase their disposable income. Many people, many families don't know how they're going to pay the rent at the end of the month, don't know if they're going to be able to turn on the heating and don't know if they're going to be able to pay the bill for the light. That's the picture of Catalonia in this 2022, April 2022. That's the situation. In this context, let a few politicians come here to say that 'he hears, that this is that of high, excessive taxes..., and if we raise taxes, that this is great, that we must continue to smash to taxes those people who do not know how they will be able to pay the receipt at the end of the month, so, man, it seems irresponsible to me. At least not sensitive [[applause]] ; not sensitive to the situation of so many people. Inflation is triggered: 9.8. The political system, absolutely atrophied and oversized. The energy, at the price of gold. The debt deficit in Catalonia and Spain is also very high. And there's an imposing fiscal pressure. There are different studies that say so, that in Catalonia, the regulatory fiscal pressure is the highest in Spain. And different studies have said that. So, we don't come here... because we've told you many times: we don't come here to invent some data, we come with those studies and it can be perfectly demonstrated. And all those taxes from that very high tax pressure, what are they used for? « No, for education and for health. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... part of it. And another very important part, which we have quantified in more than 1,000_million_of_euros, to maintain separatist chiringuitos. We all know that. Even the PSC has given us reason with that figure and with that fact. Therefore, it is not only for health and education. "We have to raise taxes, because, if not, there is no health and education. Look, don't treat us like we're in the nursery, we know perfectly well what money this region is spending on. Labour promotion has said, that this is a real fiscal hell. And why does he say that? Does he make it up, too? Look, last year, 15 taxes of your own. This year, as we saw in the budgets, they create three or four more – it is that I have lost count –: that of the CO2 emissions of the ships, the one destined to tax the ultra-processed food, that of the CO2 emissions against the industries – they want to go up, I read yesterday, also with that of the nuclear ones, they want to go up –, and now also..., ah! I also read the other day that they were working on creating a new tax to tax online trade. They don't stop. They have a terrible imagination. The classics; the taxes, the classics. Property transfer tax: according to all these study services, the third parties of Spain. Idem for the inheritance and donation tax, figure that, by the way, yesterday VOX called for the abolition in the Congress of Deputies. Idem for property tax, it also threatens to consume family businesses, as we saw at the time, in their proposal that they sent to the committee of experts for tax reform. IRPF, what we're dealing with. It has been recognized by the spokesman of Junts : the rents of thirty_ thousand euros, from twenty to thirty_ thousand euros, are the ones that pay the most in Spain. They're also the majorities. And are they satisfied with that? Are you satisfied that, in the budget debate, you have raised, sold out in a barrel and dish, a vicious tax reform with an impact of EUR 25_million? And are you proud that the lowest rents are the ones that pay the most in Spain? Is that a policy, you know, that at least there can be no debate in this Parliament? Listen, there are some we say: "Hey, we don't want to be the champions of this tax supermegapression either or we don't want to be the champions of Spain when it comes to paying IRPF. Let's see, I think anyone who's read some economy knows all this. Excess fiscal pressure has a very clear effect on the economy from a macro point of view: it reduces competitiveness, scares investors, reduces savings, reduces – in the long run – tax bases, scares business investment, displaces companies. I think there is a motion that is being debated today about why a lot of companies are leaving from Lérida to Aragon. Well, it has to do with this, too. Of course it has to do with that! So we cannot avoid the influence of fiscal pressure on the smooth functioning of the economy in the region. We, let's see, there are some things about the motion... philosophy. We agree with the philosophy proposed by the Joint Group: it has to tend to lower the IRPF, the autonomous scale. There are some issues that I believe that, in the end, I believe that they could have been corrected there, they could have been raised better. On tax deductions, it does not make much reference, the proposal. We have defended it in committee: we think that tax deductions can be introduced, a matter in which we are also behind Spain's back. For example, educational expenses. You can't deduct educational expenses here. It is the only autonomous community in Spain where one cannot deduct educational expenses. There you can improve, for example, right? And then there's a question... man, I think if you want to address an IRPF reform you have to take into account the context. And what is the context? Inflation 9.8. Then we have to deflate the rates. I think that to do this right, to not make a reform churro, logically you have to deflate rates, study what macro impact it will have on the initial proposal, and then play a little bit with the minimum exemptions and deductions. I think there is a lot of room for change in Catalonia's economic policy. The fiscal burden in Catalonia can and should be eased. We can and must reduce unnecessary political spending, promote structural reforms that give our economy more competitiveness, more ability to attract businesses to create decent and quality jobs. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.201.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.202.0	Well, good morning. We do not share the content or objectives of the law's proposal to lower the IRPF. Neither do we share Mr Fernández's proposal, nor do we share Mr Fernández's intervention, nor, of course, that of the previous Member, who concurs in the positions of Mr Fernández, because we do not share the principles in which this law proposal is based, we disagree with the value they explain in the preamble and we do not consider that changing the autonomous tax scale on the income of physical persons in the terms that are proposed contributes to or makes the tax system more progressive or sufficiently or more just. What I don't like either is that they tend to justify policies based on lies, which is what makes this proposal for law badly. If you want to make a policy, you can argue it, you can look for the reasons, you can, after all, have an argument based on your principles, but what you can't do is support it in lies. And, sadly, in the law's proposition, in the preamble, a sequence of lies is wiped out. It begins with Catalonia leading the race of autonomous communities with greater fiscal pressure from the State. It's not true – it's not true – we're the third ones. With thirty-four percent of fiscal pressure, we're after Cantabria and after the Islands. We're not the leaders, we're the third, we're not the first. And, in any case, it is better that we do not see that our thirty-four_per_cent is at 39,4_per_cent of mid-European Union tax pressure, even more at 40,1_per_cent of Germany, forty-four_per_cent of Belgium or forty-sis_per_cent of France. I obviously talk about Finland, Denmark or Norway. It is also true that I am not talking about Bulgaria or Romania, which are at twenty-i-five, twenty-i-sis_per_cent. But in any case, what is obvious is that our fiscal pressure is under the European media and very under the most advanced countries in the European Union. And this fiscal Britain that we have with the European Union, this fiscal gap, the sixty-eighth_per_cent of the Brittany is mainly explained in social contributions, in IRPF and in inheritance taxation. That explains this tax Bretxa in a nutshell. I'm leaving you with tax fraud or other questions. The second lie they're lying about. They say it's the highest tax type in the state. It's not true, we're on shifts. We're on the 45.5 of Madrid, that's right. We're also 54% of the Valencian country. It's not the highest tax type in Catalonia, it's, if any, another autonomous community. We're the quarters, not the first. It is also the punishment of Catalonia's taxpayers. It's not true – it's not true. Taxation in finance governments, political finance, social policies. Maybe it would be worth it if we started doing pedagogy. Because fiscal policy doesn't punish, because they're not burdened, they're tax contributions. Perhaps I would be convinced that we are beginning to explain that taxes are not a tax burden, but are a tax contribution to the welfare of the citizenry. As a judge of the Supreme Court of the United States of North America, who liked to pay taxes, because paying taxes was buying civilization. It would be worth it if we were pedagogy with fiscal policies. There is also an impact of unemployment for the pandemic, which 1_million_i_mig citizens of Catalonia have been in the ERTOs. And it's true. But what's it like to pay ERTOS? How can tax cuts be made when we recognise that, precisely, crises generate more needs than they need to be covered, precisely, with public receipts, with sufficient tax? Therefore, let us not consider that this proposal of law has a positive element. It is true that there is one thing that we agree on: that we need a real tax reform that will reverse – and this is where we do not agree – in a remarkable and widespread way the tax burden of Catalan taxpayers. We need a tax reform, it's necessary, but not on the assumption that you plant or that you plant. Because if we are to have a tax reform, it is precisely to get closer to Europe, to build a true welfare state. We cannot forget that today in Catalonia the twenty-i-five percent of the population is at risk of poverty. We can't even forget that the percent of boys and girls are early school dropouts. Nor can we forget the 771,000 people today who are on waiting lists or who are still far from the twenty-i-five percent of health care spending in primary care. And if we want to cover these elements, we need a tax reform that gives more enough input. And, therefore, the tax reform will have to be completed by increasing the tax pressure to cover this six-point gap in revenue, which, consequently, is also transferred to a gap in Brittany, in short, over expenditure. And this will go on to act on the IRPF, along with other possible tax measures. That's why we don't share the point that you put in your proposal to reduce the tax type of the IRPF in Catalonia to place the tax pressure in the middle of the Spanish conjunction. Because, precisely, that's not the problem, but it's just the opposite of the solution we need. We consider tax receipts not to finance governments, to finance public policies, to be fundamentally social policies. And we're getting a little bit, the ability to spend is little. A just tax system must ensure equal opportunities. And this implies, for example, having an imposition of successions in the line of access to a universal inheritance. A just tax system implies supporting the principles of benefits, economic capacity, generality, progressivity and justice. And we've made it clear to the coven. We all agreed that the health system was a treasure to protect. And that we can only do with a just and sufficient tax system. We seem to have quickly forgotten now that we are talking about lowering taxes. From this crisis we will only get out with a tax reform that allows to increase public entrances and build a real welfare state and face the threefold challenge that we have of inflation, growth and debt, but necessarily with a tax reform that guarantees sufficient entrances. That's why we're against your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.203.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.204.0	MPs, MPs, councillors... so I think Catalonia does need a fiscal revolution. The problem is what it is and what it measures, but I think it is. He was talking about Europe right now. Mr Gallego, the German liberals have just entered the government with the eco-socialists, with the greens and with the German Social Democrats, and the first one they have done is to lower taxes. So, yes, it is. And I think that's a government of progress. Maybe for you, no, but it is. Therefore, possibly Europe is also walking to another place, to another path. And they have obviously followed the German liberals who have been able to propitiate this fall in taxes on Germany. And they know that, and they all know that. But Catalonia needs structural changes in fiscal matters – it needs to – that end with erratic policies that have created a system imposed on the card by more radical populism and interventionism. And we could call it a lot of other adjectives, but I'll put it down and leave it with this adjective, which I think is more or less ambiguous and includes diplomats. And he does it in a community that needs all the opposite, and we could actually do all the opposite. So we find ourselves with a definition of trams and types of current IRPF on Catalonia..., and yes, yes, it is true, Catalonia has the double honor of being the autonomous community that applies the greatest fiscal pressure of all Spain to taxpayers who are found on the middle trams – we have already said, and Mr. Munell has said: thirty thousand and twenty thousand. That's what the REF said; he said it, and that's it. In fact, the autonomous community that applies lower taxes to higher returns is the Valencian Community; that is also true. But we have the highest tax pressure on these trams, which are the eighty per cent of the population that contributes to taxes in Catalonia. I don't think anyone can doubt that reducing income capacity has consequences on a good part of the population, especially on this population, this majority population; and it's still more in a complex economic and social situation after the pandemic. And that's it. And with one we believe that he mismanaged the social policies that have taken place in Catalonia. Because we're also leading other ranks. We also lead the quests, for example, of waiting lists in dependence or, discordantly, we also lead the quests as the growth of the poor to all of Spain. Therefore, it has not served much of the fiscal policy that we have done so far. At least it didn't help to reduce the poor in Catalonia. Something we're doing wrong. But, well, here the debate is always the same and we've always done everything right and no one here assumes any kind of responsibility. I sincerely believe that this reality, more – and we know it – violates or at least affects vulnerable communities, such as pensioners, and that a change, a change in this policy, would be an important contribution to economic recovery and a capacity for education, increasing the purchasing power of citizens. Go on, I think some obviously positive consequences. It is possible to act on the IRPF, for example– and so we have done and we have asked and proposed it to the Congress of Deputies – with the deflation of this IRPF, because the trams can adapt to inflation, because a city does not end up paying for a purchasing capacity that it no longer possesses to fulfill the constitutional mandate, in fact, that the tax system has to adhere to the principle of economic capacity. But the reality is that the IRPF ends up punishing the lower sections and inflation still makes it more dramatic. Therefore, the increase in fiscal pressure over the last few years has – I think this is a conclusion – led to these lower taxes being paid and the real income being lower. The public authorities should do everything possible to avoid precisely this situation and that these make it possible to maintain or to maintain their purchasing capacity shields. And this Parliament we think isn't doing it. There are other measures, obviously, as discussed here. It has been said... Mr. Gallego spoke before, too, of what we use of this evil 1,000_million euros, which, in fact, Ciutadans already calculated last legislature and that some here, none..., some parties here did not just believe it. In the end, they're gone. He joined the Socialist Group with a very similar sum during the election campaign. I don't know if... a little, so we're happy to have promoted this calcium, and it looks like VOX has done this calcium now, too. It's obvious we've spent money there where we shouldn't spend money. But we propose that this reality or that this proposition of law, as a minimum, may be debated. We will not block the debate on this bill and, therefore, allow its processing. We believe that it can be done in another way – and we have also said so. We don't think you'll just have to touch the renders, in this case, of the lower trams, but also the higher ones, to balance the lower ones that can be made in the lower trams. Therefore, our proposal is serious, perhaps, different. They think it would be more balanced. We believe that, in some way, it would also be fairer and fairer. But this proposal, at least, would have to be debated. And we should add to this reform also the deflation of what we have talked about; I think it could be realized and it could be done. Therefore, we say again that we defend or believe that this fiscal revolution is possible, that it is being done to other countries of Europe, to those countries which for many are referent; that the liberals have brought it to other places of Europe, and that, in this case, even though we do not agree with the proposal exactly that the PP, we will not vote against it, because I believe that this issue must be discussed. I, Mr Maragall, must be able to speak... Mr Maragall, must be able to speak of everything in this Parliament – of everything. You, who always speak of republican radicality..., of everything, and even of it you can share that, according to you, you do not have a great representation, but after – after – – Mr.Maragall, you say that it is very important the population that there is in a region or not. Clearly, it is; everyone is important to give their opinion. And this debate has to be made here, I proposed it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.205.0	So the debate is over, we shall proceed to the joint vote of the three items on the full return of the bill's proposal. The vote begins. In view of the result, given that the total votes were 114 votes in favour and 17 votes against, this initiative remains rejected. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.206.0	Let's resume the session. [[Proposition of the law of transitory and urgent measures to combat and eradicate sensillarism (debate of totality)]] [[202-00029/13]] And we do so on the agenda item, the debate on the proposal for a law on transitory and urgent measures to deal with and eradicate sensillarism. As you know, this initiative has been presented by seven parliamentary groups: the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar, the Republican Group of Esquerra, the Joint Group for Catalonia, the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle per Guanyar, the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pode, Ciutadans and the Mixed Group, which have also presented an issue to the whole with alternative text. Therefore, in the first place, and in order to present the initiative and defend the issue to the totality, one representative of each group will intervene for a maximum time of seven minutes. Mr Raúl Moreno will begin in the first place on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.207.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... I would like to greet the representatives of the five social entities that have been drivers and drivers of this law of transitory and urgent measures to deal with and eradicate sensillarism. Parlo d'Assis Centre d'Acollida, Fundació Arrels, Caritas Catalunya, Comunidad de Sant'Egidio and Sant Joan de Déu Serveis Socials. Greeting, too, the presence of Professor Antoni Milian and Massana, professor of law and administration of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, who, with other professors, has directed this legislative text that today we pose to the consideration of the chamber. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress wants to take a step forward in the recognition of the invisible of our society. They're usually in places, on the street; we see them, but we don't look at them. Sensellarism is probably the cruelest expression of inequality, poverty and exclusion from our societies. We are, we live in unequal societies, very unequal. There's someone looking at a person who's in the street, in a situation of sensellarism, and he thinks it's what he's done wrong because that person is in this situation. And we, who are political leaders and people who are committed to social progress, need to take another look: we need to think about what our system has done wrong, what we are doing wrong, to make people who are in a state of life for years; what we are failing. And I believe that this legislative text helps us to make this change of look, from invisible people to « let themselves be seen and seen, as tarragonine anthropologist Marta Allué says. Sensellarism is a very complex phenomenon. It is a clearly urban phenomenon, affecting the turn of divorcing people in Catalonia. It's not just a habitat problem, but it's basically a habitat problem. I associate, often, problems of additions, problems of alcoholism, of mental health, of a lack of social network; obviously, of an incorporation into the world of work, of chronic diseases, of lack of resources. And it's all these problems that need to be dealt with in a comprehensive way. In short, we could talk about a plurality, which could be summed up in three main factors: individual factors, structural factors and social factors. And the need to act to eradicate sensellarism..., not just as a parliamentary group – that we have because we consider it to be a struggle against this unequal society–, but also because we are told by the European Social Charter, the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, the plan against the sensellarism of the Government of Spain and also the plan against the sensellarism of Catalonia, which was put out in March 2016 and which five years later – five years later – coincided with the entry on the agenda of this plenary of this legislative text, the Government last week presented, five years later, the year 2016. Well, that's the end of it, but, I insist, five years later. The proposal of the law that we present today invites us to do this analysis, this change of look, as I said. And this law is addressed to those who see on the street or who spend the night in boarding houses, in rooms, in residential establishments. It wants to focus on promoting their protection; promoting, integrating, inserting and emancipating people in situations of sensillaryism. We'll have to talk about your right to control, to use a decent residential space, a transport title, a slogan, a buggery, a dutxa, a right to vote, a right to hold an old room the day they die. At this point, the vast majority of them are directly buried. We are talking about things as simple and important, from the point of view of dignity, as having an old room or an oratori. We will have to talk about the right to romance in public space, about pursuing any kind of discrimination that can be produced towards people in situations of sensibility; about guaranteeing their right to health care. And it also speaks, in this law, of the coordination and governance bodies that will make it possible. For another band, it will be hot to count how many people you find on the street. In this they have helped us the entities of the third sector and they have helped us, too, many together. The vast majority of gatherings – I put the big ones behind me, for a question of volume – know how many people are living on the floor. Social services even know the names of people, and many and many of them have the services, some of whom recognize this law, you serve basics. This, this experience of the local world, may hold it as a positive factor at the time of being able to enrich the legislative text that enters this Parliament today. We're not starting from scratch. Therefore, the social intervention of the joints we have to put in value and we have to take advantage of it as an accumulated experience that will also serve us. Now, a priori we have three aspects that the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units will discuss during the debate. In the first place, it is not possible to charge on the scales of the municipalities, the cost of this law. If there are no economic resources to support this law, it will not be possible to do so. We can have, as we have, many more fantastic laws, superpioneers, if you want, but we will not give a solution to the problems if there is no increase in the assumption of social services. It will be impossible, moreover, to lay down the scales of the municipalities and the hands of the professional nine actions in order to try to reduce sensellarism. Secondly, the main recourse against sensellarism is one of the main social problems in Catalonia. Housing or, better yet, lack of social housing is a problem for the conjunct of the city; also, and especially, for people without home. And third, to scale resources not so much according to the volume of the population– whether you have, twenty or fifty thousand inhabitants–, but by the presence of people without land. And let's say, besides, that these residential resources can be pooled, can be shared with other municipalities, because what you need to do is a law that's effective. And on this line, we will make our contributions during the discussion process. We share a good part of the legislative text. That's why we picked him up from the first day we met with the entities. We need to take a step forward. It's got to be brave. Cal, too, be pioneers in laws of these characteristics. And, therefore, gratify the power of organised civil society. And now what it takes is to be on top of the fete proposal. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.208.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.209.0	Thank you, President, Members, Members, and also, of course, to the driving forces of this legal text that accompany us today and see, by the way, the fruit of so much time, so much time of work – very well done, we must also say. Today we find ourselves in front of the approach of this chamber, finally, of a text of law to address the problem so difficult that we have in this country, with the situation of sensularism of a lot of veins and veins coming from various municipalities. Yes, it is true that sensellarism is a problem that is mainly concentrated in urban areas, and from here, of the main analyses of the main cities of the country, so we do not always extract indicative data, we understand..., because of the antiquity they have, because of the methodology they have used, say that they are indicative, but they can give us a little light to hear the abst of the problem. As Congressman Moreno pointed out in his intervention, he has an abscess of close to a few people, who I would like to unravel a little..., understand the different types of situations of sensellarism. Because it's true that..., of people who sleep on the floor – that would be the most identifiable situation for all of us –, people who are living in settlements, people who are staying only at hotels destined for this problem or people who live on a regular basis in public or public-private equipment intended for the management of their situation..., but we would talk about the hardest cases, roughly, of about four thousand people, who are either sleeping on the floor or sleeping on the floor every day. We want to highlight some of the things in this text, which, as I said, has been a difficult task of the driving forces and negotiations between the different parliamentary groups. But we certainly value it above all, such as the rights of people without home. We find specifically interesting that it is about worthy countries and it refers to the hostile architecture that we have in many of the cities of the country; access to services of dutxa, bugaderia and slogan; access to low-requirement centers, they understand that this helps to recover the dignity that these people so much need. And, from a lack of protection, from a recovery of this dignity and this empowerment as self-governing people..., the title of free transport, the right to a dignified death – through the service of tantors –, the right to public space – that we consider fit for the prevention of violence. And, of course, we highlight the reference to access to the padro as the gateway to basic social rights. We also have, in this imaginary collection, very typified that we understand what we can perceive as the person in a situation of sensillarism. And we always think that they are people with a very concrete profile – big people, with an unhealthy aspect – that we can even think that they are guilty of their situation, etc., but we do not see the invisibilities among the invisibilities that are people without a home, such as the young guardians and the extute ones, who escape or leave the centers and do not have a housing alternative, and therefore, to a large extent, they are sleeping in the streets; the people who are migrated, who, in order to have an irregular administrative situation or an administrative irregularity overcome, also end up in the street, and, above all, the great invisibilities between the problem of sensellarism, such as women. Genre sensellarism is a very important issue that we highlight a lot in this legal text. As we say, among these classifications of people without a home, following the classification of the European Federation of National Entities, there are thirteen classifications. And this law addresses the first three, that we would understand that they are the hardest, do not need, in any case, the following. But because, as the text says, consistency in the approach of the problem, so, we focus on these three, which are: people who are at home, people who spend the night in hotels and people who live in equipment. We particularly welcome the fact that it is a transitory and non-permanent measure, because one of the concessions that we, like a parliamentary group, have made in this law text is the acceptance of the public-private model, which allows private entities and foundations to manage a public service. We have done so precisely because of this willingness and compromise of express and explicit transitoryness in the law, which allows us, like the Popular Unit Candidate, to accompany the specialized entities that are pushing this text. Now, we cannot fail to point out that the professionalization of social assistance through foundations and entities in the third sector has the peril of chronising this model, and that the existence of agreements and agreements with these entities and foundations must be essential for not discouraging public administrations from the way to internalization of public social services, which, as is already the case, is our always bet. Because, in order to guarantee the universality of social services and to reach the entire population and throughout the territory, the services must be provided, managed and held by public authorities. You serve as a caregiver for people in a situation of extreme vulnerability, such as people without a home, cannot depend on the fate of the existence of entities in the territory, entities that we do not want in any case to invalidate, because above all they are resolutive of the urgent problem that is caregiver to people without a home, but that ultimately covers a basic social need that the Administration is not covering. Very important: the collection in complaint and judicial proceedings against the aporofobic, racist, patriarchal and xenophobic violence, which is the main factor of violence against people without a home. Let's hope that in principle this law is a gateway to take over the people affected. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , as for example through the Sense Llar Union – and I'm finished, president – that should always be the protagonists in managing the problems that affect them. In short, we make a positive balance of this legal text. We love the whole room, it can't be any other way, to approve this text and start walking. And we will be very attentive to the deployment of this law, which must be discussed with other legal marks in the matter of housing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.210.0	Then, and the name of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.211.0	Thank you, President. And we welcome you again to the entities that have worked on this proposal for law that, finally, we debate today and that poses a part of the problem of sensillarism on the table, a proposal that has been very much worked on. And we, from In Comú Pode, take advantage of the perspective from which we understand this problem, which is the local expression of a global problem that has to do with three main aspects: first, housing – as has already been mentioned –, job insecurity and also foreign law. The lack of suitable housing, the extraction of renders to the most impoverished groups of the population for neoliberal policies, the increasing precariousness of working conditions and, we insist, the foreign law, unfortunately, are factors that leave people in the street. And it still indicates that this trend goes up. And the bill's proposal includes interesting proposals in the first two areas, which are habitating and rendering them, and it also poses manifest and poses on the table key aspects and pending assignments that we have, as can be the violation of the right to control that affect people who are not allowed to believe fixed domicile in certain municipalities of Catalonia, with the consequence of access to services, resources, which this implies. And this law, which has been worked for various entities, the social world and coordinated institutions also for the professor Antoni Milian, seems to us very relevant, since what they claim is to generate a legislative framework that rules the actions and services that the public administrations would have to carry out in order to guarantee the rights of people without law and to eradicate this situation. Eradicating is an important challenge, so good we can do it, and we place them to do it, but it is a challenge that we have no choice but to take as a society. Then, from Comú Pueblo, all the support for this legislative process. And, in this case, it is not a support for empty words, but it gathers all the action that the Barcelona Assembly has done, which has doubled the presumption of sensillarism, but we still need more municipalities to double these resources, and therefore... the importance of allocating them there. For another band – and in relation not to this proposal of the law, but we must see how they fit – we celebrate that it has been made public, a few days ago, the inn in the march of the march of action for the approach of sensellarism and that good part of the actions planted are focused on habitation. We're celebrating that the assumptions are meant to be a game to start working there, but we're aware that these assumptions are not enough, right? And this we do not know from the opposition, but also, of course, the Government knows, but above all the joints know, that, while holding the competitions in this matter, they do not count on sufficient resources nor, until now, with a clear leadership of a Generality that has a Catalan perspective on sensillarism. To the action mark presented we see how the focus has been extended to all categories of residential exclusion. So, let's move on from these divisive thousands that we've heard in the last few interventions to more than sixty thousand people. And that seems positive to us, but then we see that the actions they want to promote focus essentially on the meaning of the street, so we'll have to see how the catal model of care for people who are not at home can make an integral approach that actually helps us move forward. But above all, we remember that there are structural causes and that, therefore, we need to cover work lines in the long term. When we talk about long-term strategies, we're talking about breaking the idea that it's the social services or entities that have to do all the work in relation to meaning. People without home have many rights violated– right to housing, rights of citizenship, nationality..., tickets that allow them to have a decent life project–, and the work of social services is, in any case, to accompany people who see their rights violated, but many times they will not be able to guarantee them. In fact, one thing that has to make us think about this law is that it contemplates the guarantee of rights that are, to most people, that are not meaningless..., or continue, to recognize the rights that any person has already recognized. And it makes us wonder if we're really in the best position, as the administration and the company, to guarantee them so far. So we need to be proactive and put into action so that this is done. That's why we don't think growing up in social services and housing is a dead end if it doesn't connect to housing policies. And it's not a matter of providing habitat to those who have already been left homeless, but of guaranteeing access to everyone. Without access to housing, the Emergence Housing is converted into a very oversized and increasingly difficult area of social services. And, look, because the institutional response to severe residential exclusion has two lines of action. For a band, we can provide housing or accommodation. And, in large ways, housing provides solutions that can become definitive and social services provides solutions that are provisional. And the time to build care responses will take more strength than ever. So it matters, because a person staying in a residential center continues to feel like a person without a home. Without a radical turn in the policies of housing and guarantee of yields that curbs the fall in the extreme poor to which so many people and families face in the own months, and which also passes to modify the guaranteed income of citizenship, as we have repeated and insisted on various occasions, and to be aware of the effects of the foreign law..., that the foreign law takes thousands of people in the street, and therefore also the popular legislative initiative of regularization is also appropriate. Without all this, the social services and the entities will overflow, closing a bleeding with shrapnel. From In Comú We can be convinced– there is empirical evidence that this corroborates – that many people without money, if they count with tickets that can be through guaranteed income, through a universal basic income, would not again climb the street. Because it's a reality that there are people and profiles that need very intense intervention, but there are people who have a clear economic problem. And social protection cannot depend solely on your contributions to social security, and occupation cannot be, for another band, the only way to have social protection. In short, we support this legislative process. We will make our contributions to complement it. And the idea is to see also how this legislative process fits in with the strategy that is currently being devised by the Generality. Many thanks to the entities again for the work. And let's hope that this process can get out of the way. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.212.0	Thank you. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.213.0	Thank you, President. I wanted, first..., I think it has been done, but, from our group, also thank you for the magnificent work that the entities that have promoted this law, and this text, to the driving group, especially because this is the fruit of a work of many years. It is not precisely one of those initiatives that respond to a circumstantial problem. On the contrary, this is precisely one of the problems facing this society, possibly the most permanent and the least we have been able to deal with legislatively in recent years; possibly never, possibly never have we been able to deal with it. At the very least, we will be able to work on a text that, let's say, has the advantage and the benefit of being a text driven by different parliamentary groups, far away, many of them, ideologically: from a liberal vision, as we can give, to far-off and far-off visions on the left, as we have heard both the UPC and the commons, and also the PSC, and possibly there will be other visions, all of them with their nuances, that we hear today. I think a useful law can be obtained, if we propose to do so. And here I want to make a reflection, for, perhaps, the fruit of having been here for a few years, and I think I have learned that many times magnificent texts are produced in this Parliament – others not so much, but some yes – but that they can never..., or that at least they do not have the appropriate tools to be able to implement them. And the list of magnificent laws that can be hung in the museum of perfect laws is possibly unmatched, with which... I hope this is not one of those proposals again lost in time. I think we can do it. From our group, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on one of the problems I think we've already had today, and it's really knowing what sinogarism is, what a homeless person is. I think it is clear to many, but it is not so clear, because there are different degrees and certainly situations and phases prior to the situation of sinogarism that many Catalans have. We have talked about figures close to eighteen thousand, we have figures of more than twenty thousand; the figures of those who are really without a home, on the street, are more than five thousand, according to some entities. Possibly all of this will lead us to reflect, and possibly be one of the first steps we should take, and at least have properly included in the law. The situation in Catalonia, in all of Spain – in fact, in Europe, but, well, I'm going to talk about Catalonia – is very hard, and especially hard for those who are – it has been spoken of the word "invisible" – invisible and invisible, and we could say it exponentially: those who never – never – tell for nothing. In fact, the situation is so terrible that they are not even registered. That is, it is something basic to access any minimum service, any minimum right that a citizen in Catalonia can have. I like to talk many times about who you are – and that's why I think we have to work in that line – fellow citizens. They are not homeless people, they are fellow citizens who do not have access to a constitutional right such as housing. And we, who are obviously great defenders of the Constitution, also believe that some of these rights must be put into effect. And one of them, precisely, is housing. And that framework in which we live guarantees it. Let's work on it. That is one of the problems or one of the situations that we believe we should warn about. Another is to recover in part the excellent experience – and understand me – that involved the response to the situation of homeless people that existed during the pandemic. There is a certain, let's say, initiative, even of public-private collaboration, of hotels that offered rooms, accommodation, homeless people, and other public entities in this case also offered..., I do not like to speak of the word«housing, but rather spaces where I can temporarily offer a roof to those people who did not have it. A good part of all those experiences that have been lost should be able to recover those in this law, as well as initiatives – which have already been talked about and I think I will repeat them – such as the Housing first or Housing led, which are, in the end, formulas for making that transit of inclusion, which must be the other word for me essential throughout this process. The situation of homelessness must be temporary, it must be transit. It's got to be a transit. And this situation is coming from different points of view, from different causes, all very hard ones, which, in addition, have been mentioned some of them here: from situations of extreme poverty, simply, to gender-based violence, to situations, therefore, of people who are in reception centres who have to leave that reception centre. Different places, different views that lead us, precisely, to this situation. We want to reinforce it. And what are we going to base ourselves on? Or what are we going to focus on in this law? Some of those things have been said. I think you don't speak properly... or you don't know how you're going to pay or finance this law. I think they are..., and here it has been said, has been said by Congressman Moreno, and I think he is right: too many responsibilities are being given or given to the municipal world, to the local world. It is good that we legislate, but if we legislate something, we pay for it; that is, if we legislate, that the executive should be responsible for at least a large part of what we legislate. Therefore, this is going to be one of our essential lines during the processing that we are going to defend, as well as the defense of that public-private collaboration. But here, and although it seems strange to our position, I normally believe that we should develop it, but we should also not turn it into a formula of extension of responsibilities by the executive or, in this case, by the Government of the Generalitat. Therefore, it must be the Government of Generalitat that takes care of this. We need to know how to finance it, and make a realistic, enforceable and, please, useful law. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.214.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Titon Laïlla, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Deia Goethe that the happy man is the one who, feeling king or pay, finds his dick at home. I Goethe spoke of the house, of the flat, as a secure, stable, protective place, which for the person is strong, certainly, and allows to build a life worthy and allows to be treated with respect and at the same time to be cared for. Also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognizes in all and every one of its articles a right that in many cases is violated in people living on the street, certainly as a consequence of an action or, better said, a primary inaction, which is on our part, from the whole community, that is precisely the invisibility, the harms with which we treat and suffer people without learning. People who are not, we could say, recognizable, people who are unprotected, who do not participate in community life, who do not have work, who do not have lleure, etcetera, right? And reverse that, as far as possible and I'm very aware of the limitations we have, I think it's the will, but I would also say the obligation, because it's a law that you want to take care of. I can't begin this intervention without giving thanks to the people who are here with us today, among the public, and who are responsible for the fact that today in this Faristol we are talking about sensellarism, which are the Community of Sant Egidi, the Arrels Foundation, the Social Servants of Sant Joan de Deu, the Diocesan Caritas of Barcelona and the Assis Centre d'Accollida. They are referent entities, unfortunately, in the world of social attention and also in the attention to sensellarism. And I say badly because I'm convinced that what they want is that this attention to people without waste, isn't it? In our communities, in our barrels. This law, I said, is a law that speaks of caring and that speaks of life, because, according to the Arrels Foundation, in Catalonia there are six thousand people in a state of nowhere – with ancient data, of 2017 – of whom 2,347 live directly on the street. As you know, when it comes to people who are not at home, a classification is used that divides this situation of senselessness into thirteen categories. And in this read what is meant is to deepen and place the focus above all on the first three, who are the people who live at home, people who spend the night in emergency housing and people who reside in temporary services. As I was saying before, these are facts that must make us reflect and act. We understand that the causes are diverse, that we must be able to detect them and combat them in such a way as to diminish and, obviously, as a big objective, reduce or eliminate these figures, because they are figures, they are numbers..., in cold they are numbers, but after they are seen, they are people, they are families, they are different situations that demand transversal actions and actions that continue over time. Because talking about sensellarism means talking about housing or, more clearly, talking about lack of housing, helping those people who need help, for example, to maintain a logger, as I know the government is already doing. I believe that – if not, the adviser I am correcting – there are almost 140_million euros. But also those who do not have access to the lodger, who do not have access to the habitation, and for whom we also have to work in order to facilitate this worthy habitation, right? But they are... we have to go further, we have to make proposals that are not short-term, punctual or even sector-specific, but we have to go to the scene of the problem, open the perspective and go to measures that touch much more its transversality, because the cause is also varied and it is transversal. Therefore, we need to be able to talk about broad social policies, we need to be able to talk about families, we need to be able to talk about salvation, above all, and basically about mental salvation, but we need to talk about bonds, above all. Because what this law is about is also offering and working on the bonds, because if we want to reverse this situation, what we need to be able to guarantee are certain, we need to be able to be still. If well the causes, as I said, that a person who lives on the street is diverse, there are always causes that make him more vulnerable, such as, for example, women, such as migrant people, such as people with mental disorders. But, focusing on the three points that this law contains, I think I should say that the first thing we have to do is to keep the real data of how many people live on our streets so that we can offer, certainly and in reality..., and knowing also what we have, what resources we have focusing on the people who need this help. And once we have and we can guarantee the bond – for example, from the start, the bond administered with the padro to guarantee social rights, as I said before – so it will also need to deepen and work very precisely from the proximity with the municipal world. I think it's a law that will force all pleas to talk a lot, a lot, and dialogue and make consensus with the municipal world. Because it is precisely from the hands of the municipal world that we can concretly narrow down the need for people who live in every part of the municipalities to live in, understand that the needy and also the answer that can be given, precisely from this proximity, is different, for example, to large cities or other smaller municipalities. And that was pointed out by Congressman Moreno, and I think that is certainly one of the things that we need to focus on this law. So as well as recognizing the entities and knowing the work they do and the work they have to do in a collaborative, cooperative way, and, moreover, precisely because of the knowledge they have of what the role they must have and how they must coordinate this work, then, as necessary as they do. But this doesn't want to be a law of redundancy, a technical law, an administrative law, but it forces us all to walk around and get down to the detail of the day-to-day, because it's a law that also talks, for example, about the gossip, about the delivery service; it talks about the shower, about the food service; but it also talks, for example, about what we do with a person who is not at home when they are given the high, so, about a hospital; or when they pass, right? Because they don't have a right to have a worthy death here either. In fact, the Government is aware of this issue and has recently approved the framework for the approach of sensillarism in Catalonia, from the years 22-25, which I believe must work together with the text resulting from this law and precisely from this nearness. I'd tell the fool that this read what he wants to take care of, what he wants to talk about life. And, finally, I would like to quote in Francesc Torralba, a philosopher who is expert in the world of care, in the world of follow-up above all hospital, but I believe that also in this topic the appointment serves us. He says that taking care of a person is to accompany him to live his process of restructuring, of restoring; but in this process of accompanying the center is the person, not his malaise. So we take care of ourselves and make people visible, all of us. Thank you, President, counselors. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.216.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Maria Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.217.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies... First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the driving entities of this law who today accompany us and profit also to thank them again for their work and involvement in getting here. Today we present this issue to the totality with alternative text to the proposal of the law of transitory and urgent measures in order to face and eradicate sensillarism with the objective of incorporating a new text that refers to the definitive version, and therefore updated of this one. In this new version, we incorporate the additions, modifications and deletions that at the beginning, in the initial version of the entry, do not appear, so that it is a text that is totally consistent with the material object of the initiative and that does not introduce any political change of content by the heads of the parliamentary groups that we present to us. Thus, the consensus objective is to approve this plenary session as a whole, from which we propose this alternative text and which the president orders the publication as a rule of law to continue working on it. I will take these minutes to reaffirm Esquerra Republicana's position before this proposal is presented. Sensellarism is, without doubt, the most extreme form of vulnerability and social exclusion a person can suffer in our society. And, therefore, the objective must not be to manage it, it must be to eradicate it. Sensellarism, as a consequence of the economic and social circumstances that we are living in, has gained more prominence in the political and media agenda of our country. We find ourselves in front of a fact – and not of a new and sporadic phenomenon in time –..., a situation that, unfortunately sometimes, seems to be stuck in our daily lives. And, before this situation, we need to deploy all the legal mechanisms dedicated to ending this difficult problem. This is why we celebrate that on March 29th the Government of the Generalitat approved the framework for action for the approach of Sensellarism in Catalonia from 2022 to 2025, a tool that must allow to build a comprehensive and consensual approach model to give response to the people who find themselves in this situation. We welcome the fact that the Department of Social Rights has nearly EUR 98 million to address sensellarism until 2025, betting on models such as the Housing First or Housing Led, models that we have always defended from the Republican Left, representing two of our clear objectives for this legislature. In short, we would also like to comment that a process involving many agents and experts involved in this study camp, in addition to the data obtained during the vaccination campaign for covid-19, was difficult to complete. The aim of this strategy is also to link sensillarism with the remaining policies of access to housing and, in particular, with preventive policies. And since Parliament, we're working and we're still working, and the interbanks that can get us off the streets of Madrid. From the Parliament, we draw forward laws like the anti-denomination law, offering measures that represent a brave bet and that give the necessary support to those people who are at risk of housing exclusion. Simultaneously, we want to express the importance of continuing to deploy initiatives such as the 360° project, which supports many young majors who find themselves homeless. To provide a decent base for all the people of the country is an obvious and unquestionable duty, which must not be negotiated, and it is the responsibility, in the first instance, of public and social policies. We're working through all the parliamentary tools that we have in mind to legislate. We legislate, we legislate to give a standard guarantee mark of what is untouchable: everyone has a right to a decent habitat, and our political duty is to guarantee it. It has also taken advantage to remember that from the government the pilot plan will be initiated to implement the universal basic income in Catalonia, a plan that has been completed in different countries and that is an individual monetary benefit – for each person–, universal – for all citizens – and unconditional – independent of all conditions and requirements. Well, going to the bottom of the question, from the Republican Left we can conclude that the law of transitory and urgent measures to eradicate sensillarism, rather than being necessary, involves new contextual specificities to meet the people who are patenting this situation. For this reason, from our parliamentary group we consider this law to be an opportunity to work on new forms. And it must be done from a gender perspective, placing special emphasis on the situation in which women find themselves unscathed, which makes them even more fragile and vulnerable, and which usually see submerges in other social problems at the same time. It can give support and also comprehensive attention and support to mental salvation..., in which many people are found who see fit in this situation, focusing on society and combating apophobics in a strong way. All this, bearing in mind, as has already been said, that this law only addresses the first three levels of Ethos classification of sensellarism. Therefore, the rest of the situation will need to be addressed from other perspectives. And, by the end of this term, we have made it clear: clear and clear objectives to tackle with total determination the social emergencies and inequalities that arise and that many times remain latent in our society. We need all the will to change to improve our social policies, which guarantee equal opportunities for everyone. And from the Republican Left we would act with firm compromise: the republic, the way to ensure real social policies and in line with Catalan society, a fair society for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.218.0	Thank you very much. After this defense of the project to the totality by the groups, has the word now, to fix its position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.219.0	Thank you, Madam President. Welcome the entities that are with us today. We share your concern, but not the solution. A few days ago, the social rights counselor gave us a terrible news: 58,930 Catalans live in infra-victims or are users of hostels or live directly on the street. Now I'm gonna give you a really good one. This chamber has in its hand the power to put an end to this situation which affects 59,000 people. One example: let's close this macro-agency of placement of associates, friends and relatives of Junts, Esquerra Republicana and the PSC that are the regional councils. With those 643_million_euros that cost in 2020 we can eradicate this problem with a single pen. I could say this... [[Some applause.]] I could say this and just go back to my place, because you know the reality and the solution, just like us. Look, twenty-six per cent of the population is on the verge of social exclusion; 462,000 Catalan children and adolescents, at risk of extreme poverty; 90,664 people, awaiting social housing; 17,500 elderly, pending a geriatric residence. And now we know that 59,000 Catalans live on the street or live in shelters or infra-holidays, with a great risk of ending up on the street as well. The obvious situation of extreme poverty in Catalonia crushes any possible diversion on the moment at which you, your radical feminist policies, of climate fanaticism or proseparatists, have taken us. What is regrettable is that, in view of this disheartening panorama, they can only present an ideological octavilla as a social panacea that ends up exploiting in one of its many false progressive catharsis. Only here, Socialists, there is no purifying effect that you seek in the tragedy that accompanies people living without a roof. And the solution does not even approach this law, which is only a patch for a clear purpose to silence the consequences of its absence of social policies, seal of this house, that is, of the different separatist and leftist governments that have ruled. The path that marks this proposal is not aimed at preventing the circumstances that lead a person to live on the street, not even to alleviate them. It is aimed at providing Catalan society with a false sense of cleanliness of the fatal public policies that various government groups have been establishing in Catalonia for decades, both separatist and PSC. This initiative does not come to improve the conditions of homeless people, but to consolidate a modus vivendi, a model that nobody deserves and that you seek to normalize. Since it cannot be otherwise, we must defend that all these people who are in a state of vulnerability be helped, and even more so if they live on the street, but in no way legislate by becoming the norm of synhogarism, which should be an exception and not a precept. Policies to end the complicated situation of these people must be geared towards prevention and ending their complicated situation. It is not perpetuating a pattern that is undoubtedly harmful to these people. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Mr. Cid. [[David Cid said, "You're welcome.]] When I can... thank you. It is harmful to these people, but it is also quite harmful to society as a whole. The truth is, not everything can be regulated. And to regulate a reality that should not exist, and that in the worst case scenario should be exceptional, leads to the government's misunderstanding of the problem and the complete abandonment of these Catalans. The articulated only speaks of the classical progressive ship, the tired and ridiculous gender perspective, when, for example, the eighty_y_five_per_cent of the homeless people living in the streets of Barcelona are men, according to the Arrels Foundation. Or to create a register of entities and organizations accredited by the Generalitat; i.e., more chiringuitos regulated, supervised and controlled by the Government where to place their friends and friends – the few left to place, of course. Not to mention all those articles that talk about giving indefinite continuity to aid in order to perpetuate the problem. The unfortunate thing about this whole law is that there is not a single proposal for prevention. Not a single one, Socialist gentlemen. I'll finish like I started. We all know the solution, just like you. Build social housing for these people; close TV3, the county councils, the Foreign Action Council, and eliminate all these subsidies to separatist entities with zero social return. You know the solution just like us, only that we want to carry it out and you don't. They promote work, create jobs, improve access to addiction rehabilitation centres, invest in the well-being of Catalan society, and leave almsy laws of progressive ideology. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.220.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to vote on the whole question with alternative text. The vote begins. The result of the vote is 118 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 2 people who do not vote. As the message to the totality with alternative text has been approved, as set out in Article 116.7 of the Rules, the publication of this alternative articulated text is ordered and will be forwarded to the corresponding committee. This proposal of law cannot be objected to, therefore, already of utterances to the totality. [[Interview with the Government on health personnel]] [[300-00148/13]] Let's go to the next item on the agenda, which is the eighth item, the question to the government about health personnel. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, the deputy Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.221.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor Argimon, we have our health system at the ICU, at least that's how we see it from the CUP. We have a difficult problem, going from the moon, in one of the most essential services. We can say that it's the most essential we have, because when we talk about sanitation, we're talking about the life of the people. And, therefore, when we have a public health system that is deeply, seriously badly, that we are talking about is that the well-being of the people, the life of our people, therefore, is certainly dangerous. I'm telling you, you're on the far side of this problem, because, for us, the original sin we find in the public-private concert model, and you know it because I've already commented on it a lot of times. It's a model that's designed and conceived to promote lust at the cost of salvation or, what's worse, to promote lust at the cost of malalty. And a model that, moreover, allows, therefore, that there is classism between the conjunction of the people. Thus, we have a system in which we can guarantee that the totality of public resources that we dedicate to it will be used exclusively, in full, to take care of the welfare of the population; a system that is hurt by the detail that began the last tripartite year and found its rise from the hand of the mercenary of the health care employer, Mr. Boi Ruiz, and a system that is totally stifled by the brutality of a pandemic that already lasts more than two years. And the worst part, without any doubt, was brought by the primary attention, which became a charity attention; a primary attention that we can say is practically dismantled. We don't just call it the UPC; users say it, professionals say it and even a whole body like, for example, Amnesty International. The effects of this deterioration of our public health system are making real strides between the conjunction of the population, and especially between that most vulnerable population. You know that, they're pulling out of the cage and resulting in loss of face visits, we've lost..., or reduced the diagnostics of severe maladies, reduced the follow-up of chronic maladies, with everything that this entails. But we also need to talk about a remarkable increase in waiting lists, both for surgical interventions and diagnostic tests or visits to specialists. We need to talk about the difficulty of accessing primary care: hanging out at the gates of the CAPs; difficulties in being attached to our midwife or nurse of reference and doing so face-to-face; loss of services and specialists or specialists, forcing users, sometimes, to move to other municipalities, with what this entails of iniquity for people who do not have a car – for example, we are talking about a large population, which is very negatively affected by this. And, in fact, we in the Health Commission are continually adopting unanimous agreements on the shortcomings that can be solved from the territorial security plans, and the companies and companies that are part of the Health Commission know perfectly well. What does all this have to do with the whole town? A growth of the mutuals. If in 2010 a twenty-i-five percent of the population of Catalonia had contracted the service of a mutual, now, with the latest data that we consist of, we went to about thirty-two percent on the past 2021. And that means more triple waiting lists: who goes with the book of the CatSalut, who goes with the book of the mutual or who has paid directly from his pocket – and that also happens. And it gives a situation as perverse as it is that there is a swift majority to attend to users depending on whether they pay directly or by mutual means, and sometimes this happens in the same health centre, financed or paid with public money, and even if they are attached to the same professions, which, as I say, is an absolute perversion to us. And, beyond this user's patience, what do we find? So more patiently, but on the part of professional weeds, cremated and totally exhausted, also especially primary care, but practically the whole system. Some professionals who, after two years of pandemic, after having taken care of all of us practically unprotected – there have remained the images that the international community or the international press held by the health personnel of the Spanish state of kamikazes –..., therefore, after all this, the half of the Catalan health personnel is at risk of suffering a mental health problem, according to Galatea. The health professionals accumulate levels of physical and mental discomfort—extremely, anxiously, overworked, physically exhausted... So much so that one of these health professionals has planned to leave the profession. One of the five people who took care of us, whom we applauded, whom we lauded, whom we all liked in an election campaign, today he wants to leave his job, or stand up to, because he can't do it anymore. And there are not only weeds, cremations and exhaustions, but they must also deal with anger, impotence, the discomfort of the people, of the users, who channel towards them, to whom they have before, all this discomfort, and not channel to the true responsible, who are protected by the walls of their miscarriages. This explains the protests of the workers of the hospitals of the Siscat, the recent protests, but also the protests that we have seen at the length of the past year by the infirmary collection, the medical collection, by the MIR, by the wave of 061, and even so we saw, a little more than a year ago, a vague history of all the workers of the field of salvation. In this sense, we want to highlight the importance of all the staff working at the health centres, because all the functions and tasks are closed because the system works, from where it operates to those who take us to the door of the hospital in ambulance, who get us to the table or who clean the facilities to ensure that there is no infection, but today we want to focus on the shortcomings and hardships that health personnel accumulate and the need to bring about short-term and medium-term solutions; let us resolve that they need to be materialized and that they need to be tangible. What are we reporting? We complain, we collect the complaints that these professionals are constantly transferring to us. Exceeding bureaucracy. Much of the energies of professionals are devoted to bureaucratic tasks and tasks that are detrimental to patient care. You yourself lamented a couple of years ago that one of the four visits to the CAP was to do bureaucratic management, and that they did not approach the collection, therefore, of doctors or nurses. Let's talk about very high rates. As a result of the lack of professionals, what we have is a staff that has to face up to times higher, and on occasions the population of reference expands without only increasing the staff, but even it is reduced, because it is not covered by the basses, etc. To give an example of the barbarity we have: in the case of the infirmary collection, we are very far from the 9.5 professionals per thousand inhabitants of the European media; we have only six per thousand inhabitants. Wages. They do not only perceive much remuneration under what they perceive to other European countries, but also that it was 'lshi' who cut the zinc_per_cent and did not want to return. Ishi did not want to – because it is a question of political will – return. Or we can talk about PODs, which, according to us, should not exist, and which in many cases do not pay allegant presuppostarial balances, which, in change, are never an obstacle to paying the large fees of the addresses. We're talking about job insecurity. We have a healthcare staff double-crossing, and, at the same time, this staff many times, so they have precarious, temporary or part-time contracts. The data we have tells us that in the ICS the contractual instability affects two thirds of the staff: professional contracted for weeks, days or even hours, without right to vacation or regular rest. Compared cranes depending on the provider for which they develop the functions: professionals who eventually carry out the same tasks and who have significantly different conditions, therefore simply because they work for different providers. And the worst is about to come, because we lack professionals. A few months ago, you calculated that Catalonia was missing between eight thousand and two thousand professional infirmaries. The College of Nurses and Nurses of Barcelona doubles the xifra, and speaks of eleven thousand and 25,000 nurses and nurses, who are missing. Metges de Catalunya talks about six-cents and eight-cents of headphones like xifra to quantify the meths that we lack from family medicine. And why do we miss them? And here's the key to the question. On one side, for an unjustifiable lack of planning, which, in addition, will make it worse, because in five years, according to the College of Metges, will retire twenty_per_cent of teachers in action and will not have enough to fill it, which is still more dramatic in the rural world, where the lack of teachers and primary helpers can leave the centers of salvation totally funded – and then surprise us of the depopulation in the rural areas of the country. But then we are not professional because of the very poor working conditions, because of the growing precariousness of the work that we have detailed – which I have detailed – just asking ourselves some examples, because they can put much more, and that makes these workers, that our workers, have to leave in order to be able to exercise in conditions worthy of their profession, or that it is directly planted to fold or to fold because they can no longer. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.222.0	Then, you have the word Salut advisor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.223.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Congresswoman Estrada, very late. Miri, one of the things I do recognize, right? And what I like, is that the argument of the mutuals, that I put it here, in this same pharystoll, I put it precisely to warn that we have a public health system that, either we invest in it, or we have a problem. Because this increase from twenty-five to thirty-two is not produced in six months, it is produced in the last five years. And if we continue in this situation, we can find ourselves with a dual public health system, which I have also put here above the table, and in some interview, which I also, therefore, appreciate..., well, "thank you in the sense – we already understand – that you have also served it, and your own MP Escarp also; in the sense that, somehow, at least what is the danger that we share it. We share it, and therefore we must also begin to lay folded solutions. There are some things, anyway, that I would like to comment here. The first of all is that the better working conditions of professionals is a priority of the Health Department, but not only of the Health Department, but of the Government. And I would like here, therefore, to take the words of the President of the Generality during the past general policy debate, when they tell us..., in other words, the pro-President said: "Shut up more resources for the health system. Resources are needed to continue facing the pandemic, to recover the activity of attention to other diseases, to cope with technological obsolescence, to attend to mental health, emotional well-being, and also to improve the working conditions of professionals. You have commented on some things that are also clearly. That is to say, one of the other problems, the second structural problem that our health has... The first one I have said, this chronic underfunding, that it doesn't see from scratch, it doesn't see from now on, it goes many years back; that it gets worse with the flaps, yes, the flaps that start the year 2010, let's remember it: that five_per_cent that is the flap of the wages of the professionals, therefore, during the tripartite government. Because we have to remember that this was a measure of President Zapatero, but we also have to remember that we, in Catalonia..., the measure of President Zapatero only affected what it is that you would work directly – so the staff of the ICS – but as most of our staff – we speak of the Hospital Clínic, or of Sant Pau, or of public hospitals – is labor, which was made a decree. A decree on which it is ugly was to reduce the counter-performance, which is paid for the counter-performance to the public entities, to the entities of the Siscat, because it has repercussions on the salaries of the professionals. That is to say, a decree signed by Esquerra Republicana, which sign the PSC and which sign common... – forgive it –, Initiative – excuse it, did not want... But from this point of view, this is the first point of inflection, which still makes much more of this, certainly, and, after all, all these years of presuppositionary insufficiency. And from here on out, the second structural problem you have also mentioned, that of health demography, for a lack of planning that doesn't see from now on, that goes a long way. You cited a study of the Metges College. This study of the College of Metges is from the year 2010. If you recover some of the headlines of the year 2010 – I remember El País or the most specialized press –..., they speak precisely of the year 2025, and we have to put it now. And health demography..., basically it's with two great professions: the nursing profession, which is certain that I said that xifra, and it's true what the nursing college says, because I'm here– and I recognize that it was my mistake– I calculated the public part, and I'm a consultant on the public part and on the private part, and, therefore, also... – private and resident –, not on the advice of the counselor, but there's a nurse in the residences... Obviously, this xifra that gives the nursing colleges, the college council, is more accurate; but of health professionals, too. But there is one thing that is not exactly certain, or that I think there have been given to beat it, that is the fact that people are leaving to alienate it, especially in medicine. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, Working conditions aren't the best, certainly, but they don't go abroad. And the lack of professionals... the possible solutions are multifactorial. One of them can be more personal, more people. I mentioned it this morning. Certainly. Two: increase the offer of post-graduate training. At these moments we are offering everything that is accredited, everything that we have accredited is offered. Third element: there is a clear lack of professionals, or, to put it some way... we could talk more about a clear vocation to family medicine. And prestige is something that's necessary; it's necessary, because it's the palar palar of our health care system. And in this sense I also referred this morning to an initiative, which can be, if you want, insufficient – I don't say no – which can be partial – I don't say no – but that it is a first way: to make positive discrimination towards family medicine – so, not to the residence of family medicine – encouraging those who study family medicine, come from one's coming; also discriminating in a very different way the metropolitan part of the great metropolis of Barcelona from the most extended points of our geography. I think this is also a direction..., to say: "Look, family medicine is very important. Two: it's so important to work here with Terres de l'Ebre or with Alt Pirineu or with..., where we come from. They're important probate elements. We've also talked here about the effort the professionals are making, and we have to thank him – and we have to thank him. And I also say one thing: the professionals have taken care of us from the pandemic. We also need to give you this vote of confidence for this recovery now, and I'm talking about the primary care professionals now too. I, therefore, also... You mentioned another element that I'm worried about, and I'm very worried about, that's... you didn't say "rabbit, didn't you? Sometimes, more than angry, it's this discomfort; he said the word... but I think it's more the discomfort the people have, that we all have, and that they also have the health professionals. And therefore, we also have to take care of them – we also have to take care of them. And I'm the first one to take care of them, I know; but all, in principle, society together, we have to take care of them. And this is an element, too, that we must bear in mind. I also said some elements like mental salvation. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And from this point of view, you quoted Galatea's study. And that's why we're also starting, apart from the fact that every institution is also giving this attention to mental health in its own personal..., also with the emotional welfare referents that we've incorporated into the primary care teams, they also work with the people of the teams. Because there's this discomfort, clearly. And we also have to thank the people... and personally and professionally the people of primary care, who at the time... you were talking about those diagnostics that went missing. These diagnostics are recovering. They're recovering. And the props... well, there's the prop that's been done since the ICS and that's been published, where we're recovering the levels of the 19th. Surely it will still be warmer, because what we will find now, what we find now is that those diagnostics, for example, of cancer, that will appear and that we will recover, will surely be in a stay – or without it, I say it now – higher than we would have found if we hadn't had two years of pandemic. But we can't erase this pandemic, we can't erase it. It has passed, and we will have to manage all the effects of this pandemic in our own time. He also commented on elements such as, for example, primary care. We're trying to reinforce and we're reinforcing primary care. It's about the bureaucracy. Home, we have incorporated 2,500 professionals in the administrative field who have made covid referents, who have made school referents, with an absolute success. And we have already incorporated them as a template, in the sense of, for example, being able to help all that is the deburocracy of some of those jobs that can be done infirmary – bureaucratic – and that does not necessarily need to be done infirmary, or that does medicine and does not need to be done medicine, because precisely the doctors and midwives are dedicated to doing more than doctors and midwives, and the nurses and nurses, more infirmary, and, therefore, to be able to work folds. And we're also reinforcing it with emotional welfare references. We haven't put 322 in practically four_months that we're wearing. Besides, he's already starting to donate his fruits. And we've put in more than seventy nutritionists. Because what we're doing in primary care is also giving a fall: we're deeper into what is promoting salvation, what is preventing disease, because this is also an important part of primary care. We must remember that it is primary and community care. And, therefore, from this point of view, we are reinforcing these seedlings, and, from the second semester onwards, we will also incorporate physiotherapists into the teams precisely in the same window, in the face of prevention and in the face of promotion of salvation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.224.0	Then, in the turn of the line, the deputy Laia Estrada has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.225.0	Thank you, President. Aside from the lacks and hardships that we have, of course, an underfunded sanitation. That's not what we're asking. But, in part, it is – and we say so, without any complex – for a clear and real fiscal policy, despite the fact that there are those who have agreed to deny it, but also, as I said earlier, it is a consequence of a bad management of the resources of which has always been almost one of the main presuppositional parties of the Generality. Public money, from our point of view, is greatly facilitated, therefore, by this model of public-private concertation that makes us have a health system every time more squared away, simply because all these facets of entrepreneurs, consorts or foundations to the emperor of the commercial law can make the greatest profit. And, therefore, this also has to be denounced. Or at least we think we can't report the tax authorities and now we can't report that there's also a big part of infra-financing because we don't have a proper tax on where all this money is going to stop. For us... we know they're developing a series of measures, but they're clearly insufficient, and, more than that, they don't go to the bottom of the problem or solve it. And there are all the protests that we see from these professionals. We think that the problem is that we have a fundamental lack of staff, and if we are not able to reverse the lack of planning and reverse the bad working conditions, we will not solve it. Are they willing? Is this a priority of his government? Demonstrate it. Demonstrate it. For now, twenty-five per cent of primary attention is not a reality – it is not a reality. The increase in presupposition which they have allocated to primary care has also not stopped to increase the seedlings of primary care teams. You can put nutritionists in it. So you can put in these psychologists that you can't practice, but we're not talking about increasing care staff: we need more doctors and we need more nurses. When we talk about these expansions of seedlings, of professional care to reduce rates and cover trips and holidays..., we denounce that the new incorporation of these new professional profiles is not solving this problem. And, in this sense, that's serious, because whoever gets lost is the whole town, but also all the professionals, who can't with the overload of work that they're accumulating. When we talk about better pay..., so do it, make them recover the five_per_cent spread; eliminate the DPOs or as at least they don't make them valueable, make them so that they increase the total remuneration. When they talk about improving working conditions and this is a priority..., stabilising the group of professionals, putting a solution to precarious contract in the form of partial, temporary or eventual contracts – and we remind them that we have on the table a resolution proposal to stabilize the group of public workers. They reduce working hours and make it easier for these professionals to reconcile with their family lives, or at least they don't have the obligation to work more hours than the rest of public workers, and at least they respect their breaks. Equiparin the working conditions of the different workers. For us the solution is easy: to eliminate this system of public-private concertation, that we are all under the same umbrella, that would be the Catalan Institute of Health. If they don't want to do this, if they want to continue, let there be who's lucri at the cost of public health, as the least they equip the working conditions, a single suitable for the group of professionals. And if they do not want to do so, as at least, as at the very least, they allow the workers of the Siscat network to negotiate directly with the Cat Salut and not with health-care employers, who abuse and impose extreme conditions of flexibility that force, practically, to perform foreign hours, etc. Ensure that professionals can afford the time they need to care for their patients. Let's get this whole bureaucracy back on track, which is a total excess of work that doesn't translate into better care. Look, the situation is hard. There's plenty of promises and words to take the wind away from them. I do not know what they will vote for the motion that came from this inquiry, but what is clear is that we need to reverse this situation. The problem is that we don't have a lot of confidence that they do. And, unfortunately, we have to hope that it is the people, the hands of the workers and the hands of the users... who start, who start a sustained and powerful mobilization to ensure that the health we have is the health we need, that we deserve and that we all have it, because, if not, then... if they give us the health, there goes our life, and we have said it many times. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.226.0	I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.227.0	President... Mrs Estrada, you spoke about the espoli, the tax espoli. Certainly, with the resources that are generated in Catalonia we could have a presupposition today, now, now, today, after the solidarity that is to be held with everyone and with all the territories, about 15,500_million, is to say, more or less, about 3,000_million or 2,500_million more than we would be spending on. And that's true. Second element: public management. Look, the financing of sanitation is public, 100_per_cent public. We pay it through taxes. And we go to any centre from our own, from our own, from our own health-care centre. And this, clearly, is an element that, if we look – and this happens here in Catalonia and it happens in Spain –..., if we look at any other European country, I can assure you that the levels of access, that the levels of what is a health portfolio, of what is also a co-sponsorship – practically we only have a co-sponsorship in pharmacy, which we also have practically half a million people with a free pharmacy –..., you have no point of comparison with Europe, too. And that's something we need to preserve. Certainly, we must preserve it, and we must strengthen it. Co-payment. By the way, one of the things we brought here, we brought in Constellera Cervera and I myself... a decree of the law, and it's precisely to eliminate a co-payment. Therefore, listen, public cent_per_cent. When we talk about a consortium we have to remember that a consortium, normally..., no, without the "normally – forgives – they are two public institutions – of public institutions –: normally, an assembly and the Generality, or, in some cases, together, university and the Generality, the university and the Generality. Thus, one hundred_per_cent of the population. One hundred per cent of the population, when we speak of a consortium. Taxation. All entities are subject to taxation. Totes. Totes. And sometimes we have the wrong idea about the ICS. I worked at the ICS. Wrong in the sense that there are more controls. No, you don't have a tax check before and after. We have the post; the same – the same. Twenty-five_percent of' p. I do invite, and I sincerely say, the Health Commission to work what we understand for the twenty-five per cent. What do we mean? And that's important. Sometime we talked to Congressman Cid about this, in the sense of working what we want to say. I mean, what do we put in the denominator? The 11,200-million we've got in the budget? What do we put in it? And that's important, because I sure as hell shouldn't have to go there. I am talking now about the denominator, so that we can actually compare what we spend or what we intend, more well said, or what we invest in hospitals and what we invest in primary care. It's only convenient. Look, there are two clear realities in Catalonia, which is the Siscat, for a song, which includes the ICS, but then we have..., which is ICS has some elements, because it is a staff statutari and we have what is being a « table agreement, and being a public enterprise is convenient..., and then we have entities that have been convenient for a long time, a long time, long before there are transfers. We're talking about Sant Pau, the Sea or the Clinic. And then there's the Siscat. I, as a counselor, one of the things that I will work for is because there is an agreement, first, union, with the social part, and, at a time, that the unions also agree, always with the nuances that exist in each of the working rules, in some similar conditions. Because many times it is said: "Listen, the conditions of the ICS are better. Or sometimes: "The conditions of the Siscat are better. Depends on what we're looking at. So, what do you have, from this point of view, not so much a unique convenience as a homogeneous convenience. There's also a hundred per cent of it. And I can assure you that this government will work and work for a quality public health, a strong public health. And, listen, what I'm working for is, precisely, for a premise every time more consolidated so that I can revert to all of the city. Because we have said this since the first day: investing in salvation is also investing in reversing inequalities, because we redistribute income, as does Education, as does Social Rights. We're redistributing rent. And, therefore, we have this very much present and we have this very clearly. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.228.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about mobility policies in the context of crisis]] [[300-00145/13]] Let us move on to the new item on the agenda, the question to the Government on policies of mobility in a context of crisis, presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. He has the word, to give him the presentation, Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.229.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, vice president. Well, they must agree with me that we are in the middle of a huge energy crisis, of brutal dimensions, and that we can also address it from the Government of the Generality. Mobility is an essential part, and we can't look at another band. And that's why, with this question and with the arguments that I will try to degenerate, so, counselor, I basically ask you a question, which is what the Government of the Generality intends to do in terms of mobility policies to combat this crisis. It is already advanced that for us the key is in public transport, and not to put pieces in it or expand the capacity of private transport systems. And that's why we're asking, more concretely, if they're going to push some urgency measure in the current environment to promote the use of public transport, and – more importantly still – if they have any plan to structurally transform the mobility of this country into a key to environmental sustainability, economic sustainability and social sustainability. Well, I'm just trying to argue why we think the key is in public transportation. First of all, it is clear that the one that has blown all the alarms these last weeks has been the rise in the price of fuel from the invasion of Ukraine. And, before that, they call emergency measures especially directed to the most affected sector, which is the transport sector. Now, we all know that we are in a situation of oversupply of fossil fuels caused by peak oil, and not just by war in Ukraine, and in this context the rise in prices is inevitable. Therefore, other structural solutions, of foundations, of model. We must continue to insist on our paths, because, if we continue in this model of transport of private vehicle, which is the most dependent on fossil fuels and which, moreover, works in essentially individual key and serves only those who can afford it, for us what we do is to make a hard mistake. So, first of all, the fuel price crisis. But according to the element: Climate Emergency. We met this week the sixth report of the United Nations IPCC, where it is assumed that the policies of the next three years are decisive if we want to achieve emission reduction targets by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. Transport is responsible for approximately thirty per cent of the emissions of greenhouse gases, and we know that in Catalonia the vast majority of transport is produced by private vehicles. It is obvious that this is where we have the epithet of the problem, and this is where we can act urgently. Let us not use, counselor, the current crisis as an excuse not to make dues pending in this matter. And the third element he wanted to place: the effects of mobility on salvation. A little more than a year ago, a study led by the Barcelona Institute for Global Health was published, in which it was estimated for the first time the mortality rate attributable to the contamination of the area. Barcelona's metropolitan area is Europe's sisena for which it does at the levels of nitrogen dioxide contamination, which is one of the main contaminants, as you know, generated by the traffic round. We are, in the metropolitan area, at 38.9 micrograms per cubic metre, when the WHO recommendation is two micrograms per cubic metre – that is, we almost quadruple the WHO recommendation. The same study, moreover, determined that in the metropolitan area of Barcelona the atmospheric contamination is causing 3,769 deaths in the year that could be avoided. Do you know what the mortality of traffic accidents is in the metropolitan area of Barcelona? Sixty-seven died in the year. Sixty-seven deaths in the year from traffic accidents, 3,769 from atmospheric contamination. I think the ciphers speak for themselves. Therefore, crisis of prices, climate emergence and effects of mobility on health. It's here where we are, and it's from here on out of where we think we can think about the answers. But not only that: we got out of a pandemic and a few months ago they released a good part of the country's tolls, two elements that we believe are not minor. With the pandemic we believe that we should have after it is possible to do the same move less, and this should have led us to bet decisively on teletreball. On the contrary, we seem to have returned to the same levels of mobility in private vehicles as we were before the pandemic, and, in change, we have lost twenty per cent of public transport users. So something's not going well. And I'm telling you this because I think we're running the risk of losing a golden opportunity to speed up background changes in citizen mobility. If not now, when can we move forward in transferring car passengers to public transport? But, because of this step, I want to accompany you with public policies and investments that make it possible. If we don't, we'll be stuck in the vicious circle where we are now, where we're setting up decisions so that they don't touch now or because we don't have a public transport system like lime yet, and sometimes we don't push the investments that are needed and that deserve public transport so that we don't have finance, that we could come from some of these decisions that we didn't dare to make. We need courage, counselor, and bets you decide. In the plan of measures to deal with the effects of the war in Ukraine which the Government approved and presented yesterday, its department proposed, in the matter of mobility, basically, two questions– and correcting'my mistake' –: the delivery of integrated titles for the gathering device and, of course, to demand from the State an economic fund to help the sector of the transport of passengers. We believe that this is little, that it is insufficient. That you have at your fingertips digital policies and mobility policies, and what we say is that you take advantage of it. And we would expect from you policies aimed, for example, at reducing the need for forced mobility, fixing itself as objective the increase of the taxes of self-containing. You said it yourself this morning, that connectivity is essential, but it's not... digital connectivity, which is essential for this purpose, but that's not enough. It also calls for specific measures to promote public transport, especially outside the metropolitan area, and it also sets itself as the objective of reducing cars to our cities. We just don't see anything in his department, we just think we're losing opportunities on forced marches. The T-Mobility nyap is not the most glaring example. How can it be that it costs so much to deploy a just and integrated tariff system for the country's conjunction at this time? In any case, we want to be constructive and we want to make some proposals, short-term and urgent proposals for the moment, but also structural proposals that respond to the different dimensions of the crises that I mentioned earlier; proposals that at the same time want them to be just from a social, environmental and territorial point of view, because there are great inequalities so much in which causes atmospheric contamination and climate change as in which it suffers, and public policies cannot reproduce these inequalities. Last year, large electrical companies increased their benefits by 226_per_cent: Repsol, Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy closed 2021 with a net benefit of 11,000_million euros. Meanwhile, the bill for the light, as you know, and the price of electricity has not stopped growing. Look, a year ago, March month of last year, the average price of the megawatt/hour was forty-five euros, and this same month of March, one year later, was a peak of 545 euros per megawatt/hour of the average daily price. This is multiplying by twelve the price respects a year ago. Honestly, it's a shame. We welcome, in this sense, that the Government has approved the increase of thirty-three per cent in the tax on the production of electrical energy that we have proposed from In Comú Can, even though, if it only affects nuclear power, we believe that it is clearly insufficient, and we would ask it if it can be clarified, whether that is it or not. And in any case, we believe that allocating the additional resources of this tax to cover what will no longer be charged with the non-application of CO2 tax is cheating on the lonely. That's why we give it, we ask it to dedicate these resources to lowering fifty_per_cent for three years of the cost of the T-usual title, the generalised rebate..., three_months– I forgive –; the generalised rebate – they could also do, if they apply the tax–..., the generalised rebate, I said, of fifty_per_cent of the metro prices, buses, railways and Renfe to the entire ATM cost to the Generalitat 14,5_million euros per month. Use the resources of this tax he was commenting on to do so, and don't tell us there's no money. This would be a measure of clear social and environmental justice. We think this is a key conjunctural measure. There are other countries – for example, Germany. It would encourage the use of public transport, reduce the weight of the car, and, therefore, allow this change. And it benefits the population as a whole, because public transport benefits everyone, while the private vehicle, as you know, does not benefit everyone, not only because not everyone can have a car, but..., in fact, because the half of the population does not have a car. Okay. We are aware that this should be a temporary measure, that much less solves the problem. And that is why we also want to set up a whole series of structural and substantive measures to which I will refer in the second part of the intervention. But I would like to put forward four points, in order to say something: to ensure the deployment of the country's low-emission zone, to deploy public transport financing mechanisms, to prioritize rail investment from the Generality and to promote a new model of collective transport management across the country. In any case, in the second part of the intervention, I will be presenting these structural proposals to you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.230.0	Subsequently, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.231.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, it's hard to look at you, here at the side... ; I'll try to make an effort. Anyway, good afternoon to all the deputies and deputies. I often say that this is a country... a heterogeneous country. It is a country, in other words, that must conjugate areas with a great density of population and areas with..., very scattered or few villages. And this implies that, obviously, the policies that we need to push, already following digital, urbanistic environments..., also, obviously, in which today we are dealing, the field of mobility, therefore, must be unequivocally thought according to the specific needs that each territory has and that we cannot apply a recipe of coffee to everyone. I say this because sometimes I get the feeling that when I hear you talking about concrete policies, you always think a lot about the metropolitan area, huh? , and we also, obviously, have affects in this sense in the field of mobility throughout the country. I'm saying that because he didn't make too many references. In this sense, when we think about the field of mobility... or when we think about any policy today, I think, we always have two very important vectors present. One is the vector, obviously, of the struggle against climate change; I think that here you must agree that any policy must bring about a green policy. And second, I think that, clearly, everything that makes reference to the digital transformation that implies that policy, and therefore how we use digitalization to implement that policy. And that has to be incorporated into any policy. In the field of mobility, obviously, when we talk about sustainability, right? , we must also think of two variants: one, obviously, which makes reference, therefore, to how we decarbonize, how we fight, precisely, to make this country more environmentally sustainable, but we must also think about economic sustainability. Any measure we propose, I believe that, if it is to be realistic and can be applied, it must bring forward a realistic and achievable financing proposal. And, therefore, and starting here, it is obvious that with an inquiry that is specifically entitled, therefore, policies of mobility in the context of crisis, unequivocally, these two variables must be contemplated. I believe that decarbonization has an easy-to-implement solution in the general framework – and it would be clear that there is a clear and sincere bet; I know that you have it, but I do not know if the government in which you participate in Madrid has it so clearly – that it is the integral rollover. I say this because rolling is what generates us many of these problems today, of many people who have to take the vehicle; not because of a problem of the cost of the ticket, but because of a problem that you have neither the possibility of being able to come in public transport to the metropolitan area, in this case, and in concrete to the city of Barcelona. And, therefore, a good rolling policy would help us in this objective, obviously, to improve the decarbonization of the country and also to improve the economic situation of families, that either because of lack of access or because obviously the cost that it means from the perspective of taking the car is much higher than that of taking public transport. Therefore, here they are asked that, in this context, they make every effort to convince the Government of the State, because this transfer is a reality as soon as possible. While that doesn't happen, obviously, we don't have to be quiet and we won't. At these times, we are focusing on increasing frequencies of different public transport lines – everything, where the Generality has been able to do so – and, in our deployment, you serve the same digitization of these, and we are doing so to the detriment of the private vehicle and, therefore, for a collective and sufficient transport throughout the territory, I insist, not only for the metropolitan area. In concrete terms, you also told me about the measures related to the crisis we are experiencing, the crisis in Ukraine. I assume that it is in the current state that the government last Tuesday presented a whole series of specific reports in the field and in the matter of donating, say, so I support, in this sense, both economic and social, the situation that is arising as a consequence of the crisis in Ukraine in our country. And, in concrete terms, my department carried a few. I won't read you the whole set of measures, but I'll tell you some, because you just mentioned one, huh? , which was the reference, in this case, to the delivery of integrated titles for refugees, which is true that we have made a cessation and a donation, say, of free titles to these people. But obviously, this department has also made a complaint to the State to ask for help in the transport sector, in this case in its conjunction. I myself sent a letter... well, my department sent a letter to the ministry claiming these measures long before, huh? , that the State has taken them. Or, for example, also – it hasn't made a reference and it's no less important, huh? I already know that it is not transport of passengers, but it is transport in the field of fishing and, therefore, a sector that is also important for our country – therefore, with economic measures to support the fishing sector, in this case for which it does harbour taxes of occupation, it does not apply repercussions coefficients in the rate of sub-administrations, the display of conditions in agreements for docking at ports. I mean, the government's been making some decisions in this sense. As we have also made an advance of beasts to public transport operators, in this case, to help in this purpose. And what we have not seen, in change, in this sense, is, for what it does in the case of the State – and here, therefore, to make it clear – despite the help that has been done for the transport sector of contemplated travellers to the royal decree, the department, in this case the Mitma – and this is an opinion shared by many autonomous communities–..., it has not recovered at these times yet the occupation of public transport as a consequence of covid-19, and therefore... we are already coming from a deficit in this sense, has it not? , which affects the public transport sector throughout the country. So, we haven't recovered yet, huh? , of the covid-19 for which it does public transport, and, in change, the measures that come to us now do not contemplate any help in the case of the costs, due to the increase in the cost of electricity, and which affects certain..., buses, metros, railways, or also, in this case, well, obviously, to TMB. Therefore, we believe that here the State can do much more, with the funds that we could say, right? , as a consequence of the crisis in Ukraine, in helping and supporting public transport policies. And, in this sense, the one that does not go, therefore – and here the place, its group –..., you have made a proposal, which was publicly launched a few days ago, relative to fifty_per_cent, right? , to lower, in this case, the T-usual for three_months. The first thing I would like to ask you is whether this proposal is agreed in the Barcelona Assembly, or is only a proposal that makes, in this case, the Mayor. Because I asked, in this case, who has the responsibility for mobility at the Barcelona Assembly, and it seems to me that it is not a proposal..., if not, they did not know it. They're going to taste for the press, as I do, which I don't think should be done that way. I think that these kinds of proposals in which it is launched, therefore, a policy and does not follow the path at the end... yes, yes, we are very brave, but, finally, I think that also when we talk about bravery we also talk about putting the rooms there; that is also brave, huh? And, therefore, let us hope that this fund that you propose to lower of fifty_per_cent of the T-usual to Barcelona, therefore, to the metropolitan area brings what that means. In addition, we need to consider another issue: that this would also affect ATMs in the rest of the territory. And, therefore, I think these types of proposals should be carried and they should be carried where they are, which is in the case of the ATM Administration Board, as they then did, huh? Obviously, and that this has now entered the finance committee, which obviously we are willing to study it and look at it. But I insist, I think that this type of proposal, in the first place, because it is more effective and it is not, in this sense, so irresponsible, that, in the first place, it is necessary to agree with them and also, above all, to say where resources are being taken, in this case, from the assembly, to make it possible. And I will not go any further in this first intervention and, in any case, for the next one, I will try to answer the other questions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.232.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.233.0	Thank you, President. Well, Vice President, I didn't expect any less from you: the State is not enough and the Barcelona Assembly is doing everything badly. But, anyway, [[the timer riu]] If we can focus on seeing what the Government is doing or what the Government of the Generality is proposing to us what we should do from the Parliament of Catalonia... And in any case, we make the proposals that I am making to her as a parliamentary group of this chamber, and I understand that Mrs. Ada Colau does it as the mayor of Barcelona, and as the mayor speaks on behalf of the whole government, as I suppose President Aragonès does when he speaks on behalf of the Government of the Generality. In any case, you did say, effectively, in public transport we did not recover from the impact of covid-19 at the level of financing, but not at the level of travellers, and, therefore, exactly what we are putting at it is this: we do something to recover the levels of transport of passengers in public transport foreseen for the pandemic, and to increase them by replacing the passengers by private transport. Therefore, this is the opposite, and we believe that now we have an opportunity, that with a decrease for three months of fifty percent of the rate of the T-usual we believe that we would favor this change of habit. We think we're in a good time to speed up this change of habitat that's so necessary. You tell me: "Your proposals have a very metropolitan look. Miri, I don't agree with you at all. Now I'll tell you a few more, but we've talked to you on repeated occasions, for example, to make Catalonia a country of trains, and we've offered you the Costa Brava tram train, the Bages tram train, the Tarragona Camp tram train, the Olot-Banyoles-Girona connection, the Pyrenees railway. Therefore, all these are investments that we are offering you outside the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Also in the area of buses, which is another of the questions I wanted to raise. We believe that one of the challenges we have is the management of rail transport collection – which I want to remind you that you have the competence to manage timetables and frequencies – but also the transport of passengers by road. And here we have a great challenge, because you know that your own years win a whole series of long-distance bus concessions and that there is a great opportunity here to rethink the model, especially outside metropolitan areas. And to do so..., therefore, a fully integrated model at the operational, information and tariff levels, with a powerful network, with a service adapted to the daily needs of mobility, coordinated with the train and deploying innovative systems in the rural area, such as transport on demand. So, here the repte is capital. And we ask them to get to work, preparing for this scene that goes down to the mountain. I read, too, making Catalonia a country of trains. And this is where resources need to be prioritized. And that must be done by the Government of the Generality. You have to decide whether to prioritise the investment in variants, such as the variant of the Presses and Olot, or whether to prioritise, for example, the connection with the Olot-Banyoles-Girona tram train, which is what we are proposing as an alternative. This is how the country's mobility model is defined: priority. He was telling me, too, the scope of mobility and the digital question. We also believe that there is a great camp to run. And we believe that what we're going to do is move, move. And move'smenys, too, in all areas of the country. And, therefore, to be able to work from home and to work towards the place where you live. Therefore, policies, in short, because we are going to move 'nsmenys. And you told me – and we agree on that, too – the logic of decarbonization. And it is in this sense when we raise them, therefore, that the current crisis does not make us lose sight of the context in which we are and, therefore, that we maintain – and understand that you assume – the commitment of the Government of the Generality to deploy the low-emission zone to all the municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants of the country by the year 2025. I know he'll tell me now that this is the competence of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Twenty thousand, yes. Twenty-thousand – I'm sorry. [[Rialles.]] Twenty-thousand inhabitants before the year 2025. In any case, I already know that Mrs. Jordan..., this is her competence, but the one we..., for which we wanted to ask you about this question is because the ACC, its department, does the dues. Because, in order to make this measure possible, we understand that it is necessary to ensure public transport at the conjunction of these municipalities. And, therefore, what can we guarantee, therefore, that these municipalities have guaranteed and amenable mobility, right? And that's what we think is his competence. I'm done, Counselor. The last question we wanted to raise, which for us is the sea of public transport eggs to Catalonia, is its financing. We here believe that we can think of mechanisms to guarantee the financing of public transport to the country. We understand that the winette must be a mechanism that goes beyond financing the maintenance of the reels and that it also helps us to finance public transport. But we also believe that we may have to start thinking about other mechanisms, so that they also make us see how we finance not only the maintenance and sustainability of public transport to Catalonia, but also all the investments that are needed in this sense. And lastly, when we put in place the proposal to reduce fifty per cent of the T-usual, we have a proposal to finance this, which is the increase of thirty-three per cent, precisely, of the tax on the benefits of electricity. This is the mechanism we propose to make this measure possible for three months. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.234.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, has the words of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.235.0	Yes; congressman, look, I think it's two years with frozen tariffs. Therefore, it is an unequivocal bet, with what is also growing, therefore, the IPC, to favor the policy of the use of public transport. Therefore, I believe that this government, in this sense, in the tariff area – in the tariff area – I believe that it is complete. As we can also clearly speak of the substantial reduction we have already made to the T-mes which, in this case, has gone from fifty-four euros to forty-four euros. But, in any case, of course, what you are proposing from the 50-per-cent rebate and what you say will finance it, so, with this tax on electricity, it will already explain to me how we will do it or how we will do it, because, in any case, it is very good to launch the idea, but then it has to be seen how this can be done from the perspective of the competitions of the Generality of Catalonia. In any case, tell him that this is more or less valued around 50_million euros. But here you don't add up – that's what I told you before, which is why I told you that you have a more early metropolitan view of this measure – the costs that would also be owed to the ATMs at Camp Tarragona, Girona or Lleida. Or don't we have to bring these 50-per-cent citizens down, too? Don't we have to do them? Do we just have to do the metropolitan area? These, all folds, also add up to around $1.5 million, that we'll also have to get them out of somewhere, huh? I say this because we add it all up and, in any case, I think it must be, in this sense, therefore, responsible, when we already suffer the deficit covid with what it means, therefore, to transport, these last years, for what it does to its payment. As well, obviously, we are now patenting the deficit as a consequence of the energy tariff boost in transport. I don't think it's the best measure yet to propose a reduction in that sense. They can look for other measures to make it possible. That said, tell her... you mentioned T-Mobility before. Do you know that today... I'm sorry, yesterday, there were 150,000 users with T-Mobility? Do you know or not? What did they normally use? Do you know that T-Mobility is normally working? No, I'm asking. I'm saying, why do I think he didn't know, huh? And, therefore, T-Mobility is already a reality. It is obviously working with its most common target, and every day it is used by thousands and thousands of people. I'm telling you why this T-Mobility mantra, so it's, like, tired, 'cause it's, like, fully functional. Also tell him that we would agree on one thing, and it is with this will to make this country a country on the railway, so be more useful. Look, I, since I am a territorial advisor, can tell you in all the projects that we are or are advancing or that we have already, say, set aside: four metro stations only in this first year of the legislature – four –; I can tell you that the tunneler of line 9 will come into operation to continue advancing on line 9; we will now also present the draft railway union of the line of Baix Llobregat with the line of Vallès; I can also tell you that we will also present the other day the underground of the line of Railways to Manresa; I can also say that the line of Railways Lleida - the people increases with a further step, and that we will put it in the field of railways to Manresa; I can also say that the line of Railways Lleida - then Tarbla increases with a further step, and that we will put it in the field of railways to Manresa; I can also say that the railways line of line, so far as far as it can be done; in a phase of the railways. In change, there's a question where we don't move forward – there's a question where we don't move forward – huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You know what it is, don't you? I don't think I surprised them, do I? So, listen, where you can help us, why don't you get down there, huh? - Why don't they get laid? Because with rollers, if we could do this full management of rollers in Catalonia, I'm sure we'd get a lot of the proposals that you ask us for and urge us to do. And you have a responsibility now in the state government. – you have a responsibility to the Government of the State. We've been talking about this transplant for many years, and we know what the situation is. I believe that, in this sense, railroads must be the great policy of the train country that you are wrong about, in every House of Parliament, and I cannot agree more. So, listen, lay down the batteries, make your government in the state..., in short, help us to make this objective feasible and, therefore, do not have to say to 'rollies, can we or can we not? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.236.0	We then turn to the agenda, the question to the Government on the implications and measures in the energy field, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Inquiries to the Government on energy-related impacts and measures]] [[300-00147/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.237.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... To begin with, and before entering into matter, I would like to put in context two different documents: the first, the IPCC report, the intergovernmental body on the United Nations climate change, to assess the science related to the climate change. This body has recently published a third report, the third in the past year, which is certainly the most powerful one ever published. The force is given, as you know, counsel, because it sets a time limit for us, fixes a deadline for us, a date of no return: it tells us that as we are very three years old to absolve the peak in the gases of winter effect and reduce it by forty-five_per_cent until 2030. He said: "This is the only way we can limit the global temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. If we do not, we will enter a land of climate disaster, exceeding the two degrees that was marked as limit the Paris agreement, with irreparable consequences for the planet and future generations. In fact, the report has had a very good collided media and some media has possibly summed it up with one of the best headlines that can be found, which was "or now or never. And the current model is unsustainable: we consume more than the planet generates. In fact, mid-2020 we started to consume reservations at the end of July, and in the case of the Spanish State, we are talking about mid-May. The growth model is a model that every year continues to accumulate this CO2 that in theory we have to reduce. NASA, in fact, in 1988 alerted us when we arrived at 350 parts per million CO2 in the atmosphere; today, 2022, despite this reduction objective, we are at 420 ppm. A model of growth that is continuous based mainly on fossil fuels, the escasset of which causes an increase in prices in the energy market, according to the same International Energy Agency announced in its latest annual report of the state of energy in the world. That is to say, he warned us that the current model, beyond being environmentally unsustainable, is economically unsustainable, at least for the low, because it brings us a structural and permanent increase in energy prices. Some consequences to which we must now add the effects of the Russian invasion of Ukraine; a bilateral conflict that we see as affecting us and bearing consequences in many areas, such as food, supply, distribution, energy, without oblivion, of course, the drama of each innocent victim and the consequences of the new migration crisis. Connected to the energy consequences, there's a second document to which I wanted to refer, a document that we all have at home: it's the bill for the light. Incomprehensible, unsustainable, unbearable for the economy of the vast majority of families of this country, but also for the very many activities and negotiations that have seen the price of the light disappear and so, in this way, it is firing its fixed costs because of the energy bill. In the later year, we saw how in the best of cases the invoices showed how it multiplied by more than two the price of the quilowatt/hour or the cubic meter of gas. An unsustainable situation that requires urgent action to accompany the economy and above all the people who need it most. And if it's true – and it is – that the energy crisis has been made worse by the invasion of Ukraine, the problem is also true from the far. It is obvious that the drama of the current price of energy comes from an unfair suffering for a marginalist system of prices, from paying all the energies at the price of the most expensive: the price of gas. And the price of the gas carries up uncontrollably in recent times and has now worsened. A marginalist system accompanied by opaque policies. Without going any further, we have seen as this same week's end, at the same time of the disabate that was pumping 2,200 megawatts/hour of water into reversible hydroelectric power plants – that is, it was carrying water from a lower base than a higher base – it was forcing at the same time the need to get under the marginal 2,200 megawatts/hour of combined gas and coal thermal cycles. Who needed to do this? In fact, only one: forcing to cremate gas that otherwise has not been necessary and the prices of the market, with a seventy_per_cent in the functioning of renewables, has come close to zero_euros megawatt/hour. It is clear that the fossil fuel economy has protected the big oligopolises, and the big oligopolises will protect the fossil fuel economy until the end. And all this, in fact, has happened with the complicity of the system. It's been the right space for rotating doors. From José María Aznar to Felipe González and thirty former ministers of the Spanish Government have been on the boards of directors of the main companies. Some boards of directors that have only sought benefits, in accounts to guarantee the citizen and citizens an essential right as energy. Now, despite the fact that the Government of the State is late in announcing urgent measures to us by decree. This means that in some questions they are positive measures, because they go beyond, even beyond, the same energy fuels and provide a social perspective, looking at the minimum vital ingredient or the limitation of the loguers. But it all rings to pieces, when we have before us the great opportunity to rearrange the model and attack the focus of the problem. Perhaps you will advise – and we ask – that you know it better, with more detail, you can explain to us whether this battery of measurements really are structural or aesthetic, or simply solve this problem for a while until it comes back out. For us, it is obvious that we need to work to resolve everything that is urgent, but at the same time, we need to change everything that needs to be changed. And there is only one way: moving forward to energy sovereignty and breaking, directly through, with the oligopoly that has imposed on us, until today, the current electrical system, and that has proved to be a scam, a scam so flagrant and so great that no one can cover it up nor look at it as a cover-up; a structural scam, with unorbited and unfair charges that we pay among all and that has generated a situation without precedent. The government of the state has the opportunity to change the model, to break with the oligopolises. And if with the tension of price and supply, if with the social tension that we have on the table, the most progressive government of history does not, does not break with oligopolises, a conclusion to which we can lawfully arrive is that possibly they and they also form part. In short, it must lead, from the public sphere, a just system that guarantees energy sovereignty to all citizens. And that, as I said earlier, goes to short and long term measures, urgent measures; and if we want real changes, medium and long term, we have to bet on energy model changes and on a decided development of renewable energies. In this sense, counsel, we know perfectly well, because we have seen it in this Parliament, in this Chamber and in the Committee on Climate Action, that the Government, with the leadership of its department, is working, is working on a long term, a job; a change of model, transformation; with the definition of a model of deployment of renewable energies, in the framework of energy transition, and based on efficiency, in the renewable, distributed, democratic generation, participation, inclusive and closeness, that looks at citizenship and the community not only as consumers, but also as potential energy generators. A transition that we want fair and that either incorporates the social and territorial perspective or will not be. The first priority was the modification of the renewables decree, a necessary step to co-ordinate the model territorially and guarantee its participation and democratization. The next step in the full road has been the development of the local offices for energy transition, necessary to give support to the municipality and the territory in the development of these renewable energy projects and that will be the leverage in the territorial renewable energy plan. It will continue with the energy transition law, which will be the lever and coverage in this energy transition model, a result of which the climate change law commends us. Thus, and as we spoke in the previous motion on concessions to hydropower, the impulse and the creation of a public energy, or among other measures, to name a few and to close it, the agreement with the timing that draws from it the Proencat of the impulse of a bioenergy strategy will achieve the maximum profit with biomass and biogas, a strategy with the objectives of relation and associated with the rural world. Therefore, and finally, counsel, we believe that the government is working to achieve the goals by 2030 and 2050, and is doing so with a transformative will, defining a new energy model. The government, however, beyond the work of the medium and long term, must also respond to the immediate and short term, and for this reason the government approved some measures, a few days ago, concrete, in order to face the escalation of structural energy prices and the increase caused by the war which it would also like to detail. And this is what we want to ask him: that you continue to work and that I act with concreteness and ambition for our sovereignty and for our energy security, for the stability of the price of energy and, obviously, to consolidate this green transformation that now that it's still so much more urgent than ever. As I said before, it's now or ever, and with all the difficulties, that we know it's there, we know you're working for it now or now. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.238.0	Next, the words "Conseller of Climate Action", "Food" and "Rural Agenda", Ms. Teresa Jordà".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.239.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies, deputies. Allow me to say my first words today at this week's plenary session are obviously of support, solidarity, help with the fruit sector, with the sector of pinyol fruit, with the sector of the country's dry fruit, above all of Lleida's plane, but also many other rights of the country that have suffered, in the sense of doubt, one of the worst frosts of the last few years. The government and the department are in doubt. These days, this week, therefore, we are already working on the side of our own sector, as well as the cooperatives, the power stations, to see exactly the numbers and how we can set up this own campaign. Tomorrow a servant will be in the Segria, but, sense of doubt, convinced that between all of us and all of us will get out of it. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. In fact, I fully share the approach he has made to the Catalan energy model, which obviously has to be taken forward in order to move forward, but also, above all socially, it is very important not to leave anyone behind. As you know, last October, the government presented the full route to speed up the energy transition at our home, with this 2030 compromise, but also with this 2050 horizon. Now, today, unfortunately, we see how this invasion of Russia into Ukraine has overcome the prospect of energy security, a very important issue that we have not yet talked about. And he broke it from the states of the European Union, too, huh? , with fossil energy resources, it is to say, that they depend on a eighty_per_cent, approximately, of third countries. Let's see that this, in the end, brings us very vulnerable. Catalonia and the rest of the states of the European Union have neither oil nor natural gas. On the other hand, Catalonia, our resources are water, it's the sun, it's the wind, it's also biomass. Therefore, the necessary response passes, if I may, to accelerate the step towards a self-sufficient, energy-intensive European Union – very important –, and with good infrastructures that connect us – also very important. Today's challenge is no longer just the climate crisis – which also, sense of doubt – is also energy security and energy prices too, sense of doubt. And it's obvious, Congressman, that the energy system has been strained even more now, huh? If it didn't seem to be possible, it still got more tense. If I may, it was the chronicle, a little, of an announced death, which I'd say didn't surprise anyone. The war has only accelerated this unsustainability that we already know of a system, as you said, marginalist of preus. That is why we also need to speed up the modification of the design of the electricity market to take advantage of the low prices of renewable energy, as well as the prices of the technologies that are already depreciated – he has also not talked about – such as nuclear and hydroelectric power plants. In fact, the law on climate change provides that, before May 21st, the Government and the National Commission on Markets and Competition must submit a proposal for reform of the electricity sector, and this, if I may say so, I believe is the key, huh? May 21st; but there is still time. This legal compromise came forced, i.e., also by the Filomena storm of the last month of generation. A storm that also, if I may, had a political part, was also a political storm. At that time the electricity prices, in the middle of the cold, had the highest values of the past twenty years, at that time. The price was 94.99. That's what got us all lost. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Well, from the spring of the 21st we saw the price of electricity in the marginalist market continually increase. Cal, cal, it seems to me, that among all of us we are also aware that while we do not change the price configuration rules, even with the dismantling of electricity gas prices – very important – all the options that are being put on the table bring us, today, in the best of cases, to pay the megawatt/hour between one hundred and twenty megawatt/hour. That's the reality. And what does that mean? So that's supposed to mean, dubiously, multiply the price by two the highest price of the last twenty years. That's it: multiply by two. Obviously, it's not a good price. Some rules that, at the moment, allow to use the water pumping – the storage, I refer – to favor the gas cream to boost the price. This is, in capital letters, an authentic disproposal. The water storage should be used to lower prices and not the other way around, as you explained very well. That's why we asked a few days ago for the state to take control and management of the hydroelectrics. The result, in short, has been a price that perhaps seems to us, as I said, very low, coming from where we come in the last few months, but which I return, is a price elevated, eh? , fruit also of the moment of the Filomena storm. And that's not the fault of the gas market tensions, it's the fault of the market design, which, I'm telling you, allows it. This shows us that it will not be enough to put many more renewables in the electrical system to have an affordable price of electricity – which we also, obviously, need to do – is essential to change the rules of the game. And I was wondering what the other administrations' answer was. Well, the Spanish State, I mean I think it's a little late, huh? But there are things that go the right way and there are others that still have to prove it to us; so clearly. There are measures that we don't see with bad eyes, but they're still a little distressed. They are measures that may come from this situation, it is true, this punctual situation, but they do not structurally change the sector, and therefore they will catch us in a period – that is, in a short time – in the same situation that we now find ourselves, or perhaps worse. It's not just about controlling today's prices, it's about radically changing the system from the set-up. That's important. In this sense, on the 8th of March, the European Commission presented a package, a package of actions, for a more affordable, secure and sustainable energy. It's recognition – it's recognition, it's important – an evidence, that electric companies with infra-marginal power plants have had unforeseen benefits – fate that were unforeseen – quantified at 200,000_million euros. This is why the European Commission proposes that Member States can take tax measures on these benefits in order to compensate for the losses of the scrap. We do not know yet that the Government of the State has presented a fiscal measure on the companies that have entered these benefits, let me thus, fall out of the cell, to reduce the waste, for the moment. As an example. Last September, the Spanish Government approved a royal decree which also approved the need for a sub-up to long-term contracted energy from sub-marginal power stations. It is a good mechanism, it is a mechanism that seems interesting to us to achieve a price of energy for consumers, especially, obviously, for the most vulnerable and also for independent marketers, in this case, while also allowing to reduce these scandalous unexpected entries of the great electrics. But here we are also waiting, because six months after the approval of this decree, there is still no knowledge of the removal of this procedure. For the time being, he hasn't invented anything at all. I mean, it shouldn't be too hard because we already have examples, huh? France, for example, already serves this formula. And a third example, in a very quick way, is: this very week we find ourselves with a decree with a full battery of measures to guarantee the energy security and stability of the prices, huh? But another time we think some opportunities have been lost, and there are some measures that are also interesting. We don't understand why we haven't gone from 500_metres to 501_metres the distance in the proximity between generation and consumption – we still don't understand it –, because here I wouldn't have to suffer anyone, everyone has made a very good living; it's to say, I think that, doubtless, this could have been a measure, but well, in any case, we are at these times analyzing it. With what we still don't think has opened the eyes of the State is the need to regulate the rights of the communities of rulers – very important – to have two terms of power at the length of the year; it is to say, that it is not always necessary to pay the same, obviously. And from around the country, we're obviously in debt, too, aren't we? You've explained everything we've been doing to advance the energy transition, because we play a lot of games, so we're clear. Energy security is also very important. In Catalonia we have plenty of sun, we have wind, we have water, we have biomass. As long as we're all over it, that we have all the public and private talent and that we understand that we're ahead of a country mission. For this reason, the Government has also approved this week to increase the tax on nuclear energy, generating a fund that will be fully devoted to energy transition acceleration policies; 20_million euros that we will fully allocate to significantly increase the number of photovoltaic parks in buildings and public-owned infrastructure – as we give example, I would only miss. It also helps – very important – the connection to the gas grid of biogas plants, and also complete the deployment of public energy with more muscle. We must, therefore, take important and rapid decisions. We are convinced – and I conclude, President – that the answer is to strengthen policies; also, that the transition to renewable energies is radically accelerated; efficiency, as you said, energy, and rational use of energy. They are, in short, the only ones that propitiate us to energy independence, an independence that is at the same time, also, a security of administration and also, at the same time, the opportunity to have genuinely affordable prices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.240.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of Law 3/2019, of the agricultural spaces]] [[300-00150/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of Law 3/2019, of the agrarian spaces. It was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and has the word, to make the presentation, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.241.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, let me first of all add to the words of the Councillor respect the damage that has suffered many farms for the frosts of the last few days. All the gathering and all the climbing of the Socialist Group and Units to advance. Well, as of June 2019, the Agrarian Spatial Law was published, a law that provided for a series of actions: the land sector territorial plan and the information and surveillance system of the state of the agrarian spaces; the monitoring, characterization, evaluation and control plan and inspection of the state of the agrarian spaces; the inventory of the rural paths; identification and limitation of peri-urban areas of activity, and the inventory and record of plots in waste. It's been three years, almost, since his approval, and he hasn't come to the end of the points that the law directed to the department – cap. And the truth is we're already getting used to this government's failure – and so is its department, if I may, will advise. We gave it to them a few weeks ago with the wildlife, huh? We said that we had a hunting law of the year 70, which had not yet changed; a plan to prevent the damage of the wildlife, five years ago, which had not been deployed; a group of rural agents which had been created seven years ago, but which had not been deployed, and, therefore, advise, is very good to legislate, is very good to make plans, to create instruments, but if we do not bring them to term, if we do not just implement them, we do not need them. And, look, the deployment of the land cover law is especially necessary at this time, because the back law makes it possible to act on the unused parcels. And this is essential for the prevention of fires, but it can also be a great opportunity for the agricultural generation. I'll go into the detail. In the presentation appearance of the fire prevention plan that she did, a few weeks ago, the Director General of Forest Ecosystems and Environmental Management, pointed out that it was intended to enhance the recovery of the conreus as an instrument to prevent forest fires and that it was working in the framework of the law of agricultural space. So let's go late. It's been three years, almost, of your approval and it hasn't been deployed. The same Director General exposed the perils of possible fires that could be produced in a country where the forest is advancing and where the hermit lands can act as drivers of these great fires. Therefore, even though it was only for the prevention of fires, it would already be necessary to deploy this law. But it's not just this need. He said that the development of this could be the opportunity for the generational replete in the agrarian world. We have talked on various occasions about the situation in the rural world, the loss of people that have the smallest peoples, and some regions of Catalonia in general – give in concrete terms – and, more importantly, the difference between what happens in the largest nuclei and in the capitals of the region and the peoples, so, smaller ones, right? , in which, for the most part, people are engaged in agriculture or treasuries. We have spoken many times about the need for young people to have opportunities in the agricultural world, to take over the wealth of family farms and to do so, because they guarantee that they will make them worthy to make a living. But also the possibility that young people who don't have family farming traditions and want to devote themselves to agriculture and rowing can do so. In order to facilitate these incorporations, economic aids are important, it is obvious. And, in this sense, the department has help for the first installation of young farmers. In order to put data – which always has to be kept to know what we are talking about – from 2015 to 2020 2,260 first-run aid was processed. If we analyze, however, these data, which can give us, therefore, an information that is very good, we will see that the evolution of the incorporation of young people in the years has declined, right? We see that, of the 675 shippers of the year 2015, it went to 232 year 2020. Therefore, we see that each time there are fewer incorporations into the agrarian world. And if we take a look at the genera, the seventy-three_per_cent are men and only the twenty-i-set_per_cent are women. Therefore, even though there are economic aids for these incorporations, in the light of the data, these aids are not enough. And we don't mean that they're not enough – obviously, they're not us who don't ask for more resources; they're always fine, aren't they? But what we're talking about is that they're not enough that this can't be the only tool, the only tool to encourage young people to get into this farming world. That is to say, this economic tool, which is of fundamental importance, is very useful for those young people who take the stuff to family farms, who, moreover, have adequate dimensions because they can make a good living, it is not for those who want to dedicate themselves to the page without this reference or without that family farms, say, have a sufficient size. And, in these cases, access to the land is also necessary. And here's where the spread of the land law is instrumental. Article 25 of the Law refers to the creation of the register of agricultural and non-agricultural parcels and establishes that the department has to create intermediation mechanisms to promote the continuity of the agricultural activity to the parcels that are no longer exploited by its holder. And we have to push out cessation formulas for the use of these plots and promote them in the logger to safeguard their property. So, we have a tool that we can use, a tool that you don't use. And yet another tool that we have to take into account in this will to promote the incorporation of young people and young people into the agricultural world: the land bank. If you remember, we strongly approved, after working on the text, a CUP motion on the land bank, that what I was pretending was that there was no accumulation of land, especially the most fertile, in few hands, in large businesses, in reverse, but that it was an opportunity for women and young men who wanted to dedicate themselves to the agricultural world. Therefore, we should work to complete what we approved. And in any case, we'd have to find an instrument of action, of intermediation between who wants to sell or land their property and who wants to buy or rent a farm. And in this sense, we could look at what's happening in other places. For example, we could look at what exists in France. There they have a useful instrument since 1960, which is called SAFER. The law that creates this instrument determines the purposes it pursues and justifies the public interest in this instrument. And the objectives are sure that we can share them: installation and resettlement or the maintenance of farmers, the growth of the size of existing farms, the preservation of the balance of farms when compromised for the realization of public interest investments, the protection of the family character of the production unit, the fight against speculation. Therefore, I believe that we can all – or almost all – be in favour. And in this task SAFER has the complicity of the French agricultural credit bank, which facilitates loans so that it can operate public society, but also for those who want to buy these farms, right? Therefore, instruments the resources. So we don't have to invent anything. We study what they do to other places and value what we can apply here, or look for another mechanism. Mirin, in Catalonia we have the Incasól in urban and industrial clau, which has served to boost industrial alone and to create protection habitat, create only for official protection habitat. I'm sure we could improve some of the performances, but in any case it was a valid tool for the function that was meant to be, wasn't it? Therefore, we could do the same, but in rural areas. By the way, when I said that we could improve some of the Incasól's actions, we could also review the estates of their property that they acquired to mobilize only industrialists and that have not developed and that we might be able to go back to being conreans, right? But in any case, if we have a valid tool, as it used to be, in the urban area, so that we do not have a valid tool in the rural area, that we help us to incorporate young people into the agricultural world and that we can keep the farms in place and, therefore, help us to prevent fires? In fact, the very first law of agrarian space was already talking about looking for this intermediation mechanism. And, counsel, we add another argument that we believe you have more sense than ever to expose it, because you need to recover these so that you can understand it. And I mean the time we were living and you were talking a while ago, right? , of the war of Russia against Ukraine. This war has laid upon the table, more than ever, sovereignty and food security. We have thus been aware, perhaps more than ever, than in the last few days, not only in Catalonia, but in Spain and the rest of the European Union, of the dependence we have on other countries in terms of raw materials; the dependence of Ukraine or Russia, especially on cereals and legumes. It is so troubling the situation that even the European Union has authorized itself that the farms that are in store are able to sow to obtain cereals and to compensate minimally for what will not come from Ukraine. And this situation may be spreading. That's not so good. We wouldn't want to, but it may be that it's getting longer. If this happens and the hills do not arrive, we will have to look to produce more and also produce more in Catalonia. It will not be the definitive solution, we know, we are clear, but it will be an important step. Therefore, as the country cannot afford to have conreu camps that are not conrein due to lack of generational replenishment. In short, it does not serve to make any laws that are not deployed. It is not useful to fill your mouth to reach great consensus and then not to use them for useful policies. It's no use creating instruments, designing plans, planning actions that are later left on in full paper because they're not going to be put into practice. The agricultural sector and the rural world have problems of generational replenishment, it is true, but we cannot resign, councillor. Apply the instruments that already exist. Search in other territorial areas what they are doing. Adapt to what works. In short, governments. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.242.0	Next, there is the advisor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.243.0	Thank you again, President. Member of the Commission. Resignation nothing, huh? Otherwise, we wouldn't be here, I hope, neither you nor me. In any case, it's always important to talk about young people and talk about the farming world. And in this sense, if I may, in my first intervention I would like to explain, I also answer in some way to the questions you have asked, but we will have a second occasion, so who are the actions of the department that I have the honor to encapsulate. Let's talk about different axes, huh? I believe that, for one band, there is a sense of doubt, there is the incorporation of young people into the agricultural sector; but for another, the return of young people to the urban world. They're two realities, and we both have to be committed to them and fight. And why do I make this distinction – which does not stop being complementary, too, if I may. So why do we think it's uplifting and that they can't expect or demand that young people who want to live outside urban areas with a high population density, to what we call the rural world, should be dedicated exclusively to agricultural activity. This is a first consideration that many times we have to explain it too often. It is true that in the rural world there are many people who dedicate themselves to the agricultural world, but there are others who do not. And we must be able to make it compatible. So, even the essential task of bringing to an end the people who work and live on the land or take care of the territories and animals, the balance, sense of doubt, of the country also passes through the economic diversification of all these spaces, eh? Also in the rural world. And, therefore, we want and fight because the young man of our country, present and future..., because many times we talk about the young man in the future; no, no, in present, however, in fact, all people in general have, sense of doubt, opportunities in the different professional sectors, in a space that offers opportunities of economic generation on the basis of diversification. This reflection, I explain to you the actions that the department brings to term in order to promote and facilitate the incorporation of young people into the agrarian world. The first of the two axes, more or less I've commented on it, huh? Helping them to incorporate young people – you also spoke. The basis for facilitating the integration of young people into the agricultural world is the help of the incorporation of young people into the agricultural activity of the rural development plan, which is what we know as the PDR, within the second pillar of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, in this case. As you know, these are co-financed with the Fearer Fund and the Government of Catalonia. This line aims to encourage the creation of farms by young people with skills and professional skills. You're gonna have to donate some requisitions, huh? I'm not going to explain them, but they basically fill in a few simple requests and, from here, they can access them. The help you give for incorporations consists of a bonus that buys two concepts: the first base and the increments. The sum of these two concepts can never exceed seventy-one thousand euros – ever. And the payment is made in two steps: at the beginning and at the end of the business plan, obviously, therefore, following these requirements that I gave him. The first base is an import of EUR 22,000, determined by the need for minimum expenses and also the circulating activity required for the inn in operation of an holding. And this first one can be increased, in this case, depending on the degree of commitment with the agricultural activity up to, as I said, a maximum of seventy thousand euros. Thanks to these help, in five years, if I seemed to listen to her well – you have commented – from 2015 to 2020 we have helped more than 2,500 young people to create a future. We've invested more than 43 million, because this young man can pull his life project forward, too. For another band – and he talked about it and it's also the fruit of this inquiry – there's the law of agricultural areas. For us, it is an essential law, approved with a large majority, a very large majority, of this Parliament, which came very late. Why then, on the second side, will I tell you about the policies that we found in this department, the brave policies, the policies dedicated to agriculture when we arrived, huh? , which tended to be zero, not to say at least eight. I read about agricultural areas. As I said, one of the important axes is, of this law, the register of land in waste. What you're planning is to get back – and you were talking about it – abandoned land and make them just available, through the logger, to agricultural enterprises that start or need to grow, because it's obvious that we have a problem, huh? – this does not happen in this country only – with access to the land. The bidding of these so long as it is expected that it is done through a competitive competition call with priority, and I think it matters to explain it to you today. Of course, we all have to start from scratch; we have to make a regulation, that then, if I have time, I'll be a little bit, and I'll put it on schedule, that's always the most important and that I really like to do, huh? And we're talking about young people and women, too. It is expected that by this measure we will be able to offer land to the young people who are willing to engage in farming and who also want to start a business again, or, as I said before, they want to grow what they already have. Secondly, from the complementarity that I have advanced and from the department in concrete terms, but also from the rest of the government departments in general, it is a job to facilitate the return of young people, too, huh? Here we can talk about the rural agenda, but obviously we can talk about this a few weeks from now, because it's not that you're in the oven, you say, it's smelly; so, a few weeks from now, we can explain it a lot better. But there are plans that we work in an interdepartmental way and that are working very well and that many times we forget to explain them. In the band of the rural agenda, I would like to highlight the project Odisseu. This project is one of the projects being developed in the Leader area, for us very important, and also in the RDP programme, rural development. It is a cooperation project that encompasses the eleven local action groups in our country and that is intended to give response to youth migration, as we say, this urban rural youth migration, and provide possible solutions. The goal is to encourage – it's a big goal, huh? – the return of young people to rural areas from facilitating their employment and promoting the relationship between young people and their rural areas of origin; the return of talent. To achieve this objective, you need to work cross-sectionally. If we don't do this, it's very difficult. I, last week or another, was in Vinaixa just and I took advantage to be there to inaugurate a library. And the pleasant surprise was just that, thanks to the recovery of this library, the library that had come was a daughter of Vinaixa, a girl of twenty-five years old, who had to leave and that the opportunity of work to reopen in this small town this library allowed her to return. This, obviously, is also a rural agenda; this is getting people back into the territory. In order to achieve this objective it is necessary, as I said, to work cross-sectionally and in this we are. Other types of programs that obviously don't have to talk about today. In conclusion – and in order to finish this first part – absolutely agree with you of the tool that represents the law of the agricultural spaces. After that, it doesn't matter that I'm going to detail it more where we are, but I wanted to make this presentation, because it seems to me important and that it's very good what we're talking about. And for the department and for the government is a priority, as it cannot otherwise be, the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world. As a result of the continued existence of existing farms, business projects are also being undertaken. It's true that there's no future for young people, neither is there for anyone, that's to say, it's paramount to fight there. But, look, in the end, the law of agricultural areas is very important. Many other policies that need to be complemented are very important. The rural agenda is very important. The cross-cutting of the government is very important, because not everything in the rural world began and ended with agriculture – which also – and with the ramaderia – which also – but not everything. But the most important thing is that our young people join the camp..., in the band of the formation that we are developing very well from the agricultural schools and with a lot of success – with a lot of success –, and with innovation and with technology and, finally, with all the new things that we can bring in this sense, the most important thing is that our young people can earn a decent living. And this goes so far as not to perceive what they produce under the price that costs them to produce it. That's the key. And this, unfortunately, is not just a problem of our country but it is moving to the breadth and breadth of the territory. There is an important tool – we have spoken more than once – which is the law of the food chain. This law, approved at the end of the year, is not the law we wanted; we wanted it much braver, much more distressed. But it's a tool – it's a tool. Now what we have to do is to express it, because by expressing this tool we will also have a more motivated, let me say 'hodir', very important, which complements with access to the earth, which complements with the help of incorporating young people, which complements with cross-cutting policies, meaning that we have much younger people not only behind the territory and the rural environment, but also to a profession as extremely essential as our country's pages and branches. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.244.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.245.0	I'll start at the end, Counselor. The law of the food chain obviously is a very important law; very important for the whole agricultural and branching sector – very important. And another day we'll have another debate, because, obviously, that's for a lot, and also the paper that the Generality has to keep in the inn in operation of this food chain law. But today it doesn't touch, as he would say. It is true, as you said, that not everyone who lives in the rural world is dedicated to the page and is dedicated to the branch, it is obvious; but a large part, the vast majority dedicate themselves to it. And, in fact, this question that today really affects this, because if we guarantee that young people can and want to stay in town to develop activities related to agriculture and industry, then we will not only have a country balanced territorially, but we will guarantee the production of food, we will have food security as to the quality and quantity of these foods. And you said, "Listen to me, the law of agricultural areas is fundamental, it is essential. Yes, it's essential, but three years ago it's practically approved and you haven't developed it yet; yet you haven't. Now you're telling me that they're giving us this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two years. Three, huh? June 2019 is when it was approved. That they donate calendars to us. Stupend, huh? But we're late. We must take advantage of the instruments we have, he will advise – before I tell you. And if they don't work or we think they're not enough, we need to look for, adapt to others that can work. And we have to allocate resources to it. And we believe that we must begin to appreciate agricultural activity and rowing. We should put into value those who have provided us with supplies in the most complicated moments, in the moments of the pandemic, and why not, now too, in those moments that we suffer the consequences of this terrible war of Russia against Ukraine, right? And we also need to talk, and we need to promote studies related to the agricultural world. You made reference to it earlier. And, in this sense, vocational training in the rural context requires, for us, a unique course of action. Agricultural schools, such as public centres dependent on their department, are instrumental in the formation and activities of the rural world. The formation given occupies a space that is difficult to replace that which needs to be enhanced. As well as providing an offer of FP cycles according to the needs identified for rural development and enterprise plans, with the participation of social and territorial agents. In the same way that it can facilitate access to these cycles with transport and feeding grants for the students of rural areas, as well as to take face-to-face cycles without offer in some territories, and subsidizing practices in rural environments for the students of urban and metropolitan centres. But beyond the formation, those who want to develop their professional and vital project in the rural area, who are dedicated to the pages or to the ramaderie, will need land, they will need money for the adequacy of the farms and for the machinery, they will need professional support, especially those who do not have that reference, that family agrarian tradition – and this before we said it – but they will also need a rural environment of services. And here I have to ask you, Counselor, where is the rural agenda. You said, "No, it's not in the oven, it's smelly. Listen to me, it's been so long since they've told us that it smells like it almost doesn't smell like it anymore, huh? Because we know that the citizen participation process has been over for a long time. And, therefore, we want to know when we see this strategy defined according to this participation. Before, Vice President Puignero, in the morning, told us... he was talking about pilot plans, right? Listen to me, it's no longer time to talk about pilot plans, we're not at this moment, we should have passed this moment. It's time to plan and implement bold actions and policies also in the area of the rural agenda, because other communities have already done so, huh? And, therefore, we believe that we are late. Because, as I said, young people in rural areas must have the same basic conditions as in urban areas. They have to have housing, which isn't there, and it's one of the complaints that many mayors and many young people who live and want to stay in the countryside. They need basic services, such as schillings for the scoundrel, health services that work, culture at the abst or activities of the oci. And they need physical connections and digital connections too, because that's the only way to make sure that young people get around and can stay in rural areas. And if you don't make the effort to put these services in the countryside, it won't be easy for these young people to stay. And if they don't want to stay and they don't want to dedicate themselves to agriculture and tavern, we'll have a problem. We will have a problem of territorial and social cohesion, and we will also have a problem of supplying the most essential products, won't we? Therefore, as we have always said, our group is willing to add in many areas, and in the agricultural world and in the necessary generational replenishment as well. Obviously, because we believe that it is essential to have, as before, a socially and territorially cohesive country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.246.0	There's the word, then, the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.247.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, on the way in, let me tell you, huh? The Department of Climate Action does not incomplete anything else – it does not incomplete anything else. Now, if you want me to say that the Administration is slow, then I will say yes, and I assure you that it will not by this will advise – surely not by its fault either. When we arrived, I repeat, at this department with Constellera Serret, the courageous policies respect the agricultural sector were zero, Mrs Ibarra – they were zero – more than paying, as it cannot otherwise be, or making it a transmitter of common agricultural policies. The law of agrarian space should have been thirty-five years ago that it should have been approved. Okay? We approved it with a large majority, in a very busy way. You say to me: "Almost three years ago. It's not nearly three years ago. Let's go slow, huh? Now I'll tell him where we are. Let's go slow. I say things as they are: we are slow, implementation has been slow, despite having fifty_ thousand open fronts. But, man, we have to bear in mind that in this country there were elections, that we were once without government, that there was a pandemic, and that we had to face a thousand fronts, also from the agricultural sector, in which we gave an answer. And I can talk about Gloria, I can talk about the Filomena, I can talk about the war in Ukraine, and I can talk about fifty thousand things that you know, know, and I understand that also, in this sense, are in our hands. Says: "No one puts in value the work that our producing sector does. I'm sorry, I don't know who doesn't put it in value, because this councilwoman leaves her life every day, and the whole department. The problem... [[Some applause.]] The problem is that in this country... and the country in the end is also the reflection of the governments that preceded us, many, eh? And here, surely, we all share it. But, listen to me, in the end it's the reflection of society. And the disaffection of the urban world and the rural world, forgive me, was not invented by Councilwoman Jordan, there is and we are doing everything possible to break it, obviously. And, man, I think this parliamentary bow... I think... I value it, huh? because neither for the pandemic nor for the war of Ukraine nor for the sake of food sovereignty, it seems that someone else has laid the piles. I'm glad, because maybe we'll move on. But, in any case, the disaffection is not the fault of the Department of Agriculture; neither of this, nor of those who preceded it. It must be, in any case, of the different governments; it must be very clear. That said, you're a farmer. There are three very important elements. He didn't talk about it, but I'll also schedule it, which is the land plans. They're vital. They're vital, these. There is a register of wasteland and implementation – also very important – of the regadiu. These are three very important elements. We can... because at the end of the day I'll run out of time and I won't run out of time. Miri, at this point... now we're talking about the land register, huh? , because there are three elements that go separately, obviously. But the rule, basically, is something new, difficult too, that we want to do well, that we have to talk to the agricultural organizations, that we have to talk to everyone. It's a very new thing. I'm also saying that to value the work that's going on, huh? But we've already done this, we've already agreed, and so on. At this point, the legal office has already passed and we already have the legal report and the following procedures are missing. Subsequent referrals to the Administration are not extremely fast. If I'm not mistaken, we must miss it – I pointed it out now, huh? I mean, I might get a jump on some – the Organization Service – that's, say, the House Service Directorate, which here is already more than me and we're already falsifying – has to pass the forum, the legal advisory committee, the technical council, the CTESC. And that's it. We've got it. What does that mean? How many weeks? Home, you don't make me say it, but in any case, I'm very convinced that in the summer... September, for no... because... look, for Mercè. We'll keep the land register for Mercè. I've done it before. Territorial plans, too, are very important. We've come a long way here, haven't we? At this point we are preparing and to take out the contest of the territorial plan of the Penedès, because they are the first ones they have offered. There were three here. Now we haven't agreed on one between the Penedès. And it will be Penedès the first territorial plan that we will set up the table. And I can tell you that it'll be before the market, can't I? And here we are. It's true, we're slow – we're slow. Administration is slow. It's not a voluntarious thing to do. There is a lot of work behind; it has been done; there is a very important support from Parliament. I am convinced that it will be a great tool, not the only one, as you said very well, and I have tried to complement it, but in any case, we will get out of it. Because it is vital; it is vital to achieve the generational replenishment of the page. And if we really want to assume... that you also talked about it, right? And now these days she's talking more, huh? Despite the disaffection, now everyone is putting more value on this – it would just be missing – because our pages and gatherings are about producing food, and in this country we have a way of eating five times a day. It is to say, that in any case, if we want food sovereignty, we need, like no one else, our pages and our branches. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.248.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about growing insecurity]] [[300-00144/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the government's inquiry into insecurity is growing. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, and has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.249.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen... today I want to start by talking to you, Mr. Elena, about something I'm sure you know, which is called the culture of cancellation. The culture of cancellation is a practice which the left spread throughout the world, and in Catalonia also separatism, and which consists in silenced everyone who does not think like you, in silenced one who dares to dissipate from the dogmas of the politically correct. And today I want to refer to one of those dogmas that can't be dispelled under any concept. And this is the interest of the left and separatism in promoting and opening the doors of Catalonia to a massive and uncontrolled immigration and in denying the harmful consequences that this immigration has, without control or order. If someone denounces this silent avalanche that has caused more than 100 thousand illegal immigrants in Catalonia, according to estimates by the Generalitat itself, if someone asks for a minimum of control in the access of immigrants to our land, he is quickly described as racist, xenophobic or Islamophobic. And look, whether you like it or not, massive and uncontrolled immigration causes serious social, economic and security problems, especially in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods and in the middle and popular classes. I want to refer in particular to the security problems. Your policies, Mr Elena, and those of Mrs Colau have made Barcelona synonymous with insecurity. And that is why, year after year, insecurity remains the main concern of the Barcelonans and many Catalans. Nobody escapes that for a long time the capital of Catalonia has become a focus of all kinds of crime and that leads all the crime statistics of the Ministry of the Interior for years. Catalonia is the region where more crimes are committed and more serious. In 2021 alone, more than 390,000 crimes were committed. And the problems of security and crime – theft, sexual assault, illegal occupations, drugs – are on the order of the day and spread rapidly throughout the region. Hospitalet or Badalona are also among the ten most insecure cities in Spain. And the Ebro Delta is on its way to becoming the Conception Line, with the seizure by the Civil Guard, a few days ago, of more than three tons of hashish and several narcolanches. And I'm going to give you three facts that should make us all reflect on this connection between insecurity and mass immigration. First of all, the data from the prisons. The percentage of foreigners who are in prison in Catalonia is overwhelming, considering the proportion of foreigners living in this community, which is 16.1_per_cent. According to Idescat, in 2020 foreigners were forty_and_eight_per_cent of prisoners in Catalan prisons, 3,779 out of 7,884. Thus, forty_and_eight_per_cent of foreign prisoners in prisons, sixteen_per_cent of foreigners in society. In 2021, moreover, there is a demolishing fact that the Government has provided us with in response to a parliamentary question. In the Centre Penitentiari de Joves, the percentage is not half, it is eighty_and_one_per_cent – I repeat: eighty_and_one_per_cent. Of the 313 young people at the Centre Penitenciari de Joves admitted or serving their sentences, 253 are foreigners and 60 are Spanish. Does this fact, Mr. Elena, deserve you some thought? Because we know that that demolishing percentage has a lot to do with those young mennas and ex-mennas that where they would be best would be with their parents and in their countries of origin. And we asked him... [[Some applause.]] And we ask him: "How is the polyhedric plan designed by the Government to combat the crime of the MENA and former MENA who sow terror every day in our streets and neighborhoods? Why was that specific plan created in 2019? Here we don't talk about personal impressions, we don't talk about ideology; we talk about mathematics. There is no more objective data than the number of persons in prison for committing crimes. And it turns out that half of the ordinary prisoners in Catalonia, almost half, are foreigners, and eighty_and_one_per_cent of young people are foreigners. These data draw an irrefutable conclusion: if we were to expel all illegal immigrants and legal immigrants who have committed serious crimes, we would empty the prisons, Mr Elena, and Catalonia would be safer. [[Some applause.]] Another fact: the annual balance sheet of security and police activity of the Mossos d'Esquadra. The Department of Interior has decided that since 2016 the nationality data of offenders in Catalonia are not published. They say they bet on transparency, but it's not true, they deliberately hide the nationality of criminals so Catalans don't know what's going on. But, for example, in the area of sexual assaults, it turns out that the latest data published by Mossos d'Esquadra specifying nationality, in 2016, are conclusive. This is the balance sheet for 2016: fifty_and_six_per_cent of the sex offenders were foreigners and forty_and_four were Spanish. And the third fact: the daily facts; which are no longer isolated, are daily facts. Counselor, there is no day when we will not find any news related to crime and illegal immigration. Look, news published by La Vanguardia on August 26, 2019: the eight criminals who accumulate more arrests in that summer of 19, prepandemia, all foreigners. This is the photo distributed by the Mossos d'Esquadra of the ten most active watch thieves in Barcelona. There are ten persons: eight men and two women; eight men of Maghreb origin; two women of Romanian nationality. Here we want you to tell us how the Tremall action plan is going against multirecidual crime. What is the result? Where is it being applied? What nationality do multi - recidivism have? We call for transparency, Mr Elena, transparency and police efficiency. And we could go on to infinity, but, look, I'm just gonna tell you news from the last few weeks. Look, Capgròs, of Mataró : « A group of thirteen foreign minors assaults two security guards in the nearby station of Mataró. « Two Magrebian men harass and threaten – Metropoli daily – « with a gun to a girl in the metro of Barcelona. La Veu de Lleida : « Arrested a 20-year-old Moroccan for an attempted murder in the hostel Jericho de Lleida. El Nacional case : "A woman of fifty years of Cuban nationality and her Moroccan partner of thirty-eight for stealing eighty_ thousand euros from a retired person in L'Anoia is detained. El Nacional case : « A 19-year-old Moroccan assaults armed with a knife a nursery in Terrassa with the aim of abducting two children. Reason : « Arrested a young Moroccan for another sexual assault in Igualada. And I'm not referring to the sad girl whose assailants we haven't heard from yet; it's another new one. Diari de Reus : « An Algerian of twenty-three years is charged attacking a couple without a roof in Reus, assaulting the man and abusing the woman. The man died in the hospital days later. La Gaceta de la Hidrosfera: "The police arrested five followers of a Pakistani terrorist group in Catalonia and Andalusia. Diari Segre : « A Moroccan beats a man of ninety-three years in Lérida when he blames him for occupying the shed of his house. And so so much news that we could continue to list and that realize this absolutely undeniable reality. And, look, Catalan society is worried, Mr. Elena. Foment del Treball called last week to meet with its president, Mr Sánchez Llibre, and the chairman of the Committee on Security of Foment, because they are alarmed by the growing insecurity in Catalonia. Mayors of the metropolitan area have met last week to coordinate joint security policies in the face of increased crime; security policies that their department does not do. Now you will try to move a false sense of security with grandiose words and coordination plans, but, in fact, neither you nor they have the political will to end the problem. For example, Mr. Elena, you have the general security plan of Catalonia expired since 2019. Three years ago. Now, yes, many plans to feminize the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and many plans to change the physical tests of the aspirants to Mossos for Ramadan. They are allowing and encouraging a massive and uncontrolled immigration into Catalonia that is putting our entire coexistence system against the ropes; they are imposing their ideological and multicultural model regardless of the increasingly evident insecurity and degradation of many Catalan neighborhoods. And if we continue along the same path, in a few years we will have a virtually irreversible security problem, as today cities like Paris, London or Brussels have. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, it takes courage and determination to recognize this problem which has led to eighty_and_one_per_cent of the inmates in the Young Prison Centre being young foreigners and to Catalonia leading, year after year, all crime statistics. And courage and determination to implement concrete measures. And don't tell me that foreign affairs are matters of state competence, because you have the responsibility for citizen security and the obligation to deal with it. Do not devote so much effort to negotiating Netflix and do so to demand compliance with the Aliens Act. And I'm done. You always say that security is about guaranteeing the rights and freedoms, above all, of the most vulnerable. Well, really protect those people you claim to be defending, those victims we've seen of terrible rapes, or that old lady who was robbed with extreme violence on the portal of her house in Sarrià to steal her wristwatch. In all these crimes, Mr. Elena, there is a common denominator that I have transferred to you today with this interpellation, the same one that frightens thousands of Catalans, who are afraid to leave their home or that their daughters will go alone on the street. Those are the vulnerable people you must protect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.250.0	Counselor, you will allow me before giving you the word directs me to Mr. Macián. Mr. Deputy, as I told you before I started your inquiry... I asked you to be healed with your words, which I recalled in this Parliament's Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct speaks specifically – and I have repeated it many times in many interventions – in article 7, which cannot produce any discrimination on grounds of origin, which is what you have been doing throughout your intervention. And already in various plenary sessions have been this connection of immigration with crime. And they can sort the data they want, they can ask the government what they want, theirs is a thesis that is discrimination of origin. And in this Parliament we cannot allow hate speech linking immigration with crime. And it is a very important lack of respect for the Catalan people, it is a clear attempt to suppress social cohesion, because it incites racism and promotes xenophobia, and violates human rights in this way. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] And now, yes, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.251.0	President. MPs, MPs... MP, is this about the cancellation policy that you said is practice, for example, to engage and disable those who politically disagree with you? Because this is a policy of radical and unjust cancellation, and it has been practiced at its fundamentals. [[Greetings.]] Second. I do not want to enter, with all sincerity, into his game, because in the end the debate on the policy of security to my hear he cares very little. Go here and make some announcements and instructions to put them in a video and then put them outside the country: their speech of por, their speech, from my point of view, clearly xenophobic, in which they try to generate an image to society according to which there are some concrete people who are at the origin of all evils, and you appear as guarantees that this evil will disappear radically. And as this way of hearing politics and political debate does not share it, I will explain what security policy is, in my view. I was surprised, for this reason, to say that there are no data and then the exhibits in such a clear way. It's really surprising. Because it turns out that the Department of the Interior doesn't say the data based on the nationality and origin of the people and, in change, you even know and eat everything. What I can assure you is that most likely, as I believe with your intervention, if men do not exist, it would not be practically necessary for the police, because the highest percentage of crimes in this country are the practice of men, the practice of men. [[Greetings.]] So, let's not fall into..., falling into his parany is falling into wanting to stigmatize parts of society, and it seems to me that this is very negative. But it is precisely that which underpins the nuclear base of its ideology and its political practice, and, therefore, it is obvious that we do not have to enter it. In Catalonia... says about growing insecurity in Catalonia. There is no growing insecurity in Catalonia. In the last two years there have been a 18.89_per_cent drop in criminal acts in our country. And does that have to keep us euphoric and happy? No, no, While there is one person, while there is one victim, the Councillor of the Interior, the Government and all political representatives we have to be loving and we have to work and fight to fight it. Undoubtedly. But to be strict, to say things as they are, to do politics seriously, it is essential that the data be followed. There was an 18,89_per_cent less fetal delinquency year 21 than in year 19. That's it. And a much higher percentage, thirty per cent more arrests. More prevention, more police efficiency. And we will continue to work, as always, to ensure the safety of the citizens of Catalonia. I, yes: to guarantee rights and freedoms, and particularly of the most vulnerable. And we'll make it more agents, more media and more effective at protecting the citizenry. Our models, miri, are – you know – absolutely opposed. It is impossible to touch, because they start from an absolutely different phonament and ideolological substrate. We'll bet on more agents, and we'll work it out. Increase of the base thanks to an agreement with the Government of the State: up to 22,000 agents. The contract involves 800 agents each year, to be more present in the territory. A police officer who assembles more to the society he serves, yes; therefore, feminism and diversity between the Squad's Cos de Mossos. Mediation and prevention. More technical means and, therefore, more resources. More intelligence, more technology for information and research, because it's the way to be more effective. Deployment of the country, yes: to the territories, to the sea, to the space, also, to be more effective, and to the network. And intervene, when necessary, with the use of proportional force for the parties they produce. Prevention; more intelligence; more investigation; more mediation; more presence; more attention to the victim; more relation to the community; more knowledge, therefore, of social reality, and use of force, whenever necessary, proportional. That's the order. The order is that. Because it's what's effective, what's just and what's democratic. Mr. Fernández sometimes says that this is a funny model of security. With all sincerity – I have said this on other occasions – I prefer a curious model than a testosterone model, which is more than just unfair, absolutely inefficient. That's why you're saying, these principles and this model, you're saying democratic police, you're saying modern police, and above all it's effective police, which is the ultimate goal. And you represent a uniform model of society in which it disagrees with yours is suspected. It's the model he wants to chase and fight the difference. It is the model of free testosterone and aggression, of the primary impulse, to generate by citizens and citizens to justify their policies of exclusion, and it is free and above all sterile – sterile violence, because where their policies of security are practiced societies are more insecure; more unjust, but more insecure, than more. Therefore, democratic police of the 21st century versus old police of the 40th century, dark and dark police. And this model, this model that the police of Catalonia has, which improves day by day, is what makes it an estimated, valued and effective police; estimated and valued for the majority of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, because they feel like it, because it guarantees the exercise of rights and freedoms, because they feel accompanied in their needs and because it is effective. And I want, therefore, to take advantage of the thanks given to the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its proximity, to climb the street, to coordinate with the other security elements, and very particularly with the local police, for its results and for the effectiveness in its work of a decrease in criminal acts, and very particularly with those affecting the assets, acts of rape or intimidation or the robberies with force, which has been very noticeable, and of the rest of the crimes against the assets. This is our police, the one we defended, the one you said was a septic tank in this Parliament. This police that they say defend, you said it was a septic pit; it's the police that you want to close, it's the police that you want to eliminate, because it's precisely the police of proximity and the police esteemed for the majority of Catalans and Catalans, and that's why they want to stigmatize a part of society. And we won't get into these games: they versus us; they from here to the outside. And, look, I, as an interior advisor, will fight tirelessly for this model of police, because I understand that it is the police that the citizens of Catalonia deserve, because it is the police that defends the rights and freedoms of the citizens better, and also because it is the police that is the most..., and the security model that is the most effective, which guarantees the best results. And this is the last end, last dawn that we have to get as the police of Catalonia. Therefore, we will never agree with the model of security, fortunately, because we start from very different conceptions than life in society is. What we will not tolerate is that you put the spur, permanently put the por, division and confrontation to our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.252.0	In the replica turn, has the word Mr. Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.253.0	Thank you, President. I, Mr Elena, have given you an absolutely objective fact: that the eighty_and_one_per_cent of the young people in the prison center were foreigners. And that half, almost half, in the common centers, common prisons, are foreigners. And I'm talking about numbers and percentages, because you like to talk about numbers and percentages. For example, in the area of road safety. Last November, the Department of Interior announced on a drum and platter that it was going to apply the gender perspective to road safety because men caused eight_of_each_ten fatal traffic accidents, being fifty_and_seven_per_cent of the drivers. He said: "We are talking about fifty-seven per cent of drivers who cause eighty per cent of mortality. It's a date to consider to design policies, preventative measures. I don't call you misandric– do you know what misandria is? , hatred of the man –; I don't call you misandric. That is, you can design road safety policies in relation to eight_of_each_ten fatal accidents causing men and I can put another objective data on the table for you to design citizen safety policies. Well, Mr. Elena, that's where we're not doing well, that's where the department isn't doing well. Look, Commissioner Marta Fernández, the head of Mossos de Barcelona, has recently said that nationality is not a data of interest to the police. And I ask him: how is it not going to be relevant? To stop a person you have to know the details of their identity when it is appropriate to stop the. To do prevention policies and tasks, which you so much like to talk about in the commission of the police model, you also need to know the nationality of people. Also for the sake of transparency: citizens have the right to know who are causing insecurity and crimes on their streets, if any. And for a pragmatic question: to be able to expel them when they have committed a serious crime. Thirdly, Mr. Elena, if there is no increase in insecurity, why do you want to raise the ceiling of the Mosses to twenty-two thousand troops? I am not inventing that increase in security; there is a security crisis. And, of course, when you're talking about the septic tank... we were talking about the police commanders. Let's see if it's going to be that Gabriel Rufián can speak in the Congress of State Cloacas and we can't say that police commanders, especially some police commanders, have behaved like a real septic pit – it's not a criticism, of course, neither the prefecture nor the Mossos d'Esquadra. And finally, a reflection. Look, we all have – and above all the Spaniards – all nations have the right to regulate the entry conditions of those who aspire to live in our country. Immigration must be legal, orderly, adapted to the needs of Spain and to the integration capacity of those who want to come to live among us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.254.0	The inside counselor has the word in the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.255.0	I share with people who know about security and with people who run the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And, therefore, how that is, effectively, the Squad Mousses and all the democratic polices of the world in which they are fixed is in the behavior of people, not in their origin. Because attaching police to people's origin is another thing, it's another model of police; it's a model of police that as long as it exists, and that exists in many countries of the world. But do you know what's going on? That they are just the countries that we don't want to know absolutely nothing about. [[Greetings.]] Do we want more cops? Yeah. Clearly, we want more police, naturally, we have said it, because the population grows, because the needy grow, because the complexity of our societies also grows. For example, there is a risk of a terrorist threat to the countries of our circle that did not exist twenty years ago. And, therefore, there is a dedication of our police and the police around us, with programmed activities linked to the fight against terrorism and to the prevention that they did not exist before. Because our country at this time has 19 million tourist nights and did not have them, so, 20 years ago. And, therefore, changing circumstances, changing the country needs, because it grows, more police; but also a model of police that was oriented towards proximity, to keep the police at the side of the people, that must hold the police, therefore, patrolling precisely together with the local police for the barrels and streets of our country. Yeah, that's why we want more cops. And like you, as representing that it's on the part of the citizens of Catalonia, said that..., today you say that the... - it's that you made a sentence that it's to lodge it, huh? He says, "No, no, we don't say it's a septic moss of squadron, but it's the commandments. Says: "But, ep, this is not a criticism of the prefecture, is it? Let's see if we understand each other. What you can't do is launch this kind of statement in such a free way. I want to express my support clearly and clearly to the staff of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, who, thanks to them, have allowed for their work from the very first to the last, that during these two years there has been a decrease in the crime in our country; that we are aware that there is a lot of work still to be done and that we are doing it very effectively, and we will be at your side to help them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-06-2801.256.0	Well, thank you very much, counselor. We suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you.
