ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.1.0	Very nice late. The session begins. And I'm guessing that the list of questions to answer orally in the plenary is included in the file that everyone has at their disposal. And, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated tomorrow morning at nine, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session that we are now beginning. I inform you that there are four Members who have delegated their vote for this session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] And, also before we begin the order of the day, I inform you that, according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, there are a total of 646 victims of death and disappearances in the Mediterranean, according to the Ministry 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean. It is also worth remembering that democratic countries are built on the basis of consensus that explains and identifies them, and that the respect that a country devotes to them is a basic principle that defines the democratic quality of that country. In Catalonia, one of these consensuss is the need to defend the Catalan language, which is the common language of the Catalan Countries and is an indestriable symbol of our identity. Today we know of a new judicial intrusion that affects the consensus in the Catalan language. The laws emanating from this Parliament in language have been approved by a large majority and must be respected. And, before this intrusion, as firm and consensual, but the consensus must serve to preserve the language, and not to recede into its defense. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.2.0	President, let me see if I can finish the argument. For a call to comply with the Rule of Procedure according to Rule 90.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.3.0	Since the beginning of this legislature, because they are calling for compliance with Rule 90, he knows that Rule 90 makes it possible to comply with the Rules in the course of a debate and to call for some other article of the Rules. It is not a debate, it is the principle of the plenary, and, as you know perfectly well, Article 169.4 empowers the President of this Parliament to make statements that I consider appropriate, which is what I have just done. And now I will proceed and continue to make a statement from the Board of Spokespersons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.4.0	Excuse me, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.5.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.6.0	Then, according to Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, its duty is to observe neutrality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.7.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.8.0	...of the debate and order the debates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.9.0	Mr Martín Blanco, I insist: you have a legal note from the services of this Parliament, which, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, have already explained to them how the observance of the Rules works, in Articles 90 and 39. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.10.0	You can't do a reading...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.11.0	No, no, Mr. Martin Blanco, please, you don't have the word. I'm making use of... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. I pulled them out... I pulled the word out. I'm not talking to you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm telling you that you can't make the call you're making from the rule book, because you know perfectly well that you're not close. And, on the other hand, I am making a statement as the President of this Parliament, pursuant to Rule 169.4, which you know perfectly well that I can do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, I will not talk to you about the Rules, when there are reports of legal services explaining to you how to interpret the articles of the Rules. I'm doing it with closeness. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let us continue with the session by reading the declaration of the Board of Spokesmen on the Parliament of Catalonia... [[Pause.]] Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.12.0	In the same sense of '39 and '90, it is not democratic to question judicial decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.13.0	Mr. Garriga...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.14.0	It's a shame the president didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.15.0	Mr. Garriga, Article 90 has already explained how it works. They recommend reading the Rules. And I'll get you the report that the house's legal services did because they see how it works. [[Declaration by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokesmen on the Turkish military offensive to Southern Kurdistan]] [[401-00017/13]] I proceed to the reading of the declaration of the Assembly of Speakers of the Parliament of Catalonia on the Turkish military offensive to the Southern Kurdistan. It's a long statement. Therefore, I will read the final part of it, which is what explains to the place of the Assembly of Speakers of the Parliament of Catalonia. It calls on all governments and international organisations, including the United Nations Organization, NATO and the European Union, and the Council of Europe and the Arab League, to take urgent action against the violation of international law involving military action in the areas of the Zab region to Southern Kurdistan. The Catalonian Parliament's Board of Spokesmen also demands that the supply of military material from the Spanish State to the Turkish State be halted, while denouncing the political alliances between the European Union and its member states with Turkey. Condemns without ambiguity this aggression, and demands that Turkey withdraw the tropes of Southern Kurdistan. Call political parties, human rights organizations, organizations for the peace, trade unionists and activists to oppose this Turkish aggression and occupation. It defends the legitimacy of Kurdish parties fighting democratically to defend the interests, rights and freedoms of Kurdish citizens. And he rejects the perpetual sentence against Osman Kavala, and claims that he remains at liberty in accordance with the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 10 December 2019. [[Asking the Government about access to basic services in the rural world]] [[300-00165/13]] After this reading of the declaration of the Board of Portaveus, we move to the fourth point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on access to basic services in the rural world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. She has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Silvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.16.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, today the rural world is on the political agenda largely because of depopulation, even though, obviously, not the whole rural world is at risk of depopulation, and even though depopulation is not a new issue, it is a question that goes from the moon. In fact, it is not only at the level of Catalonia: at the level of Europe, rural exodus, urbanization, industrialisation, therefore, have followed the characteristics of the 20th century. We have a lot of tradition of studies on depopulation in Catalonia since the beginnings of the 20th century, with the geographer Pau Vila, who occupied, among others, this issue. They have a lot of data. In fact, being on the political agenda, being a question that is at the media and on the street, so we are used to seeing maps and charts that, in a certain way, allow us to take visual awareness of which is reality or which is at least a part of reality on one side of our country. Some recent data on the issue. The annual report of the Banc d'Espanya of 2020 analyses precisely, therefore, how the rural municipalities have access to worse services than the urban ones. A resident of a municipality at risk of depopulation must call thirty kilometres to the school, to the health centre or to the benzene or polysport, before the fourteen kilometres to call a resident of a rural municipality and before the two kilometres to call a resident of an urban nucleus thirty, fourteen, two. We could talk about the financial services, the digital services, which are questions that the report also examines, but they are well known. Another report of 2021 from the University of Lleida, the Nous indexs report of generational replete, places the most critical points of depopulation in Catalonia in two hundred municipalities and fifteen urban systems, and hopes that there will be urgent measures and promotion of economic diversification. And the later study I'm referring to, The Atles of the Rural World 2022, presented past scales: between the large amount of interesting and important data it provides, it talks about internet coverage and defines it as "very poor in our rural world". Virtually the whole Catalan rural world has less than 20 percent coverage with high speed connection. And another time, also from the atlas: the Catalan Prepirineu, the south of Lleida and much of the Ebre Lands have many inhabited areas from which it is more than twenty-five minutes in car to reach the capital of the region, and in many areas it is more than forty minutes per journey. Well, the effect of these data – they're just some – feeds this visual consciousness that we all have, but it can also easily lead to a consciousness, let's say, negative, to a negative view, which, together with regard to the rural world as a bucolic, as a little dynamic, as with many problems, often condemns being the face B, huh? The opposite of the urban world. And I do not mean, therefore, how these data affect the inhabitants of the rural world, since in general they consider little visible, and, if they are visible, it is only because of topical questions; it is often abandoned and misunderstood. Therefore, the first one we should do is change this view of opposition between the urban and rural worlds, we need to change this look. Therefore, we should move, let us say, from the knowledge of the situation that gives us the data to a recognition, to a recognition that the rural territories are not the periphery and must obtain the centrality that they deserve, because the development of Catalonia is very related to the rural areas, from which many of the natural, energetic and food resources come. Therefore, it would be useful to advance in a mutual knowledge in position, because the concepts..., the ideas are the ones that can accelerate the changes. I, at the level of policies, of policies which I would like to apply, therefore, should be integral. They can't push from one sector, because rurality, as you know perfectly well, has many dimensions, and the rural environment is very complex. If, for example, we look at the French rural agenda, which is the most worked, the most advanced conceptually, and also at the level of results, we see that one of the first questions that raises is actions in favour of this mutual recognition. It is also raised questions that we will have to pose on the table seriously, such as the reform of the local tax system. We will also need to reform governance, because there is in the local world a very high dependence on the higher administrations, a confusion in the skills to develop. And, in a sense of doubt, giving them a framework for cooperation, for territorial solidarity, could therefore be much more effective. In fact, the Spanish government has already announced that it will reform the law of local rule to include the state of small municipalities. In fact, a few days ago the Government of the Generalitat announced a preliminary draft of the law of the state of the rural municipalities. In addition to raising the very important question of governance, of the recognition of taxation, we also need to make sure that this rural world, which has been supplied with the world of basic services such as water, energy or food, can continue to do so and adapt to the new energy challenges that arise. And, likewise – I have already said at the beginning, and it has been talked about in this chamber on various occasions – it must also be political for the economic development that can overcome the economic monocultures that exist in many areas, economic monocultures of different types; they can be agricultural, they can be touristic, etc., but we want to focus on what we believe is the pillar system, on policies of maintenance and better public services. As you know, the Catalonian State of Autonomy establishes the right of access to public services in conditions of equality and quality, because the basic public services improve the lives of citizens, of course, but especially in rural areas, and help directly to maintain the population, despite the fact that, like public managers, we know that providing these types of services in the rural world, being smaller and more dispersed, therefore, entails a major cost per inhabitant and greater difficulty in implementing them. In short, we think that we need to establish priority intervention geographies. That is why we focus on the basic finalist services, which, as we know, as we have said, are fundamental, they are essential. If they are not ready – if they are not ready – the social and economic structures are in danger. Therefore, sanitation, public health, education, social services, care services, public transport... We come to present concrete proposals to consolidate and strengthen public services in the rural world. In the case of sanitation, for example: access to sanitation is the concern of the number or inhabitants of the rural world. And it is well known that it is an enhancement of primary care, that it is direct care to the citizen, and, consequently, a maintenance of local consultants, that it is direct care to the citizen, above all the largest and the one that cannot move, but we also have at these times an important threat, that is the lack of health professionals, certainly, throughout the system. We have to bear in mind that a recent ICS report states that, for example, the health region of the Alt Pirineu and Aran by 2023 will lack 72,4_per_cent of the doctors. Moreover, in small centres, only when there is a vacancy, it seriously compromises the performance of the public service. I hope to continue, Counselor, in the turn of reply. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.17.0	And, then, has the word Ms. Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Too late to all and so to all. Mrs Romero, thank you for your question. In fact, that today your parliamentary group has again put the focus on public policies in the rural world sense doubt, if I may, evidence the importance of continuing to work both for territorial balance and for social cohesion in our country. And I'd like to put it back down because, let's remember – and that's very nice, huh? Why didn't I find myself in last year's legislature, huh? In this case, yes – the Parliamentary Group of the Republica has also done this a few weeks ago, and the Parliamentary Group of the Republica Esquerra has also done this on various occasions..., in fact, two days ago, this said, there will also be a specific motion from the Republican Group on the country's rural agenda. And so I begin, if I may, because I must say that, inevitably, in my intervention, I have to make a precise reference to the rural agenda of Catalonia, even though I will also focus on other issues. Again, I'm going to talk a little bit about the rural agenda, because, you know, it's for us, and I understand that for all of you who are with me in this room today, the instrument from which this government will work and will do it in a transversal way – you were talking about it a moment ago –... as you have to work transversally for the rural world. Because, to be sure, it's an aggregate element from which we will foster, vertebrate and develop a strategy, a strategy that, to be sure, must be absolutely coordinated and necessary among all the levels of administration – very important – but also social, to guarantee precisely the repte, what we are looking for, huh? , which is this territorial balance and ending the hardships – which you mentioned them – that plagues the rural world. And, in this sense, I think it is necessary, but also prudent, and, if I may, respectfully, also expect the imminent approval of a document that, as I have already advanced, will be completed at the end of this May. I believe that, taking into account the success of his participation in his work, which has been a great one, which has been quite different – which I have also explained in his Parliament – and which has been built among all, especially those who live and work in the rural world, will be a document that we will have to take into account at the time of guiding the policies present and also of the future and that we will have to reach the end of May. Now, I have to say that, obviously, while this government is working for the territorial balance and also for the social cohesion of this country. We have had various occasions to talk, both in this Chamber and outside, about, as I said, the rural agenda: what is the objective you are pursuing, with whom we have done it, etc. In fact, I know that a few days ago, so they were also meeting with the drafting committee and the secretary, in this case, of Rural Agenda, sharing impressions. Now, as you know, we already have a proposal, and soon, as I said, at the end of this May, the government will do its thing – and I hope that Parliament will, of course – and we will already have this document, this white paper, if I may, this guide to the rural agenda. That said, and as you know, that we are hoping to approve, obviously, the conclusions of this rural agenda does not mean that some of this government, so we are not pushing others, public policies, as you very well ask, and actions that facilitate access to basic services in the rural world. There are policies that are already going to end, huh? , as, for example, this government commitment with people who live and work in these territories. I won't mention a few, in the short time that we have, considering that this is an inquiry, and, if I may, I'll do a little like a government spokesman, huh? , because in the end it's such a cross-cutting theme that it doesn't just occupy the department that I have the honor of captivating. Look – he made reference to it, too, huh? – also from the Department of the Presidency we have already begun to draft the preliminary draft law on rural municipalities. What are we gonna do with this? Or what do we intend to achieve with this? Therefore the possibility to grant a special status to the municipality, in this case, rural, so that they can adapt it to their needs, to their particularities – which is obviously not there – and give answers to the requests and needs of its inhabitants. In this sense, a working group has been set up for the drafting of the text formed for all the municipalist entities– in fact, the same ones that have led the rural agenda in some way, in this case – the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia – which is also here – and the Association of Micropopulations, in addition to more of the other platforms that have come out of this demand that the territory has, like them for rural repopulation, and the departments, obviously, of Climate Action and also of Digital Policies and Territories. Secondly, the Government also promotes the proposition of state law to guarantee, in this case, the service of the automatic cashier in the municipalities at risk of financing exclusion. And what do they want with this? So one thing as basic and simple as guaranteeing a minimum of banking services to the citizenry and also reducing, if I may, the exclusion and vulnerability to finance. As the Economics and History Advisor presented, the text seeks to regulate the voluntary installation of the boxes by entities and also provides for the installation – in this case, mandatory – if it is not covering the needs they consider. Another example: from the Health Department, which you also refer to, to the very important health policies. In this sense, a programme of incentives has already been set aside for us residents of the family medicine and community medicine and infirmary, in this case, of mental health, to integrate into the places of the teaching units accredited to our country. A programme, in short, which they claim is to favour these two specialties, to attract and retain talent – also very important – but also to contribute, if I may, unequivocally, to the promotion of territorial equity. Fourth place, from the Department of Education. In this case, the eighty per cent of the investment necessary for the construction of rural schools has been assumed, ensuring, therefore, that there is no need to close, huh? I will not be the one to explain the importance of the schools to the territories, in our peoples... in the rural world in short. It is obvious that in this way we guarantee the continuity of the seventy-five rural schools existing today, while also facilitating the creation of nine schools. This contribution by the Generalitat, of this eighty_per_cent that it gave, of the cost, supposes that the joints, in this case, will only have to contribute five_ thousand euros per course in order to have an integrated school in the rural school of its municipality. By this measure, therefore, the Government guarantees equal opportunities in the context of the territory to work for southern Catalonia, so as not to leave no gaps in territory without the public service. Since the Department of Enterprise and Work, and in the framework of the rural agenda, a number of commitments have also been made in respect of the rural world. However, more than commitments to meet existing challenges, they are already pushing themselves at these moments of action that seek, for example, to adapt the technical requirements of the calls – in this case, of the SOC – to the needs and opportunities of the municipalities of rural areas. This is very important: that we continue to make calls to adjust to the reality, obviously, of the territory. And also strengthen the program, in this case, also from the point of view of the department, so..., the program of ateneus cooperative to promote – very important – the economy, in this case, social and solidary, as a lever, if I may, as a lever of change for an economy for life – very important. And another example of what he does to police security, which is also important, to deal with security issues generated in the primary sector, for example. He knows there's robbing... in fact, we find a little bit of everything in the primary sector. So, in this case, a specific operational programme has also been implemented for the rural world. The goal is to prevent and reduce the crime of the most incidence that is given and repeated in rural areas, as well as to increase relations with the primary sector and increase the perception of security, perception..., not just perception, but in the end, of truth, security, huh? Thus, and also in the jurisdictional framework of the Department of Interior, it seems important to highlight..., it also seems important to highlight the reinforcement of the volunteer bomber parks present in the rural area, with significant increases also in their endowments. In conclusion, from the government, but also – and I think it is fair to recognize it – from the gatherings – because the gatherings do a lot of work, of course that many times with very few resources – these gatherings that serve from the reality closest to the comings and comings that they see and work in these municipalities, we are already working to ensure the access and quality of public services to the rural world. I'm done, huh? In this sense, therefore, I reiterate the will of this rural agenda which I have just managed to achieve – let me say so – rurality at the centre of all the country's policies, of all the government's policies, as you said a moment ago, and which you do, as it cannot otherwise be justly, in an equal manner and, above all, coordinated with all the parties. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.19.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.20.0	Thank you, President. Well, she will have to agree with us that it is important to talk about the rural world, as it is also important to act and to carry out, therefore, policies to try to deal with the difficulties with which it finds itself. We talked about how the availability of basic public services influences the fixation or population loss, and we started to list a few of them. We're talking about sanitation. So, effectively, the lack of health professionals, doctors and nurses..., are developing, in the health region of the Upper Pirinaeus, for example, a series of plans with an emphasis on trying to deal with these absolutely alarming data, as well as covering the lack of specialists in district hospitals. But this threat, unfortunately, is already a reality in many rural areas: the basic area of Grenadella's salvation, to the Garrigues, which includes eight people, has lost half of the jobs by retirement; to the Upper Earth's primary team – twelve people – is jubilant half of the jobs; to the various CAPs of Noguera the lack of the jobs by retirement forces the allocation of tasks between the faculties in action, situations that are repeated in the rural world, at these times. Therefore, they call specific measures, therefore, of family medicine and specialities, as we say. In the education plan, you spoke of the schools of Bressol, of the seventy-five schools of Bressol in the rural world. Well, for an inclusive and quality school, more teaching resources are needed, and more psychopedagogs are needed to help overcome what the pandemic has caused in our children and adolescents, and so also to manage every time more diverse classrooms we have at our school. This certainly needs the whole system, the whole of Catalonia, but it gives the circumstance that, as in the case of health personnel, many educational centres in rural areas are qualified as places with difficult coverage, and often there are no teachers to attend to these schools. In addition, in case it is found, it is characterized by the highest interity. Therefore, it would be useful to look for formulas, as is already done in other territories, because these professional ones or have a higher barrage for services borrowed or have contracts, for example, for three years than in guaranteeing continuity. That is to say, we cannot treat it as it is treated to the rest of the system, because the situation is specific and presents a particular problem. And we are no longer talking, therefore, about reviewing the minimum rates of students to keep an open rural school or the eternal problem of transportation and eating in aggregate clusters without school. We could also talk about social services and care. In the rural world it is necessary to have specific services for people dependent on rural territories. We are expanding residential resources for abused people or people with severe mental illness. We have more residential and day-care places in a rural world, so we are more enveloped than the rest. I, to do some brushing on another basic service such as public transport – mobility, therefore –, the territorial force of Catalonia is found outside the integrated tariff system: Terres de l'Ebre, Alt Pirineu and Aran, part of Central Catalonia, gironine comarques. Do you know how much it costs to come from Tremp to Barcelona by bus? Twenty-six euros. Four hours of travel, and I'm not talking to you about frequencies. The Alt Pirineu and Aran do not have territorial authority to mobilize, nor do they have a board of directors of mobility. In the case of Hebrew, it's been a few years since it's been written and waiting for it. We need better transport services and investment in rail mobility where possible. Finish it. The problem of the rural world is, of course, European and common. That is why the European Union has placed the democratic front in the planning of the future of democracy, because providing all territories with public services is to treat the citizens equally. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.21.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the word Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.22.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Romero. Jo today I feel especially happy, huh? , because I see that maybe we'll get out of it, because I buy absolutely everything, absolutely everything you've said. These are the needs and the reality of the rural world, which has always existed and which is also to say that, for the reasons that follow, also for this disaffection of the rural world with the urban world, therefore, obviously, the sense of doubt has been lost to servants and has been lost to quality. And many times it has not been able to seduce, precisely because we have not been able to captivate, neither from the administration and from the very citizenship of the rural world, to give it the feeling or to give the answer really..., that has the rural world and the work that the rural world does, eh? The demográfic repte is from the table. And in our sense of doubt, ever since our function, we can do nothing but work for equal opportunities. And our country doesn't escape – Europe neither, you said –..., the democratic challenge in this sense is very important and is on the order of the day, but it is also true that the rural world is on the political agenda today, eh? And, obviously, not only because this department and the government are not concerned and concerned, but also, as I said before, because it is concerned and now it is dealing with most of the parliamentary groups in this hemisphere, which, in a sense of doubt... we have to do folds, because we are talking about our country, in short, and also about the rural world. It's a question, too, that goes from far away – you said it – and it's true that we have a lot of reports. That is, in the end, the diagnosis we all know, and I am convinced that, with some morning, we share it; surely, at the time of prioritization..., we might prioritize some before and some others by prioritizing others, but in any case, it is obvious that the diagnosis we share – you have talked about it. It's important to keep the data. The last ones are being updated. Just last week we were going to present the Atles del mondo rurale to your ACM. If we don't have data, it's hard for us to detect exactly what the problems are. And I think we need to do it in a very surgical way, because at the end of the day the country, despite being very big, is small, and we can, among all of them, be able to detect each of the specificities in each of the territories. I think we have two ways: one is the rural agenda, without any doubt, which detects, because it is also not the interdepartmental vocation – of all the departments – respects the needs of the territory, but we have another which is very important, which is the law of the rural municipalities, which, as you know, we already have..., we are in the foreground. And there's work, but this has to be a reality the year you see, no doubt. And it will allow us, precisely, one of the things that you posed today as a manifesto, and it is that, in the end, there are particularities. Sometimes we are not able to cover specific places because there is a difficult connectivity or because access is not viable or because the person who would like to move around 'there, therefore, does not have a school service for his or her child or there is no institute for or, quite simply, there is no primary care centre, is there? And all this obviously makes it difficult and short of equal opportunities. With the law of rural municipalities, there's no doubt, and the rural agenda on the side and in parallel, I'm convinced that we're all going to be saving this. Catalonia is a diverse country. In fact, 947 municipalities, and more than half of these have fewer than a thousand inhabitants. That's the reality. That is to say, there is a population imbalance which is a reality and which is an evidence: few municipalities concentrate a very high percentage of the population, and, at the same time, a large extension of territories, in this case, has a very low population density. And let's play with a theme that you have made reference to and that we have to work from the Administration, but we also have to do as citizens and citizens all. The rural agenda – I've already explained it a thousand times, and you know it perfectly and you share it – is not the country's agricultural agenda. One thing is the agricultural agenda and the other thing is the rural agenda, obviously. Not everyone who saw the territory has paid or paid, but it is true that in the rural world there are many pages and there are many pages. And this, in the end, is a reality, obviously, that no one gets away. Carla Simon paid homage to the page, didn't she? , before a very..., predominantly urban society. These days the film has already arrived in Barcelona. But I think, in any case, society in general, which, if I may, is a small mass of trust... a small mass of trust and sometimes a small mass of carelessness, for the subject I'm going to tell you now, huh? , basically for the responsibility of decisions respect their food... And those who provide food to our country – the good, the safe, the quality – are our pages and our pages. I am sure that with these elements, with these instruments and with the concern of this Parliament, and, obviously, also, in the end, with a picture of the landscape and reality, such as the movie Alcarrás, folds and folds we will get out of it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.23.0	Let us move on to the fifth item of the agenda, the question to the Government about the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. [[Ask the Government about the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action]] [[300-00166/13]] And he has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.24.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members, Counsellor... From the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia, we have a huge responsibility to present today an inquiry regarding the conservation of the environment and our natural environment. An inquiry and motion that has two main objectives. First, to highlight and expose the damage caused to workers, small businesses and families caused by the green religion that you all promote. Secondly, to present to the Catalans a real alternative to a climate hysterism represented and promoted by the whole parliamentary arc present here, except VOX ; an alternative that understands that the love for nature and the desire to preserve the and transmit the improvement is perfectly compatible with respect for the quality of life of people, economic development and traditional forms of life. Good. Let's start with the first thing. Madam Counsellor, your ecological policies... your climate fanaticism is a harmful interference in all areas of people's lives: in the family economy, in taxation, in consumption, in SMEs, in studies... They subject families and businesses to a veritable green fiscal hell. To the more than 300 million environmental tax collections, local taxes and indirect green collection must be added by means of tax schemes, sanctions and fines of different types. Above all, they have little decency to announce, in the midst of the social emergency we are experiencing, a rise in taxes on nuclear and gas companies, which will ultimately impact upwards on the electricity and gas bill of the families and companies in our region. You are experts in creating energy poverty. They speak of transition, yes, but of direct transition to the abyss of ruin and misery, while their friends fill their pockets at the cost of green fiscal hell. Its fiscal and regulatory policy destroys our competitiveness, expels local companies to third countries, curbs domestic and foreign investment, and deprives us of many opportunities for industrial development. Its measures are clearly anti-industry and anti-employment. While you continue to think about how to put the boot on top of the neck of transporters and the vehicle industry, the seventy-five percent of the Catalan car industry is at risk of extinction and many workers do not know how to change their vehicle of work that you say you can no longer drive. They repudiate the life habits of Catalan families. Within their educational and consumption strategies, they do not cease in their attempt at green indoctrination. For example, while members of the Government do not save on expenses on trips abroad, they want to make us feel guilty about flying or using our car daily. They criminalize our primary sector and its models of local and traditional production. Without going further, Catalonia's strategic food plan envisages the objectives of increasing the production of food from sustainable production models by 25 %. In addition, they set as a challenge to reduce and replace ten_per_cent of traditional animal proteins. Counselor, listen to the people in the field. I quote literally the words of anguish and desperation of Catalan meat associations: "We need clear and explicit support in the face of the campaigns against livestock, livestock and meat production. Unfortunately, these words will fall into a broken sack before a Generalitat hypnotized and fanatized by the green religion. They squander money from Catalans and water green lobbies and chiringuitos focused on the 2030 agenda. Just counting the expenditure of the Advisory Council for Sustainable Development and part of the climate funds, we would add more than EUR 100 million, which could go perfectly to boost our industry and to attend to the social and material emergencies of Catalan families and businesses. Meanwhile, the mouth is filled with renewable energy, but Catalonia is the most complicated territory in Spain to install this type of energy, and the worst in Europe. These are not our words, but one of the most important associations in Spain in renewable energy, which groups more than ninety_per_cent of the photovoltaic sector. In addition, despite their attempt to give us a cat for hare, their policies destroy what they intend to take care of. Its measures are particularly harmful to the environment and our natural environment. The European Commission already regards nuclear energy as green and fundamental to achieving the efficient decarbonisation process of our economies and ways of life. When do you plan to do the same? Or is his fanaticism not allowed? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the whole plenary session could be showing how the government's climate policies are ruining the well-being of Catalan families and businesses. But why is all this happening? Where do these policies come from that destroy the day - to - day lives of individuals and businesses? Very simple. They come in their way of understanding ecology: you defend and promote the ecology of fear, moralistic ecology and persecuting ecology. The ecologicalism of fear, because they are unable to motivate citizens to worry about the environment without using the resource of alarmist fear to which we are accustomed. Moralistic ecology, because, as in all cheap moralism, it is more important to appear than to be. You really don't care about the environment; the proof is that when you make constant allusions to the ecological transition, you actually refer to the theft of huge amounts of money from the middle and working classes to fill the pockets of regional, national and global elites. [[applause]] that drive the climate agenda. Persecuting ecology, because they pursue, demonize our farmers, farmers, fishermen and workers in Catalonia. They despise and ridicule the way of life of the most disadvantaged families and expel anyone who dares to challenge their totalitarian consensus from public and professional life. Well, honourable Members, in the face of this analysis, the proposals and alternatives that we will present in the following motion will be based on the following principles: in the face of your climate hysteria, our climate realism; in the face of your anti-democratic solutions from far away and taken by international bureaucrats, our solutions from below to above, based on local reality, rooted in the daily life of people who truly know the problem, the people of the countryside; in the face of their ecologicalism of apocalyptic fear, our patriotic desire to preserve our natural heritage and to transmit it, improved, to our children and grandchildren; in the face of their moralist capitalism, our economic prosperity, based on respect for the free market and private property in combination with our conservationism, based on love for our land. Finally, in the face of their delusions, dogmas and ecological transitions, our common sense; in the face of their consensus, our dissent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.25.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.26.0	Thank you, President. If I may, Mr López, after this thorough and rigorous analysis... In fact, you said: "I would need it all late. I'm already saying no, because in two minutes it's been repeated three hundred times; he hasn't said anything more. [[applause]] That's the first sentence you've said. This, from the front door. Miri, I would like to begin the first intervention by responding directly to the title of this inquiry. Deia: "interpellation to the Government on the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action. So look, listen, after feeling it, I'm going to see one thing: God-in-law, how good we are; God-in-law, how good we are, then, obviously, to listen to you. And I remember that, by luck, the climate change is not just about the government and most of the groups that are in this hemisphere, it's about the north percent of this country's society. Therefore, know that we do not stop working, we do not stop working to make more, of policies, basically to mitigate the climate change, and, obviously, also to adapt - there, because we know that the repte is global and we have, sense of doubt, the conviction that Catalonia must bring its degree of smile. And if he's worried that someone can stay back, he's already ahead of the ecological transition, or it'll be fair or it won't be. And this is the concern, among other things, also of this department: that no one, obviously, stayed back. I am now directing this to the climate fanatics who may be listening to me. The Panel of Experts of the United Nations on Climate Change presented in the end of February another report that draws, i.e., a panorama, therefore, desolating force. The last thing I had done, I had done almost a decade – eight years, to be more concrete – and they recognize that the speed and damage that is causing the climate crisis are worse than they expected. In Europe, more than a third of the population will even suffer, with a two-degree scalding, and more than 3,000_million people around the world will be affected. Floods will increase in frequency, but not only in frequency, they will also increase in intensity. And with a three-degree scalding will obviously affect twice as many people today. There will be large population displacements – in terms of an estona –, large migrations, and also loss of land surface due to the rise of the sea level, which will affect more than 150_million people – only – to the Mediterranean. And I remind you that we are in the Mediterranean. It will also produce a major loss of colitis for the reduction, obviously, of precipitation and water squandering to the Mediterranean, and, obviously, productivity will fall – a disset_per_cent. And that's to say, if I'm looking for productivity and population growth... so I see a problem here, and a very hard problem. There'll be more deaths from heat waves. It will triple the scalding, basically, if it triples the scalding and raises the temperature three degrees, in place of one degree and a half. And fire risks, too, huh? The increase in emissions associated with, obviously, global warming..., so it will increase by thirty_per_cent. And that means we'll have more fire risk than our woods, obviously, or we'll manage them well or, obviously, what they'll do is adapt to the climate change situation. And the only way, if we don't manage them, is... to believe. This is the stage. It's back then, it's true. It's especially worrying, too. And especially around the Mediterranean and our home, in Catalonia, where one of the key elements, sense of doubt, is water, huh? , which will be clearly affected by the warming, we say, global and, obviously, the effects of this climate emergence. Scientists match, huh? Not in your diagnosis, but in yours, huh? That's a lot, huh? Scientists, all of them. The situation on the planet is worrying and urgent. In fact, if we were to complete all the commitments, we'd take a 2.9 degree scalding, but the maximum scalding that would be tolerable and absorbable wouldn't have to exceed that degree and half that I gave it before, huh? In this case, for example, the Paris Agreement. Also, and despite this demolishing diagnosis, the good news is that we're still in time, obviously we're in time. We are in time to put an end to the stage of a dystopia with which this report is written and which we certainly do not want for ourselves nor do we want, I mean, for our children. Because this, Mr. Lopez, is about salvation and life, and the information that you, that you are not an ecological historian, also living on this planet, is about to affect you as well. The consequences, in any case, of not facing this reality, Mr. MP, let's say that they are hard – they are hard. The consequences of not doing anything about demolishing data is basically giving up, and this is an act that is not only selfish, but extremely irresponsible. It's not thinking, either, about the future that we leave to the new generations. The way to deal with the climate crisis isn't new, huh? They call for commitments, they call for international commitments, they call for ambitious commitments, and above all, they call for urgent action to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and recover these ecosystems. We have to work, therefore, to recover this balance and, above all, the sustainability of anthropogenic action on our environment, huh? We need to compromise and take urgent action to get a planet better known. We also need to protect and restore ecosystems from which global balance lies, without ever losing sight of the interdependence, in this case, between climate, biodiversity and humanity. And as we know that the reality we know today will change tomorrow, before the climate emergency we have no choice but to act. It is undeniable that the ecological crisis in which we find ourselves is difficult – I have said it for the first time, and I will say it the times you need – and it is also profound, and we do not have time to lose, but in all this transition we must absolutely accompany everyone. We have to mitigate it and we have to adapt. In fact, the mitigation, huh? , all the anthropogenic intervention, which aims to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or improve the ability of systems to mislead and adapt there..., because this is the reality, and we must be able to live, surely, and do things in another way. Then, in the final part, if you want, we'll talk about agriculture too, because it plays a very important role. Look, I'll give you some example of what we've done with the climate fund, huh? , CO2 tax. Three very quick examples. First: a new fire prevention plan for the years 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025, 60 million euros, plus somewhere that has come to us from Europe, almost 80 million euros to prepare for this period the forests of our country. I don't know if you know, I'll give you a given – that's strict, huh? I mean, it's not an opinion, that's an information – that's that in this country we have a sixty-four percent forest, huh? So what we're doing is we're preparing these woods basically for the climate emergency and the sesena-generation fires. Gare 6_million euros to modernize the radar network of the meteorological service of our country. We'll put her up to date. It's important to anticipate those extreme episodes that we don't know, that they don't have precedents and that there could be plenty of examples, huh? I don't know if it sounds like DANA, I don't know if it sounds like Gloria, I don't know if it sounds like Filomena... I don't know if it doesn't even make our country, our whole country, but a lot of focus also on the Lleida area, it went through a cold without precedents, five days followed with brutal temperatures, with more than six so-called zero. This is also the climate change. And I'm done. Last week we made a balance of the six-month term of the renewables decree. So look, we went from sixty megawatts of public information on June 21– that was last year, when we took over the competitions– to over 1,200 megawatts. In one year we have multiplied by three the average of monthly self-consumption installations processed, and we have multiplied the monthly power processed practically by two. The first quarter of the 22nd was closed with more than 25,500 self-consumption installations in our country, with a total installed power of more than two hundred megawatts. We've doubled the total number of self-consumption installations in our country in so many new months, and we've totaled eighty megawatts over the hundred and twenty stories we had until June of the 21st. These are only – only – some of the data we could give him. You already know we won't convince them. This is not my intention either; in fact, I will not spend a second, if this second I have to lose to pursue courageous policies in favor of the issue we are dealing with today. But let me tell you: it really seems like they're living on another planet, it seems like they're living an absolutely parallel reality, you do. And I repeat it, Mr. Lopez: know that you like it more or you like it less, to us..., I don't like it better, eh? But we share the same planet and share the same country, and the same reality. And I say this again: this is my life, my life, the life of his successors, but also his. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.27.0	In the replica round, has the word deputy Ramon López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.28.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you say if the Glory, the Philomena... sounds to me; yes, they do. The truth is that through a PR we have demanded your payment in the Committee on Agriculture, and all the groups voted against it. [[Some applause.]] Then he says the crops will be reduced. You want me to tell you why? Because the paupers will have to leave the camp. And you know why? You met with fruit representatives four days ago in Lérida to assess the damage of the frost a few weeks ago. My question is whether it will take as much to collect as the Filomena, which have been almost a year and a half, and have not yet charged. They also have bills to pay, and if they can't, they'll have to leave the fields. Having said that, his statements have made it clear that the left and the globalist agendas use our fields, our mountains, our rivers and the air we breathe to extract political revenue, profit at the expense of our workers and entrepreneurs and impose on us all a single way of understanding our relationship with nature. An example of this is the new chiringuitos that want to ride at the cost of Catalans, such as the Catalan agency for nature or the territorial plan of renewables that they have presented. You call us... that we're negatists. No, we're not negatists. They're accusing us of climate negators. But you are indeed negators: of reality – of reality. True negationism consists in seeing reality with its ideological filter and denying solutions that move away from its totalitarian postulates. Anyway, go on with your weather hysteria, which no one believes anymore. We will remain concerned and busy with the reality that Catalans face every day, and rest assured that, sooner or later, we will recover Catalonia for the great national project that is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.29.0	And there's the word, in the turn of the line, Counselor Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.30.0	You said it started late, didn't you? You see, it couldn't last very long, that. Look, I don't know if you're negating or scientific, what I'm going to tell you clearly is that you're irresponsible from the first letter to the last. That's what I'm saying. [[Greetings.]] And, look, when you say that climate change is ideology, it's separatism, it's totalitarianism – I don't know, because they say everything – we say it too, huh? , that we reaffirm ourselves absolutely even more in aligning all, all energy policies with those of prevention of the natural environment, above all focusing on the transition to renewable energies. I assure you of that. When you talk about green religion or ecological delusions, so look at it, too, you confirm in a felicitous way, no doubt, that we are not wrong in our firm commitment to implementing the green economy as a lever for climate action. Mr. Lopez, we will continue, we will continue to work tirelessly. And we will do so in order to ensure the conservation of biodiversity, that in the last few years we have lost around twenty-five percent, but also in the conservation of the natural environment, while you try to ridicule us, somehow, talking about hysterical environmentalism and all these adjectives, which means that someone is original, but little else. Because, despite his sound and despite his lies, we want us, sense of doubt, to manage water. Yeah, we wanted to manage it. We want to manage it taking into account the forecasts of its future availability, because resources are scarce; in fact, they are finished. And we want to do so with strict criteria, with specific criteria for the conques of our country, for the Catalan conques. We want to get there – I'm also telling you not to have a hysterism attack – at zero residue. Do you understand? This is also our vocation: to reach the zero residue; through the promotion of something that is called circular economy. Because the economy this linear, Mr. Lopez, has already passed to better life or has lived or exists on your planet. The repte is huge, huh? But we've come to transform. We've said it a thousand times and we'll say it a thousand times more and we'll obviously prove it with the facts. So I can assure you that, despite your assurance of our commitment to make the green transition that this country needs sense of doubt is total. And let me tell you another thing that respects the theme of our pages, ramaders, fishers in the primary sector..., which I am glad that you know that I have obviously gathered there – as I usually do; I gather there every week, sense no doubt, and we speak every week–, fruit of the frosts of these last few days. Look, the climate in our pages – which, as you know, have to look at the cell every day–, so it brings risks – many risks, every time more –; including risks that even a system of insurance does not foresee, because basically things have changed and badly they do it quickly and, if we don't watch these changes, they will still evolve faster. Well, I'm going back to referring to Alcarrás' film, which, as I don't know on which planet he saw, I don't know if he saw it. It's a movie that won the Berlinale and that its director is said to be Carla, in this case. So Carla photographed, in this film, many of the landscapes that these days have suffered from one of the frosts, I say, almost unknown, because I think it didn't freeze like this... it had never frosted like this for five days in a row. And she, in this masterful work of art, photographed them, huh? Unprecedented ice cream. The losses of the colitis fruit of these frosts, to which we will give answer, as it cannot otherwise be, have been catastrophic; also without precedents. The cold, the heat, the wind, the rain, the same, the various plagues, the diseases of the plants, the illnesses of the animals too are the fantasies that accompany our pagesia. In our pages they also accompany these fantasies. It is to say, that mitigate the climate change, that adapt us and that make policies for this green transition, in the final analysis of the ecological transition, that goes from salvation and life to my and your planet, also – also – sense of doubt, serves and it is to accompany our pages, in the final analysis, those that you and I also produce food for us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.31.0	Let us now turn to the sixth item of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the balance of a year of bad governance; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Asking the Government about the balance of a year of bad governance]] [[300-00167/13]] It has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.32.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, we have been with the government of President Aragonès for a year now and, to be honest, the balance sheet we believe is that of a bad government and that of a continuous loss of opportunities for Catalonia. We have had inaction – absolute inaction –, have deviated from the priorities that really matter to the citizenry, the money is still being wasted, and the result, after this year of government, is that the division in the citizenship that really existed persists when Mr Aragonès arrived to the government, has accentuated the fatigue and distrust towards the political class in Catalonia, has continued to lose economic push and, of course, has accentuated the national and international bad image of Catalonia, lately with the news, moreover, that the one who was president of the Generalitat, before declaring independence has met with Putin's emissaries for shame and indignation of all of us. And it won't be because it's not urgent to get to work in Catalonia. There's a lot to do on our land – a lot. We must close the social divide that began independence; we must regain the confidence lost by the citizens; we must take care of the most pressing problems, inflation, the price of supplies, housing, their lack of need, security problems, and, of course, health problems that we were already dragging, which were coming from afar, but which were accentuated after the crisis of the covid. And, to do so, the first thing to do is to govern for everyone and with a sense of reality, and to recover, to try to recover internally and externally the bad image, the image that generates depression and distrust, of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, both internally and externally. You, of course, have caused many problems for Catalan society since you embarked on this adventure. After the coup to democracy, then, we have known that you have continued with an external action that has been truly disloyal to the general interests of Spain, but that it has also not given us Catalans any kind of economic or property advantage. They have only tried to sell the process abroad, not to sell the Catalan companies and culture. And, in addition, we have now become entangled with the « Catalanfake, which has generated us again a new hamster wheel. Now again the great problem of Catalonia is not the problems of the Catalans, but to you... you have made a report on a part with a university that you have sought, and you have made a report for you and for you. And yes, on the part of the government, unconsciously, the actions carried out by the CNI have been recognized by investigating, of course, in the time of the Tsunami Democrátic, with very serious disturbances by those who had promoted a coup against democracy..., because they had promoted, of course, as we suppose and as we have always held, actions that are the same that would affect any other democratic country that is surrounded by an ultra-nationalist and ultra-populist movement like the one you have been leading. It is regrettable to see how the outcome of all the braveries to which you submit to the Government of Spain is that, in the end, the head of the director of the CNI is served to you on a tray, after you are given entry into the commission of secrets and leave..., it is time to cascade it to Mr. Rufián, which, by the way, my party has already made known to the Prosecutor's Office. And we've had to endure everything, until Mr. Junqueras, convicted of sedition and embezzlement, says we're here to help if responsibilities are taken over and it doesn't happen again. I do not know, you are really subjecting all Spanish society and also Catalan society to perpetual blackmail. How are we going to make progress on this earth? How are we going to move forward if you, after delinquent, after cheating, after embezzling the money, after cheating all your people, are looking for a perpetual confrontation with the Government of Spain and with more than half of the Catalan population? When it comes to dialogue, Madam Vice President... [[The timer laughs.]] No, Mrs. Vilagrà – I'm sorry. Mrs Vilagrà, when you ask for dialogue – that what you are asking for is blackmail – and Mr Illa also says "no, dialogue between Catalans, also between Catalans, I would almost urge you to talk to each other, to talk to the independenceists themselves, to convince those hyperventilated to whom you put the fan to the maximum that you were wrong. The first thing we would have to have in Catalonia, to start entering a new path with a truly productive government, is for you, from separatism, to clarify yourselves. That would be the first thing. And then take care of the economy. The main thing to be able to distribute resources in a country and that the most disadvantaged people do not stay in the gutter is to create wealth, and then distribute it. Therefore, the first thing you should do is take off clearly from the strategy of decline. That is, you have partners – both the commons and the CUP – who advocate for decline, when decline, as everyone knows, means, therefore, more unemployment, it means worse wages and it means more precarious contracts. You must return; you must have a plan to attract all the companies that have fled Catalonia; you must lower taxes and make Catalans not the ones we pay the most. And when you say this, don't do that of 'oh, it's that Madrid does tax dumping. Before Madrid stole from us, but in general, it is now that it takes advantage of capitality, and when it does not, it is that it causes fiscal dumping. Anything but admit that you're misadministered. Because if you left the money of the citizens in the pockets of the citizens, that would surely generate more investment, more wealth, and at the end more tax collection, which is nothing more or less what is happening in Madrid. But of course, if the Catalan administration is a faceless and ineffective slab that falls on the backs of taxpayers, who only pay money and get bad services, then we do have a problem. And listen, Mrs Vilagrà, this is perceived by all Catalans, by the vast majority of Catalans. An ineffective administration; that you spend the money, for example, in an external action..., that I would propose – and we will do that in the motion – that all government delegations, except Brussels, close and keep the economic offices; but that is so, with transparency. There are other autonomous communities – Andalusia, for example – that have economic offices abroad and that promote export and business. That's what they should be doing. But you're opaque because you don't do that, you create chiringuitos on the outside. Please disauthorize – and I think this is urgent too – the assembly that Mr Puigdemont has made at the Council of the Republic, which has mounted a sort of parallel ministry of foreign affairs; that, by the way, I am convinced that he is stealing from us, I am convinced that Mr Puigdemont is stealing from us, because he certainly does not pay for those trips from his pocket – surely not. Who pays them? On the day that the tentacles of financing independence and Mr Puigdemont abroad are put in evidence, it seems to me that many veils will fall to many people who do not imagine what you are doing with the money of all of us. I told him to reform this ineffective administration. The first thing to do is to reduce bureaucracy. Look, in this..., and I'm going to finish with this and then we'll follow the next five_minutes. President Aragonès was at the Cercle d'Economia forum, and he talked about these issues, about reducing bureaucracy and so on. He seemed to have ideas, but he didn't say anything about how to carry them out – he didn't say anything. And, of course, if you spend your days talking about things..., spying, I don't know what, but you don't put a thread in the needle. I will tell you: in the Andalusian community, during the government, which we have been..., of Citizens in the government, three decrees have been made with five hundred measures to reduce bureaucracy, and a single business window has been made. It's possible to do that. They explained to me how. They made contact with municipalities from their autonomous community and made it easier for any company that wanted to establish itself in a municipality to have a project manager to facilitate and shorten the deadlines until the reality of the investment became effective. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.33.0	Now has the word, in the turn of the answer, the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.34.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congressman, well, you've asked me a question about bad government. In any case, his speech, as usual, has been exaggerated, catastrophic and obviously lacking in all credibility. Did it ring a bell at "Piove"? Pork government! That Italian aphorism through which anything that doesn't turn out well is the fault of the government and even the fact that it doesn't. Well, in any case, I will turn yours completely, let's say, parliament, in the sense of speaking of good government, in the sense that, in fact, the good government does not generate headlines, it does not serve because you come here to Parliament with posters or fill the hemicicle of nationalist propaganda, but, in turn, it does serve the citizenry. And in the end, if you still don't remember, what you're here for, that's exactly why, to achieve, therefore, that in Catalonia we have a good government and encourage interesting initiatives. As I understand it, the number of complex problems we face governments has increased exponentially. In fact, it is evident in the content of the political agendas that we have on the table, with its complexity or also with the complexity of its implementation. There has also been an increase in the number of actors who are recognised as legitimate to intervene in the public sphere – by luck, I would say. There are also more complex forms of governance in networks, co-production of public policies, and this forces us to constantly seek innovation. And that's not what I'm saying; all these criteria express Francisco Longo or Albareda – they're public administration theorists at our house. So, effectively, governance is much more complex. And, in this sense, trust is one of the critical factors among actors in the political arena. In fact, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has determined that good governance and good administration cannot exist in societies or democratic institutions or in the making of decisions if they are not transparent. Therefore, political representatives must be subject to responsibilities and obliged to account for it. And it is also our responsibility, in the end, to promote and respect the set of fundamental rights. In this sense, good administration, which is what the Government of the Generality does, goes through laws of public office that guarantee professionalism; the depoliticization of administrations; laws of internal and external financial controls, that ensure good use of public services and the responsibilities that go ahead; laws that effectively protect people who report irregularities or corrupt practices. And that's exactly what the generality is doing: we're legislating in this sense. And so you will find laws like public employment, or laws like Public Administration School, to make our public service, our workers, have a better education, a better promotion of their talent, but also that we are able to develop codes of conduct or codes of ethics. That's what we do. Therefore, we need, effectively, creativity, intuition, innovation, resilience. And so we practice it to our government, despite the difficulties, uncertainties, complexity; despite the fact that you agree to live by the controversy and the judicialization of politics. And I think they're doing you a little favor, in fact, to yourselves and to the city council. If we stick to this logic... in fact, we don't act for beliefs, for topics or for headlines or some tweet, like you, but what we do is just the opposite. We want to work based on the data systematization, which is to deal with them and manage them and also make them public to everyone's abst. That's why we work with open data to promote the civic participation of all those organized collectivities, because we have everyone's knowledge and we make an administration more friendly to the citizenry. It is obvious that in the digital age, at the moment we are, we need to be aware of the importance of the use of data and the potential they have. This is why the Generality has a catalogue of open data that at these times counts with more than a thousand sets of data. The private world has been working this way for a long time and so has the social network. They are a very obvious example of how large companies are reaped for particular benefits. We, in change, do not have to reap benefits for the common good, to bring social value to our policies. That's why we've set up and we're not towing. We have to process the data so we can put the city, the entities, the companies, in the center. And how does that land? So speeding up processes; reducing bureaucracy; promoting easy-to-read tools in the area of the administration right; feeling, each time more, owners of our interoperable data between administrations, and ultimately moving towards a more intelligent and dynamic administration. Beyond that, we want, therefore, a more efficient administration, where data constitutes a relational government, and that is also the DNA of our government. A relational leadership, which I would say are values of leadership in women as well. And the government is not a clear example. As you know, we cannot speak of good governance without transparency and accountability. And I think they both have a lot to see with the work that, in fact, opposition groups can also develop here in Parliament. And they'll allow me to focus on the work we've done since my department with the compromise, with the transparency and the retention of accounts in this chamber. An example would be the candidacy of Jocs Olímpics. We have received different petitions, also from your group, in matters of transparency and information delivery, and we have been able to stay here, but we have delivered it more than legal dues, we have made it to everyone's grasp, because you too, like any city, have transparently available all that information that refers to money invested in the public sector. And that, Congressman, is transparency, it's good government, and it's proactive in publishing information. And on the retention of accounts, I think we need to be proud of the follow-up and publication of the government plan, a tool that does not only allow us to be strategic in our work, but allows us to evaluate ourselves, to do it constantly, and thus, to get to this point, to be able to explain it in full detail. A few days from now, as you said, we'll be rocking this year of government... that, in fact, all departments are working to complete the objectives set on this board. And, for another band, and finally, when we talk about good governance, we also talk about a collaborative government, and that involves citizenship and all actors. And as I like to say often, we don't know how to do it any other way. There is no sense that the year 2022 was the year when decisions were made, the year 2022 was the year 2022, the year 2022 was the year 2022, the year 2022 was the year 2022, the year 2022 was the year 2022, the year 2022 was the year 2022, the year 2022 was the year 2022. And that's why we put a lot of emphasis on those collaborative spaces that we have with the local world. In the case of the Presidency, which we are the main interlocutors with the assemblies, through the Council of Local Governments, which we have activated, as you know, a few months ago, the Council of Petits Municipis. They also know that we have begun to legislate two important laws for the local world: the law of local governments and the law of the state of rural municipalities. And that's what we have to do: multilateral relations of much higher quality. Bilateral relations, too. And, in this sense, I like to explain that we have a much more accurate relationship and we have reactivated, therefore, bilateral relations with the Aran, of a band; also, to the band and band of the Plaça Sant Jaume, for, obviously, to face the needs of the city of Barcelona ; but also important reptes as, for example, to municipalities like Badia del Vallès, with some very unique characteristics, but also with Terrassa and other cities. Therefore, we address complex situations that require all this dedication and attention. So, Congressman, let's have a look back for a moment so we can put the focus on today. Because historically good governance has been related to the virtues of rulers and poor governance to nepotism. "Hide the earth and die the evil government was one of the slogans that the reapers cried during the religious day of Corpus on June 7, 1640. He rebelled against a regime of tyranny of the viri, especially with those who cultivated the land. This is the wrong government: tyranny, not respecting basic democratic values, not respecting the fundamental rights. And the Catalans and the Catalans, Mr. Carrizosa, are fighting against the evil government, because we are victims. And it can't go far enough: with mass espionage, without ending up at the end of the responsibilities; believing that a government can go over the fundamental rights and democratic opposition; believing that the courts and prosecutors fine-tune it all, this constant feeling of not only lack of protection, but of a state that goes against it. And you're accomplices and promoters. So, that's a deal for you. Allow me to tell you that President Puigdemont is not in the mouth. President Puigdemont has obviously done an excellent job here and is doing it as an MEP; therefore, representing with all rights and with all responsibilities. Therefore, he alerts himself to what he speaks to. Because we don't just manage day by day. Because we are working to transform and work for the independence of this country, and we will not fail to do so. The Government of Catalonia therefore represents a good, open, transparent, collaborative and institutionally integrated government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.35.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.36.0	Let me tell you, Mrs Vilagrà, that if in 1640 there was a cry about the bad government in Catalonia, in 1652, when at the end of twelve years of French administration, the Catalans of the time shouted « Visca lo rei d'Espanya, in 1652. [[Some applause.]] And then, with regard to competitiveness, of course, I..., really, the problem we have in Catalonia only you refuse to see it: the flight of companies, the depression, the lack of trust in our numbers. But this is objective with the competitiveness rankings published in the European Union at the request of the European Commission, as these are objective data. And our competitiveness, in various indices, is below the average of the regions of the European Union. And, for example, our labour market in terms of competitiveness stands at 220 out of 268. And our institutional quality, which I believe affects you very directly, has fallen by sixty-eight in the past year. Therefore, it is true that in Catalonia you have led us to a crisis in which we are entering without you knowing how to slow down and change the pace. And I was telling you one of the most important issues, which is this reform of the Administration to prevent it from overburdening citizens' pockets and, moreover, not helping to boost our land and our economy. With a better administration of money, with a proper prioritisation of the subjects that matter most to the citizens, we certainly should not have to take the colors from you in terms of public housing. That all the Governments of the Generalitat have moved from fulfilling the obligations set out in the Housing Act with regard to public use of land and public rental housing, which is what could really affect the price of housing. Nor is anything done to lower health waiting lists that have been exacerbated after the covid. Nothing has been done to reverse the mismanagement that we have experienced in residences and not for the investment deficit that is suffered in the homes of older people. Vocational training, so far..., which has had such an impact on young people's access to the labour market, being one of the most vulnerable groups to unemployment, as absolutely nothing has been done. It is announced, it is announced, but for the moment there have been expanded squares and nothing more of that is known. The big FP project that we had here in Catalonia linked to automotive is absolutely stopped and failed. While the Catalans are looking at how they save energy on a day-to-day basis, or how they deal with inflation, which is triggered by the price of fuel and the maintenance of wages, on this, you..., here Mr. Giró washed his hands. Ah, that's why you refuse all kinds of responsibility and competition. And then there are two themes – which now Mr.Elena was entering – which are the insecurity of the citizen and the depoliticization, once and for all, of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio. As far as public insecurity is concerned, we have started with a bad foot and we are still out there, which is denigrating the Mossos d'Esquadra, ignoring the problem of occupation and insecurity associated with criminal occupation in the neighbourhoods. Of course ghettos and nuclei, let us say, of marginality and poverty must be faced with social measures, but it is well known that the police must be given greater means and greater prestige to the principle of authority. And last but not least, and since we don't have any more time, listen, now we're going to change the directors of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. Let's see if we really focus on criteria of professionalism and not on those that are too much of the process, which is what we've had so far. No more propaganda in the public media. They also end the policy of an empty chair, stop invoking dialogues that are blackmail, talk to each other and start to rule for real, because Catalans are sick of it and want to start seeing solutions from their government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.37.0	And then she has the word Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, Congressman, this government has been working hard for a year, and I can give you a lot of examples. As a matter of fact, you pointed out to me some that I'll end up degracing them. For the Department of Presidency, as I said, this comprehensive reform of the Catalan public occupation is so necessary. We have also set aside – and, in fact, we have agreed with the unions – this process of stability, which will benefit 59,000 people; therefore, a historical process. We have also begun to deploy territorial services to Upper Pirinius and Aran and Penedès, which had been pending. The strategic scope of digital infrastructure has also been approved – important, obviously, for the country – or Lleida's rail service to Railways from 2024 onwards. I was talking about business questions and support questions. So we've already set aside, in the last two years, more than €200 million in active employment policies for young people. The deployment of the single business window, which is already operational throughout Catalonia, has also been completed. After many negotiations, the management and operation of the Martorell Vocational Training Centre was awarded to UPC; therefore, an important issue. For another band, we have allocated more than €3,000_million to grants and aid, giving response to the needs arising from the pandemic in the later years, in the later two years. And a decree on urgent measures to deal with the economic effects of the war in Ukraine is also being finalized. The Protection and Promotion Body of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination has been presented, or the TempsxCures programme has been approved with a budget of 20_million euros. The number of calls for this year's grants for the internationalization of Catalan entities has tripled. Or the decree – which, in fact, has been adopted today – has been approved – from the government of the Government of the Generalitat to the outside, and has been extended to fourteen. I know it's hard to say it there, because I know he likes it very little, but we have it fully in our priorities. For another band, we have granted with the municipal world to finance children's education P2. Also a plan to increase the use of català in educational centres; obviously, this seeks to end the judicialization on this issue. In this new course 2022-23, decrease of the ratios to children 3, modification of the calendar, an increase of the initial offer of vocational training– you spoke to me, and I can already give you, therefore, this given–, and modification of the procedure to ensure that all the students of the fourth of ESO take place in the middle cycle and the implementation of the decree of the programming of the educational offer. For another band, the prices of the official masters have been reduced to 40 per cent to match them to the degree study. Or the law of science has already been approved, with the aim of consolidating the model of research, development and innovation. For what it does to other departments, such as Climate Action, with the modification of this Decree Law 16/2019 has succeeded in accelerating this energy transition so necessary. Or the program for the design and creation of public energy has been approved. For another gang, questions of salvation. The government and the universities agree to increase in more than five hundred places of access the degree of Nursing for the coming course, and this supposes a twenty-i-five_per_cent more than the current ones. Or the plan of prevention of the suicide of Catalonia 2021-2025 has been approved to reduce, of course, the cases and the social stigma that it means. It has managed to consolidate a staff of 22,000 staff from Mossos d'Esquadra – it is a historical fact. They'll also incorporate us as firefighters and firefighters, you'll work and you'll volunteer. Or the feminization of the bodies. Or criteria to make the phone rights prevail in the processing of documents linked to citizen security. In social rights, approval of the sectoral territorial plan of habitating, which marks the lines in question of habitating in the own twenty years. Or more than EUR 55 million have been invested to reduce waiting lists to residential places. Or the important milestone of the approach of sensillarism in Catalonia for the next few years. And to culture, a given historical presupposition for iron public policies of culture. Or to allocate EUR 25 million of aid to the audiovisual sector. Or the national language pact was presented. And in fairness, a theme that will please you very much, steps have been taken to normalize the use of català to justice; the Compendium has been set aside. and approved to subscribe to the lawyer of the turn of office a forty-three_per_cent more per writing presented in català. Examples, just a few, of the work done by this good government of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.39.0	Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government about the role of the infirmary in the health system, which has been presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Asked the Government about the role of the infirmary in the health system]] [[300-00162/13]] And you have the word, to make the inquiry, the presentation, the deputy Mrs Titón Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.40.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Health Counselor... Before anything else I would like to greet the people who accompany us here today to the Chamber, who are Estrella Martínez, degana of the Council of Colleges of Nurses and Nurses of Catalonia, and the President, Mrs. Paola Galbany, of the Colleges of Nurses and Nurses of Barcelona. And to excuse, therefore, the other three presidents who for various reasons have not been able to accompany us today. Because this question that I am asking today, I am precisely doing it with a reason that tomorrow, May 12, is the International Day of Nurses. And it is celebrated on May 12 in record of one of the references of our profession, the Florence Nightingale, the lady of the light, hidden on such a day as yesterday, 1820, and that to the war of Crimea it did such a simple thing to today's eyes, but so revolutionary then, that it was to separate the net and the raw areas, the rent of hands and incorporate hygiene as one of the basic measures to attend to the wounded. But she wasn't just a pioneer in this, but she was one of the first nurses to systematize health care, to create a secular nursing school in London; she was also a pioneer in the backstory of health care data and in the management of hospitals. And, in fact, it is attributed to the development of a form of circular graph, a circular histogram– those that are dedicated to statistics must know much better than I–, which still today is called the Nightingale rose diagram. Why am I saying all this? Because, precisely, Nurse Nightingale was a pioneer of what the profession will be today and, in the band of her care task, she was also a pioneer in teaching, research, hospital management and also in clinical management. And I am convinced that all this has not been attributed to Mrs. Nightingale, of which we do know this romantic nickname as the lady of the light or the lady of the lamp, precisely because of the fannalet she wore when she walked through the different rooms where the soldiers wounded in the war attended. Therefore, the nurses were there and we were there and we have always been, but more often than not, under my father, doing a long work of focus in many cases and which is often translated into innovations in the care and care of people, not just the ills, but all, and always aging for the dignity of the citizenry. And I put only three examples of a strength of a profession that is necessary, that is essential, that is sometimes less valued from the perspective, even, of the first infirmaries, that we do not give visible value to those contributions that we make to our system of salvation. For example, who invented and patented the usable litter only with one hand, the litter that we all know and that is still being used today? So she was a nurse, Letitia Mumford, who improved the invention of an Irish doctor so as to facilitate the administration of medication, that at those times not only needed the two hands, but often the help of a helper. Or, second of all, Anita Dorr, an American nurse who also valued that one of the things that made care for people who were suffering from heart failure was precisely the time it took to accommodate the person to reanimate it and, at times, also the time that used to be used by all the health personnel who had to serve him or her in years and years looking for medication and tools so as to serve this suffering from heart failure. And, therefore, it was invented what is still being used today, which is the cardio-respiratory casket. Or Jean Ward, a British nurse who was told that those infants who were at the most suitable incubators in the windows of the nursery revert before jaundice – that dark color that has a lot of children at birth – than those who were inside the room. And, therefore, he did, therefore, a practice of taking the babies outside that touched them the sun, and here, scientifically, after the pediatric team of the hospital deduced that it was much better phototherapy than, as they did until then, blood transfusions. Or, for example, and I don't want to go that far, the infirmary Rosa Maria Alberdi, Mallorcan, who was the first woman to the Spanish State infirmary named doctor honors cause. There are three or four examples, among many other nurses, who have almost anonymously made great contributions to community salvation and who, along with other people from other professions, are still in debt with them. And, in fact, this is one of the reasons today's inquiry, because the year 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, the WHO determines that it was the Year of Nurses. But the nurse's room also took care of us, so this option of celebrating as a calibre a year that was dedicated to our profession, and that certainly also put our focus not only on health care, but also social focus, health focus, political focus... In any case, we were always in the mouth of a lot, a lot of people. And, therefore, it would not be possible to make this inquiry without reiterating the gratitude to all the nurses, to all the doctors, to all the health personnel, to those who were not, or essential personnel, that still today, therefore, they are giving their face to protect us all folds. And, therefore, you also have very much thanks. The infirmary has always been a vocational profession where compromise is one of its foundational pillars. But today we still have a lot on the table, which goes from the need for better working conditions..., and I'm not just talking about wages, but I'm also talking, for example, about the professional career or the implementation of nursing specialties. As an example, I'm a nurse specialist in mental health, and tomorrow I could go to work at an intensive care unit or a trauma unit. Or the name, for example, of nurses who need to go down to each unit to accompany people. They'll probably understand us better if we talk about rats, how many nurses we're close to per capita, and how much I like to run away from this concept of rats because I understand that we're going to have to talk a lot more about the people's need for salvation to say how many nurses we need. But, equally, we are very much under the mid-range figures of OECD countries with systems similar to our own and, therefore, it is also a reptile that we have on the table. Or another challenge, which the counselor has not referred to these last few days, is that in these very years there will be an important retirement of doctors and nurses and that, therefore, we will also have a lack of health professionals attached to what we already have at these times. So, this is another repte we have on the table. In these last few days it has been announced the increase of training places in the degree of Nursing, and even though it is a very good news, we have to make it still better, facilitating training in teaching, in management and with advanced practices to the infirmaries, because, still being the most important profession of the health system, still today we lack the ability to influence when we talk about health policies, and I believe that of this also, the profession, we have no self-criticism. But even so, at this post-pandemic stage that we're starting now, I think it's also the time for nurses, because there's times of cure, there's times to accompany, there's times to be actively escorted, to take care of, and that's what nurses know. We need to work because nurses develop all our abilities, all our potentials, grow the profession and work hard as a team with the rest of our professional health companies. We cannot have nurses working under their skills, but on the contrary, which we cannot afford to lose talent, lose resources and lose commitment to citizenship, which has all the right to be cared for and to be well cared for. And, in addition, also the compromise to the health service. Every time more, cooperation and teamwork must be the building blocks of our health care system, and more so when we have – and we have not spoken many times – the patient, the person, at the center of health care. And finally, I started by naming Florence Nightingale, who is the person who represents the celebration of May 12th, precisely because it's her birthday. But we have many other references in the infirmary and some important contemporaries that have marked us nine ways of seeing the infirmary, of caring, of working for the person. And, therefore, I'd like to end up with another of the nursing profession's referrals, which is Virginia Henderson. She said that the nurse is, temporarily, the consciousness of the unconscious, the death of the suicide, the bed of the amputee, the eyes from which she was left, a means of transportation for the infant, the experience and confidence for a young mother and the voice of those weak people to speak. So, I want to congratulate all the nurses on their day. And we need to talk, and talk a lot, about those you don't see, but we also need to talk, and talk a lot, about our profession. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.41.0	And now there's the words of Salut's advisor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.42.0	President. MP, MPs, MPs, first place, I want to make a recognizance of all the nurses and all the nurses facing the International Day of Nursing, which is celebrated this next May 12, all the work they do, with the compromise and professionalism that they do, in our system of salvation. Also welcome the deganation of the Council of Colleges of Nurses and the president of the Official College of Nurses and Nurses of Barcelona. Congresswoman Laïlla, you're a nurse who explained very well the role that the infirmary has in the system, from where and where to evolve. I share your approach and take on the need to work for recognition and to improve the working conditions of our country's nurses. And this is also one of the commitments this government has: the better working conditions of professionals. And the next president, in the general policy debate, commented and explicitly said that more resources are needed for health; among other things, to improve the working conditions and wages of professionals in the health field. One of the first things to get better, certainly – and you have made reference to it too – is the skill of professionals. In these last years we have incorporated into our system seventeen thousand people– seventeen thousand people, working throughout the health care system – of which 3,400 belong to the nursing group. It represents an increase, therefore, of the deu_per_cent respect to the year 2009; much needed, but certainly also insufficient. As I have said, this ratio has increased, but I am not in favour of speaking, precisely, of the rates, but rather of the needs of the citizenry. But it's also true that we still have a long way to go, because the role of the infirmary is every time more and more important. We also talked about another element here, in this chamber, that is the lack of professionals, especially nursing professionals and also medicine, and – you have also made reference – retirement in your own years, in your own five years, which will be between 6,000 and 8,200 nurses. Therefore, we will need, in this sense, every time more professional and better-formed. And, respecting this need for professionals, we also have to say that one of the instruments we have and that the Vergés Councillor has put on the march and that she has given fruit is this forum of professional dialogue in which she works in various lines. And when we speak specifically of the profession of nurse, one of these lines, to mention only one, is the promotion of teacher accreditation in the degree of nursery from the discipline itself. It's also true that we need to form every more infirmary and every more infirmary specialists. You also mentioned it. It's also true – and we also have to say – that Catalonia is the community that specializes in health training to inferring supply and availability. And also, from this point of view, you know that we need, in some way, to encourage this formation, and we also need to encourage those professions or those, forgive, more so, specialties that are more deficient in our country, and also with positive discrimination not only by specialties, but also by territories. With regard to the infirmary, what was done was this encouragement or discrimination against the mental health infirmary, which was at these times the most deficient and also the most renouncing, and we also have to say that, now that the choice of encany has already been made, therefore, in principle it seems that I would say that one success, because we have increased the first and second quartile by fifty_per_cent compared to the previous year. But we also need to increase the places of the degree of Nursing. And here we must also appreciate the work that has been done by Universities and Research, which we have achieved, or achieved, from Universities and Research, six-hundred new places in nursing universities. And that is also something we must congratulate ourselves on, and above all because there is also a compromise that it is not timely, but resorted to. All this, of course, goes to dispose of more resources of the health system, an adequate financing – I will not be here, I have done it many times already in this same chamber – but we also need to improve something else – and that has also been commented on at some point – such as job stability. Here, we can take the data of the Catalan Institute of Health, which is the largest public enterprise we have around Health, with practically fifty_ thousand people working there. I, from this point of view, from today until the 31st of December of the year 24, will achieve 22,000 new fixed personnel appointments. And that's very good news. Of these, 6,800 will be places of infirmary; among which will be solved now, past the summer, until this September of 24, 6,800 places, I repeat, will correspond to infirmary. And also, which is most important, that in the conjunction of the health system we reduce the percentage of temporality, on the 31st of December of the 24th, until the 8th_per_cent. Therefore, in the end, we have different lines of work in which we must continue to advance and deepen, and also reach agreement and consensus, that I am convinced that Parliament will reach it. All right, all right, Just reiterate my thanks, my appreciation for all the work. We are also, yet, whether or not we are in a pandemic – we are carrying two years in a pandemic – and my thanks, my most sincere thanks, to all the sick people and to all the workers in the health care system who have had us here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.43.0	Let's move on to the 8th item on the agenda, the question to the government about road safety in relation to the mobility models, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. [[Interview with the Government on road safety in relation to modes of mobility]] [[300-00171/13]] And he has the word, to make the presentation to him, Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.44.0	Thank you, President. On May 6, the Català Transit Service and the Transport Division of the Mosso d'Esquadra announced that there was a joint action plan to reduce left-wingness to the reels. Since the Department of the Interior and its consultancy we know that they work to fight against accidentality, but this job that the Català de Transit Service and the Department of the Interior does is really the last line of defense to fight the dead and the heavy accidents on the road. There are elements that escape your advice and that make it very difficult to reduce deaths to the roads and urban streets of our country; structural elements that can be faced and we believe that a reflection of a country needs to be done. And to contribute to this reflection, even at the risk of seeming a little repellent, first I want to talk about these structural elements that bring us together with a sustainable and secure mobility. Second, I want to make you some petitions, Mr. Counselor, within your sphere of responsibility. Thirdly, I will end up asking for a compromise at the side of the chamber, which I will express in the next motion, around an alliance for safe and sustainable mobility. There are, first, circumstantial elements that we are living. The charge to the covid does not yet channel the increase of mobility towards public transport. The increase in demand for goods means that there is a greater need to move these goods for reelers. The fact that tolls have been released by the State without any alternative, without analysis or reflection, has led to management of congestion, with the result that some of these lives that were safe and fast before today are congested and are more dangerous. This situation has not only been attended by statisticians or students, but also by meetings with the local workers and workers in the freight transport sector who have been on the move these past few months and with the workers and workers of the various passenger transport companies. They tell us that there are vehicles that are not in the best condition, there are workers and workers who are doing more hours than they are, and that means a more risky situation for our riders. And there are structural elements. The shortage of railway infrastructure by the State, especially in the field of goods, makes every increase in demand for goods to go by road. And another structural problem is that public transport suffers from a difficult financing deficit on the part of the State, which, moreover, has worsened during this pandemic. This public transport did not have the number of users that is necessary to maintain it, for its sustainability. The State had undertaken to make up for this lack of ticketing and has not yet done so at all. Let us not forget that this drift of mobility to private transport is also a woman in urban life. There was a lack of courage in this pandemic, on the part of some people together. There has been more marketing than a real bet for safe and sustainable mobility. Some metropolitan government has been overshadowed by the pressure from who does not want the car to lose the situation of privileges it has in mobility. Compared to what many European capitals have made, the capital of Catalonia has remained quite backward. The consequences of increased accidents also live urban lives. For example, in Barcelona we have unfortunately suffered a dramatic increase in motorcyclists' fatal accidents. All of these elements cause us to move away from the zero-accident objective, and create the drama of deaths and injuries to our country's urban streets and streets. For this reason, Parliament, the government and the rest of the administration should be compromised – and we will ask in the next motion – with the following objectives. We need to speed up the switch to active mobility modes; it is inapplicable. We need to recover public transport users from private transport; this is also unappealable. That the State makes the contribution it touches and does not make, both in structural foundations to maintain public transport, as by the extraordinary fall in front of the covid. Railway infrastructure that has not been made by the State must be required, especially in the field of freight transport. It has to be worth the time to bet on sustainable mobility modes, and that means taking space in the car. Six: we have to reject the bet for the increase of reels or more carts as a solution to congestion and accident, as we have seen later in some announcement, because the only one we would be doing is to encourage more and more private vehicle. And you need to bet on active long-distance mobility between urban nuclei less than two miles from each other. This is not his competence, it is the competence that we have to do from Parliament, asking the government and various administrations. But now allow me to do some petitions, counselor, of areas in which it is competent and which, moreover, will now have the opportunity to answer us. We need you to put in for intelligent congestion channeling mechanisms. The actions you have done to the South AP-7, of reversible trolleys, are more efficient than any work. Please, just keep going this way. It's a bet for road solutions that smooth out high-capacity entrances and exits, that it's these incorporations that can cause disruptions that help create congestion and accidents. You can bet on an intelligent variable signaling to make intelligent flashes, for automatic temporal signals, for pulsers to indicate the presence of cyclists, or temporal signals when there are animals on the road. So that they continue with the campaigns to protect the most vulnerable users of the urban road – the traveler and the bicycle – but also to protect who suffers the most from accidents, who are the users of the motorcycle. Continue to support the municipality in two aspects, with the least, which they believe are essential. First, advise on the development of their ordinances to prevent measures that can prevent practical ills in personal mobility vehicles from introducing measures that vagrant against active mobility. The second is that they continue to give support and funding to adapt the urban environment to active and secure mobility, as you announced a few weeks ago. And, obviously, implementing this comprehensive patrol plan that Mossos and Servei Català of Transit have announced as a measure of rock; it is more than necessary. Finally, I call for a common front for infrastructure and quality public transport. The Generality has to do its job, and the Català Transit Service has to fight to introduce the best technology and work in prevention and inspection to reduce accidents. In that they are very demanding. And we know that you're very self-requiring, but it's obvious that you're not on your hands reducing accidents to zero, because without attacking the underlying causes we won't get out of it. Various voices alert us of this lack of infrastructure. Most recently, young people under the Batéco flag are mobilizing these warning days of the state's reversal deficit and the lack of the Spanish state's bet in the Catalan public transport. It's a palpable evidence, and many people say, that the state brings years with its contributions to frozen public transport. Other representatives of another administration, the spokespersons of the Metropolity Transport Authority, announced that the recaptancy deficit in 2020 was 400_million euros of deficit; deficit, in fact not having enough users. A lot of what the state has made up for with covid parties. In addition, the Public Transport Platform has denounced more than once: that the State has no problem financing all users for petrol or releasing tolls, in change, seems more problematic to take part in this deficit generated by the pandemic or to make the contribution that it has to public transport. There are many views that demand that the State collaborate in supporting public transport, that it is not doing so, and, at the same time, that we resolve the infrastructure gap that surrounds it. The lack of investment in railway infrastructure; the lack of investment in public transport; the insufficient assumption of the State in the coveted funds to rescue public transport, and the release of unaltered tolls and analytics on us are still empty. Taking the space out of the car and the lack of bet for active mobility is also keeping us alive. As much as you, Mr. Counselor, and the Català Transit Service and the Mossos d'Esquadra Transit Division do their job, without a real change to active mobility, it will be impossible to guarantee this sustainable and secure mobility. There is no more certainty than public transport and active mobility modes. And zero accident is not an object that we can only do with signs on the road, with traffic measures or Mossos controls. All this must be done, and you are asked to do so, but we must attack the underlying causes and make this transition to safe and sustainable mobility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.45.0	Then, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.46.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, as you said, actually, this isn't just from a glance. The other day I felt a half-hour, a tale that explained a singer. And he explained that in a huge fire – huge – there was a small hummingbird pulling water, right? – anava tyrant water –: of the drops, of the drops... And an elephant came in and said to him, "What are you doing? If you can't get anything out of this! And he answered him, saying, "I do my job. And what do you do? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So effectively, in politics and in all spheres, the issues that are very transversal and very uplifting are many the sights that need to be incorporated. But the Home Secretary has his obligations as head of the Català Transit Service, and, indeed, on the one hand, he does not have to push these more global ones, and then he has to assume his responsibilities, does he not? Accidents are a terrible drama. One hundred and twenty-eight people the past year have lost their lives; twenty-one hundred less than two years ago, yes, but it is equally an appalling tragedy, both accidents and consequences that were going through the family environment, and, besides, all victims of injuries, incapacitated and disabled, etc., derived from accidents, right? The truth is that we have seen an increase in mobility as a consequence, so that... the pandemic has already passed, has returned to economic activity and this has generated a certain rebound, hasn't it? , accidents and accidents. Although it has dropped in this first quarter respects two years ago a disset_per_cent the number of accidents, the number of deaths has increased a little. And that concerns us and deals with us especially, because it is obvious that, as I said, it is a tragedy to which I can give an answer. We are particularly concerned that thirty-six per cent of mortal victims are vulnerable collectors and that this is maintained stable over time: travellers, cyclists and motorists, right? We are concerned about the increase in overruns on motorways and motorways. In this year they have not produced more than not two years ago..., the year 19, three years ago. And for what he does to motorists, he's kept a high percentage, though there's been a descent in the past few days. And we are particularly concerned with some questions: frontal collusions have increased and problems have increased greatly, especially as a result of speeding and distractions. And in these moments we can count on fifty-seven tragic guany, right? Fifty-seven families, and around, and people and sees truncated. One of the things we want to focus on is, precisely, in the Service of Attention to Traffic Victims, and we will soon present a set of measures for this concrete collection, because it seems to us that from the Administration we have to give more response in many areas. I, in fact, there is a plan of action designed in four areas. First, the full patrol plan by the Transport Division of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. The actions we want to frame them in the most vulnerable collections, increasing the controls in these concrete collections, and in particular intensifying the controls linked to the distractions and excess speed of motorists. And, in this sense, I will set out some concrete measures for them. Right, put more traffic on the reels. We will, it's already beginning to implement, and that also has to suppose a better one in this sense. And a wide range of intensive traffic controls linked to, like, the gods, motorcycles, cyclists, alcohol and drug controls, distractions, speed and retaliatory and reckless conduct. In this sense, I want to put it in value, too..., we have reversed a decision a few years ago to dissolve a few sections of the country's traffic, in concrete terms, and we have reversed this decision to keep them, because one of the things that needs to be done in all spheres, but in this particular case, it is just about where things are going so that we can be more attentive and take the right steps. It has been, quite frankly, very well embraced this decision, because in some circles this dissolution of some sectors of transit, which caused a lot of public services to be carried out by this service, was very concerned. Also more radars, necessary, because there's more control. Some relocate them, because they are in the same place from a long time ago, and place them especially in areas of major left-handedness. Locate radars to places that have changed for the context and for the changes that have occurred, such as in the AP-7, as a result of the removal of the tolls. Also, this month of May we are putting in operation six tram radars, also much needed especially to places where they are enough, enough needed, for the index of left-handedness that there is. Also increase the online radars, taronja radar boxes, which are mobile, also to fit the mobility, because not every day is needed in the same place. And we would also increase, therefore, those who make reference to motorcycle control. And in this sense, therefore, we have incorporated into the department three motorcycles that are..., "spiells, they're going to, that they control motorcycles, especially in places where there is greater left-handedness of motorcycles. They are camouflage and, in this sense, we believe that they can do a lot of good work in the service of solving space and concrete places in which there is an immense sinisterity in the field... in concrete terms, with motorcycles and motorists, therefore. Also in the air control, right? From drones, for a band, like the helicopter of the Catal Service of Transit, which incorporates a move because it can also, from there, take a control not only of the speed, but also of the distractions very particularly. And, of course, there's one last element that you can't help but do, which is awareness; it's to say, the dissemination of safety tips, social networks, and also specific awareness campaigns very concrete to collect, as they are to motorists, in which already more than four_ thousand motorists have participated in these specific training courses for motorists. Also, through the schools and the presence, therefore, in different courses of regulated formation of our schools, therefore, campaigns of communication and awareness in different formats to reach as many people as possible, as many citizens as possible, and also, particularly, young people in our country. And, finally, I would also like to talk about what I have already commented on in a parliamentary question, and it is to give support to the assemblies. Not all joints have the ability to implement their road safety plans, so, because they are small joints and, sometimes, from the point of view of resources, for a band, but also from the point of view and also from the technical capacity to implement them, they have problems, right? And, in this sense, we have made this line of grants of 5_million euros to groups of fewer than 50_1,000 inhabitants, with two characteristics. One is that the grant can reach up to 150,000_euros; therefore, it allows them to take measures of pacification of the traffic of zones 30, of segregation of lanes for bicycles..., in other words, of different measures of pacification signalization of the traffic. And as the second element, that the joints value this especially, is that it subsidizes the cent_per_cent of the operation, let's say, of the action. Many gatherings on many occasions do not have the ability to place the part we ask of them. Diem: "Look, we give you 150,000 euros... we subsidize you one hundred and fifty, but you don't have to put 150,000 more you. On many occasions this is not possible. And, therefore, thinking that these measures are specifically targeted at small and very small communities, these measures are intended to ensure that the cent_per_cent can be subsidized. Therefore, there are many actions that from the department, and in particular from the Catalan Transit Service, we are applying because the cause deserves it. We can't allow this index of mortality and left-handedness, because it's tragedies that we can avoid and our duty as political leaders is to put all the energy into it because this tragedy doesn't just minimize it, it's our short-term obligation, but it's the mean and long-term goal of disappearing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.47.0	Let's move on, then, to the new point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the railway system, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. [[Asking the Government about the railway system]] [[300-00169/13]] And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.48.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs... Senhor Puigneró, has been running much since the inauguration of the Mataró-Barcelona line, in 1848, the first of the peninsula. The one with which we started a little while ago was diluted. Agafo the motius exposition of the law of the railway system of 2006, it was said textually: « Years of great splendor give not in time of decadence, great and small railway projects are abandoned. In Catalonia, there are some examples of railway routes which in time are still in use, which in some cases are used as green roads, which in others are claimed from the nostalgia and, well, also from the need. I think we can all keep track of the head, hours ago, train lines that have disappeared, right? For example, in Gironine comarques, Olot-Banyoles-Girona; Salt, Girona; and Sant Feliu de Guixols. We've lost a lot of railroads before. And not just that, but we're going back into the use of the train. And we are in a climate-emergency context, and we are at a time when the use of the train should be increased because it is an electrified medium that generates almost zero emissions. Still, we're going back. And we don't go back because of the citizens, just because public administrations don't increase their frequencies, they don't lower their fares, they don't have night trains, they don't guarantee hard bike space on condition, or parking at the stations where they leave their bikes. And it is not thought of new railway lines fighting against the exclusion of mobility that suffer many veins and veins. Yeah, we're talking about excluding mobility. And, who are the exclosures? So they're the ones who can't afford a car and don't have a public transport solution to access the industrial estate where they work. In short, it is not doing everything necessary to attract passengers to the train. Bet, in change, for the usual model – for reels, for variants, for motorways – even being in a peak oil situation. So what we get is to be happy with the engine lobby, and so, in the past, we're going to fragment the territory, and in this way, at the end of a few years, right? , all areas adjacent to these new infrastructures, for the relevant procedures, reclassifying them to urbanizable land. We cannot continue to allocate resources to the road network while we have this historical deficit in the transport collection. And it will cost this to fix, because we have a totally fragmented territory, precisely, as a result of the urban policies that took place in the last forty years in this country. And the question is, who are we complaining about? Who are you looking for the responsibility to expand, to improve the Catalan railway system? Does it correspond to Fomento? Is that the General's answer? The question is not simple to solve. And every morning, while we try to solve these questions, the working classes of this country, that every time they are more impoverished and every time they are more impoverished not only because of the situation in Ukraine, what they find is that they have to use the private vehicle to go to work because there are no train frequencies, because they can't lose three or four hours to get to work, that people who in their day were expelled from the big city as a result of these totally abusive cars, because they have come closer by car than by not taking a train, because they are getting you to suffer degrading situations, humiliation, in cars absolutely caught up in people, because they are not getting there directly. This can't go on like this. Because, besides, here we have to add another problem, that is that the contamination generated by the dead traffic, that there are dead, that they are invisible dead; that we have the visible dead, that they are the consequence of the left-handedness, but there are also invisible deaths, and that we can now quantify in numbers and that, moreover, these dead are avoidable. The working and student people of this country, which is the majority of the country, are in a situation of enragement. And so much so that the Batec organization did an action, a few days ago, precisely to denounce this precariousness. It's a sign that this is a concern and one that will surely turn many actions in the proper times. And who followed Renfe's answer before this action? Complaints for the relevant proceedings. Or else, it has to start from the bigger myopia to see that this action does not respond to any particular demand, but that they are denouncing a structural system that can be channeled through a book of complaints. Well, the Catalan railway system is integrated, as you know, for the metro lines of Barcelona, for the networks of the Vallès, the Baix Llobregat, the two zippers, the Lleida line - the Pobla, the tram of the Baix Llobregat, the Besòs. And then we have the General Administration of the State network, which is catalogued with general interest. Since the Government of the Generalitat, public enterprises have been engaged in public enterprises, public enterprises that are not sufficiently entangled with each other and that end up forming today a mosaic that is inefficient in terms of mobility. That's right, many boards of directors; in change, very little will be gained from explaining to civil society about mobility policies and tariff systems. The competitive mark, we repeat, is a teranyina, and a teranyina that no one cares to degenerate. It turns out that the Generalitat corresponds to the competence of the railway service that passes only through Catalonia. Let's leave the AVEs aside. In fact, we already have this competence, and that is why we say this law of the railway system in 2006. So, on this competence that the Generalitat has, we demand, we ask you that I apply for railway projects that come from the centrality of Barcelona and that think about the whole territory, its people and the need for mobility. We also ask that, please, they start betting for planning, that there is no strategic planning of the country's railway system and that, therefore, what comes today is a board of railway infrastructure, exiting the fragmented view of the country, a board drawn from the Mediterranean Corridor until the recovery of these historical lines that we had found in the country. Where do we delegate all this competence to the Generality? In Railways of the Generalitat, this public company that also operates lives and that does absolutely inefficient management. We ask the government to plan and not to waste money and to serve the interests of the popular classes, from all over the country. A look at the program marc de Ferrocarrils. So we see conclusions: that it is part of a centralized logic; that the vampire of line 9, which already carries more than 8,000_million euros malgastats, is reactivated, and that, well, if we make a comparison in which..., if this is to meet the first crown of 2_million_i_mig people, what reversal should be made for the rest of the country? So the xifra would go to a lot of thousands of millions. There are central performances in Barcelona. After looking at what is planned for the territorial development and we see that there are ideas like deseasonalization of mountain stations in the logic of the Olympic Games, recovering the historical heritage of Ferrocarrils, recharging for electric vehicles to mountain stations, powering of tourist railways... Is this really the proposal they have for the rest of the country? The other things that Ferrocarrils does, therefore, are to form new societies in the form of anonymous societies, and to end, no? In short, atomizing the railway system because its taxation every time is more difficult, and to prevent organised civil society from being able to participate influentially in mobility policies, which recognises the law of mobility. And here we are also linked to the drama of T-Mobility, which we have dealt with other times, which leads the territorial council, with a UTE formed by « the Box, Indra, Fujitsu and Moventia, which rents in 2014, which is still with the hottest in the water, and which carries some lost absolutely millions. To the rest of the territory, therefore, a railway policy, therefore, seems as if it is not even expected. And then we have all the lives that the State has qualified as of general interest, where the Generality has exclusive competence, but the network of rails, chains and stations, therefore, correspond to Adif, a state-owned company, and the management of the service is in charge of Renfe. We ask the Government to make the relevant pressures to the State because it gives low-lying lines of the general interest chain and immediately gives in to the Generality. We also ask that I stop operating Renfe Operatora as the service provider. It is the Generalitat that has the ownership of the management and must be in charge by direct management of these lines. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.49.0	To answer, there is now the words of the Vice President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.50.0	Well, very late. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Vinyets, look, in the first place, let me tell you that you can do politics in favor of the train and you don't have to permanently criminalize the car, huh? I think it's compatible with one another. For a moment, it seemed to me that I was listening to Mrs. Colau and the commoners, wasn't it? With your speech. Anyway, I think... obviously we have to make a bet for the train, and this country has to make a bet for the train. And we're also dedicated to this from the Department of Territory and the Vice-President. We have a lot of planning tools and ideas about what to go through in the next two years in railways, and the main one, and since the first day we have laid on the table, is said to be integral transposition of Rodales. I'm telling you why we can talk a lot about trains, huh? But if we don't put this issue on the table and it actually produces this transposition, what we can do will be relatively little, with the tools we have today. Because it's obvious that you, myself, want this country to be independent and to be fast, and surely with that we'll get all the tools. But as long as that doesn't happen, obviously, so, the main elephant we have in the room is said to be Rodalies, it's said to be the integral transposition of Rodalies. Before, let's, for that, refer to some indicators, so we can all fold into the idea, in relation to this Renfe Rodalies service that is being provided today in Catalonia. When we talk about Renfe Rodalies we are talking about 1,279 kilometers of rail network. In addition, here we can add that in Catalonia we also have 93 kilometers of Adif merchandise and 358 kilometers of high speed. Renfe Rodalies in Catalonia includes the services of Barcelona, Camp de Tarragona, Girona, Lleida and Regionals. A rail service that, with 2018 travel data, we are talking about an annual total of 125,3_million passengers. But the most important, as I said before, the owner and manager of the infrastructure and the stations is said to be Adif, and who operates the service is said to be Renfe. Therefore, Adif, Renfe, Mitma, which is the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, or continue Government, Government of the State. And here, as I said before, where we have the real problem, where we have the real elephant in the room. Therefore, the only possible solution, and the will of this government, is a complete and integral transfer of Rodalies to Catalonia. A transfer that locks the stations, the trains, you see them, the financing, the staff, the money, at least until we can clear up, obviously, the proposal of independence, which, therefore, we would no longer have to ask for anything, and we could do it. Because we cannot afford a poor service; with low reliability, with the constant failure of the timetables; with incomplete accessibility, which causes mobility to those people with reduced mobility; with offers not adapted to the demand or not suited to the needs of frequency and capacity; with incomplete information or misinformation to the client, rather than adequate customer care; with low intermodality, or so, low interconnection with other modes of transport. In short, an evil that affects millions of Catalans and Catalans who each day use it for their journeys to work, to study or for any other purpose. And we know that this transplant is feasible. But right now, let's hope that... we'll have to wait until August; let's hope that there's a political will, because with political will, you could do that. We fly and can manage our railway infrastructure; we know how to do it. Listen, you just have to do one thing: race one day on a train from Railroads or go or race a train from metro and then race a train from Renfe Rodalies and you'll see the differences. He'll see the differences in security, cleanness, punctuality, flexibility, frequency, incidents... I mean, I don't think he can add any more. But, well, we also have other planning instruments in the railway field that go beyond, obviously, the complete transfer of Rodalies. In the first place, a master plan, which is an integral plan..., a master plan of infrastructures 2021-2030, which is an integral plan of transport and mobility and which contains proposals relating to the railway network. This Master Plan 2021-2030 analyses the actions carried out up to date in the framework of the previous Master Plan in the area of the Barcelona ATM and, at the same time, makes a technical diagnosis of the state of the public transport network collection and a prospective of territorial and mobility variables at 2030 time. With this plan, the existing needs for repositioning, capacity-building and improvement are reflected, while incorporating the new social, territorial, economic and environmental realities of our country. A plan that has clear objectives, that now I will not entertain to detail all these objectives that this implies and that go from sustainability to digitization, in other words, territorial equity, etc. We also have a strategic agenda for Railroads, an agenda that seeks to define the railways' vision of the Government of Catalonia by 2030 based on four strategic axes. I'm telling you this, because before you said we didn't have any plans, we didn't have any strategy. Well, I've already made reference to two plans that we're moving forward. This plan of railways also takes into account elements of sustainability, also in the field, obviously, of salvation, of which today implies, therefore, obviously, an energetically sustainable mobility, with renewable sources and for which it implies this for salvation, obviously, environmental. Also, obviously, a plan with a look at global dynamics, which allows to act locally in an effective way, advancing to the social and economic changes that can arise and with the most appropriate decisions at every moment, as also to solve technical, environmental, technological, innovation, etc. And, finally also, thinking about people and for people, users, providers, veins, etc. And with all this Ferrocarrils visit, at the very latest some expansion projects of the railway system have materialized in the next few years. Therefore, we are not speaking for many years, but more immediately. Ferrocarrils de Lleida, which will offer some new services operated by Ferrocarrils on the line Lleida-Cervera-Manresa, based on a joint and coordinated offer of train and bus, doubling the shipments of six to twelve between Lleida and Cervera and increasing from three to five between Cervera and Manresa ; or the railways of the airport, to implement the new railway access to the airport of Barcelona. A new service that will promote connections between Barcelona and the airport and T1, currently not connected by rail. Or the Tarragona Camp tram train, to give a better service to this area from a route that has remained in disuse from Tarragona to Salou and Cambrils. In short, two plans are on the line to boost railway policies in our country. You could also talk about other concrete actions in infrastructures and services for the next two years. One of them, for example, which I hope we also see shortly – you mentioned it – the Mediterranean railway corridor; as you know, an infrastructure that we have been complaining about for 20 years, that has seen six territorial advisors pass and that its claim is already beginning to be the day of the marmot. And to finish, look, precisely, right now the Spanish government is processing a new law in the railway sector at the Congress. And here is an opportunity that we must seize to gain land in the management of the railway service in Catalonia. As the government, we want it to be no longer considered that all railway infrastructure is state-owned and to claim that those that have an eighty-percent of trains in circulation for the territory of Catalonia are transferred to the Generality. I invite you, therefore, who also have representation at the Congress of Deputies, to give support to this theme that we present to the Congress to make the transfer of this train service to the Generality more real. In short, the Government of Catalonia makes a clear bet for trains in this legislature. We'll keep doing it for the next few years. We need to decarbonize mobility and, therefore, clearly passing passengers and goods to the train is essential. But it's also true that we can't do an absolute car criminalization policy, because there's a lot of places we can't get on a train. And, therefore, we have to make compatible, also in the last mile, in which are the last kilometers, this mode of intermodal combination between the train and other modes of transport, between them, also the car. Thank you, and I will continue after the reply. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.51.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.52.0	Thank you, President. Thanks for the explanations. So yes, we want the full transfer, we want it now and we can't wait any longer, Vice President. The thing is very urgent and imperative and the Generality has competence..., has ownership in the performance of the service. Now it's Renfe's turn. There's no agreement that I'm giving an embollock to the fact that Renfe is lending this service, and we need to find some solution. Why did Mr. Pere Macias come here during the month of fever, land at the Territorial Commission, right? , representing Fomento. He presented us with an update plan of Rodalias with investments of 6,400_million euros. A lot of astronomical figures, huh? After doing the history of what has been completed and, obviously, there are organizations like Batec, which are complaining about this historical infrastructure deficit. But from the appearance, at the moment it is deduced that there is, in the short term..., that there is some possibility of this transfer, because the projections of competence and where it is being included an office of coordination of the service of Rodalies in Catalonia, therefore, does not leave much glimpse that there is this intention of immediate transfer. Or, that they must be more forceful to claim the service's performance on behalf of..., for Catalan public management and also that it is returned chains, infrastructure..., ai, stations, lives, etc. So, please, put everything on your hands to get this, because the city of this country can't wait any longer. We also ask them to plan in the country's key and to do so, to develop road investments. So, we're a lot of years late in transportation, and we have to choose immediate solutions that are firm. And I think the road infrastructure's up and I'm putting it all into the rail system. Also, that there are more trains there where there is none, that there is more frequency. Because time is good, it's worth it. And the time of all people is the same, there isn't a time of some people who are over other people's time. And one thing that's also very important: lower the rates. And please explain how these rates are calculated, how these regulations are fixed, because the price of rail transport is enormously expensive. And we want to clarify how these rates are calculated. It also requires responsibilities there for all the lack of investment that we have historically watered down. It also solves all the coordination problems they have between all these public enterprises that were constituted and that gave before they atomized the whole structure, right? , which is responsible for the Catalan railway system. Treat people not as users, but as right-to-mobility holders, from a right that is basic. And this, connected with the right to access habitat, the work and the joy of an oce of quality, a time of oce. And, please, I'm also listening to all those organizations, aren't I? For years now they have been trying to put on the table a solution to the problem that we are experiencing with regard to public transport and that they will certainly be able to illustrate a lot and give many ideas to these administration boards so opaque in which, unfortunately, the management of the mobility of this country has been greatly delegated. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.53.0	And then, in the turn of the line, the Vice President of the Governor Jordi Puignero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.54.0	Well, to clarify a little bit the terms: to be the holder of a service, but not to have the capacity to decide on the infrastructures, on the chains, on the lives, on the stations, on the staff, without the money, say, of what this means, forgive, eh? , is not to be the holder of the service. To be able to decide only the time the train, the times and the price of the ticket will pass, so with this it is not able to manage a full service of rollers to Catalonia. I guess we'll agree on that, huh? And that, therefore, is why we are asking for the full transfer of the rolling stock service to Catalonia, which now clearly manages operator Renfe. This is the solution. And listen, I, when I came in as vice president and, therefore, as a territorial councillor, this was one of the main proposals that I put in this legislature. And, obviously, for the sake of the citizens of Catalonia who every day suffer from this service, and who are inadmissible from the perspective of what this implies for the people who went to work, for whom he worked or for other questions of use, right? And I think the state government would, in fact, be empathizing with this petition, huh? And that's why, with the minister, and in meetings we've been holding at the length of these months, we've marked August as the deadline to see if there's really a political will to make a full rollover to Catalonia. And in this period, therefore, there have been and continue to be meetings, from the technical perspective, for the valorization of what this means in the economic sphere, in the field, also, therefore, of the lines to be crossed. There's been a lot of work, and anyway, I hope that's all right. It would be good news for the citizens of Catalonia. I think that, in addition, the State could also feel relieved, because, of course, it has to hold up every day, say, these incidents, therefore, that they are produced and that they are not solved because of lack of investment and other problems..., that we can manage from the proximity, as I said, this important service of mobility – that it is a right today in our country and that it is the elephant in the habitation in the field of mobility–, I think we will do each other a favor. And that's why we work, huh? We work discreetly, we work, obviously, tirelessly to accomplish this goal. Now, obviously, this has terms and the month of August, the summer, is the term we have given ourselves to see if there is this political will to actually make this full transfer. And, if not, so, listen, we'll move on to another phase, huh? And we will move on to another phase where, obviously, then, we will see which will be the actions that we will do to respect, as I say, this service. I'm sure you've commented on this claim of this group of people named Batec, haven't you? Tired already, huh? , of this service, in other words, the faults of Renfe Rodalias. I have to say, even empathize with them, empathize with the general users of Renfe Rodales. I'm also committed to the failure of Renfe's service in Catalonia. And that's why we're asking for the full transfer, to make it better. Users pay a ticket to change when the train arrives at the hour. Here's someone who's not completing his part of the deal. And they're not the users, it's Renfe. Or what is the same, is the Government of Spain. The term ends with the Minister and, for what I see, some users have already finished their patience. And I have to say, they're right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.55.0	Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the government about business investments, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. [[Inquiries to the Government on business investment]] [[300-00170/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.56.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, between 2014 and 2019, the Catalan economy grew from midjana a 2,8_per_cent per year, over the 2,6_per_cent of the conjunct of the Spanish State, over the '1,9_per_cent of the conjunct of the zone of Europe and over the '1,7_per_cent of countries like Germany. I will try to make clear this premise of exit to try to strike, sometimes, these speeches that are fan of the top of the bench and of deputies like Mr. Carrizosa, who came here to talk to us about hells and scenes that are not the real ones. Between 2014 and 2019, the Catalan economy grew from midjana a 2,8_per_cent per year, over the 2,6_per_cent of the economy of the conjunct of the Spanish State, the '1,9_per_cent of the conjunct of the European zone and the '1,7_per_cent of countries like Germany. And that has to be made clear, because they're data, and they're contrasting data. A recovery may be uneven mass, but a steady, continuous recovery characterized by an increase in the weight of the industrial sector and of the internationalization of the economy, both for the capture of investments and exports. A good march of our economy ignored by the doors of certain pressures and by the altarpieces of the establishment, more concerned to discredit the independence movement than not to do the work that touched them. The impact of the covid-19 put an end to this recovery, with a historical value of GDP of more than 11.5_per_cent. A substantial impact on trade, transportation, inn, which looked like its added value around 25.5_per_cent. Nevertheless, the Government of the Generality has made it clear. There were no false dilemmas: in a context of pandemics, sailing for salvation also means protecting the economy. So we did two things: we applied restrictions when it came to calibre, yes, but we were also the ones who helped the most from the Spanish State. The alternative – there is no mistake – was not to protect the economy, but to defend privilege. And before that, we chose not to leave anyone behind. The good margin of the Catalan economy since 2021 validates this strategy: a 5,8_per_cent increase during 2021 in services and with industry in the lead, with a 6,3_per_cent increase, respectively. They tell them the data, and if they happen to foreigner, they also tell them the international press, which, unlike Spanish, is independent and is outside the influence of IBEX. For this reason, if you read the state press a lot, you would think that Catalonia is in economic decline, but if you read the Financial Times, you will be aware that Catalonia is the best European region to invest in it. Nevertheless, the speech of the spokespersons of the opposition of certain sectors of the establishment and the same ones who spoke of decay in time of recovery seems to be living from the scene to this reality. There is a particularly insidious, catastrophic speech, which, moreover, presents Madrid's counter-example as it is expected to follow, while ignoring that the Community of Madrid is the European region where the hope of life has been reduced by the covid-19– 3.5 years–, and that while in Madrid the weather is falling until the 11th,85_per_cent, Catalonia is maintained. We say: neither salvation nor economy, only privileges. And the privilege is endemic to economic growth. The privilege does not create wealth, but captures it; it does not generate work, but comes close to it. As the Nobel Prize in Economics Joseph Stiglitz describes, inequality is the cause and consequence of the weakness of the political system and contributes to the instability of our economic system, which, in turn, contributes to increasing inequality. For this reason, and because we want to break this spiral of inequality, our conviction is that recovery must be at the service of economic transformation and also of social transformation, of a more innovative and sustainable economy that competes in knowledge and added value, and not in precariousness and contamination. That's why we don't want to talk about dams, but about transformation. We do not want a parenthesis, but a point of inflection: the mobilization of European foundations, the awareness that has implied the impact of the covid to build a more inclusive, more equitable economy; the urgency of the ecological transition to cope with climate change. The opportunity to transform the Catalan economy is today and we have to take advantage of it. We don't need a no that paralyzes the country or a yes to do the same as always and do the same as always. An opportunity that knows how to take advantage, for example, of the landing of wires like ISE, that bet for the territory, that is due to end this week in Barcelona. We think that the Catalan audiovisual industry is a sector made up of 3,600 companies and that it makes 6,700_million euros a year. It's a good investment-gathering initiative. I'll give you an example of what we're doing. In 2008, a company of automotive components, Freudenberg, announced the closure of its Zona Franca plant, which affected 141 workers. In 2009, an ERO affected one hundred_five of the one hundred_five workers in the Parets factory. But 2022 announced 10_million euros to open a new factory of Parets components that you put on for renewable energies and not for the use of fossil fuels. They did so after President Aragonès and Councillor Torrent met them in Baden-Württemberg. In 2008, the tancava industry; in 2022, the industry bets for Catalonia to invest-hi and to do so in a sustainable way. You have the war situation in Ukraine and its economic impact, as well as the increase in energy prices and the post-cow logistical blister, put us in a different situation. And there is no doubt about it: we photograph it, we diagnose it and we work there, because we are deputies of territories directly affected by this problem, but we must avoid the receptions to combat foreign inflation and growth. There is a virtuous solution: addressing the causes that cause higher prices, guaranteeing returns and guaranteeing growth. We don't have to fall into the mistake of returning to internal devaluation, of charging the fight against inflation to the scales of working people while the richest percent get benefits remembering with price increases. And that's why we need to keep picking up investments. That this government continued the work that is being done. And it's hard for me to know that Mr. Carrizosa isn't here, because he would also answer to this devilish stager that we find ourselves, with the capture, in the end, of investments, and that he was trying to expose us here today, in this hemicicle. Gentlemen, the Generalitat captures 612_millions of foreign investment in 2021. It's the tallest syllabus in the history series. By means of the Action agency, the Department of Enterprise and Work has received a 20-per-cent increase in foreign investment compared to the previous year. A total of eighty-two foreign investment projects – one set_per_cent more – have materialized, involving the creation of 3,122 job places – one thirty-set_per_cent more – and the maintenance of 2,478 additional places – one hundred_divuit_per_cent more. Two _of_each_three euros of foreign investment have been earmarked for industrial projects, while highlighting investments from the United States, Germany, Regne Unit, France, Japan or the Xina. You enter the head – and I refer to the lords who have machiavels data on us from the table –..., when I go to visit these companies that are located in the territory, that have lost the head? That they're in a place where there's a tax inferno? They haven't lost their heads: they bet on the territory. I insist, they bet for the territory in one of the most difficult economic contexts and full of uncertainties of the last decades. We've struck the historical memory in terms of the correct reversal. This investment volume means that we've picked up a median of 1.6 million euros each day. In total, eighty-two investment projects have materialized, generating 3,122 jobs. We are aware that the government works without rest to attract investments, and we are aware, too, that there have been important announcements in which we carry the legislature. That is why, Counsellor Torrent, we wanted to take advantage of the occasion because we could value these announcements and the capture of investments in the Catalan economy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.57.0	The word has Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.58.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I will begin with a question of limited topicality, which the Member has also commented on and which, indeed, is very much connected to the global strategy that is being followed by the Government of the Generality, and which then has its concrete impacts, its impacts that materialize in our country. I'll actually talk about the ISE, huh? , precisely, which today we have been able to inaugurate, a fira on the audiovisual sector, the audiovisual sector in Europe ; in fact, the most recognized and most relevant as at least on the European continent, not to say the world, and, therefore, a more element that helps to position Catalonia and Barcelona on the map, in this case, of the audiovisual sector. A sector that last year invested 50_million euros in our country, xifra remembers all the history series. That's to say, if we take the last few years and look at the evolution, we'll see how 2021 was the year when the audiovisual sector picked up more foreign investment in Catalonia, this 50_million euros. That, basically, is for two things. On one side, because here there is a good ecosystem, certainly, these more than 3,600 businesses that you commented, that give jobs to 31,000 Catalans and Catalans, that are an attraction factor. That is to say, foreign businesses, when they want to invest, obviously, are fixed there where there is talent, where there is this ecosystem that we have been able to create here. And at the same time, this foreign investment is fuelling this ecosystem, so that today, for example, Catalonia has two times more start-ups linked to the audiovisual sector than five years ago. That's the virtuous circle, huh? , precisely, that we want to promote from Action, from the Department of Enterprise and Work, for which it does to all foreign investment capture policies. And it's worth explaining, 'cause that's good, good, actually, huh? And it's worth putting it on the table, and it's also worth explaining, precisely, with the same will that explaining those successful initiatives will help, then, fuel this foreign investment to Catalonia. And, in fact, that's fine not to say it's just us; it's said the data, of a band, but it's also said, indeed, the Financial Times, which a few weeks ago highlighted Action as the best agency of competitiveness of a European region of the great names, which has the best strategy of attracting foreign investment to Catalonia. But, as I said, this isn't just rhetoric, they're not just headlines, but it's concrete in our day-to-day. Specifically, the year 2021, with 612_million euros of investment to our country; 612_million euros of investment that correspond to all that investment accounted for by the Government of the Government of Catalonia because we have intervened in some way. There is a part of the reversal that is not accounted for, in these 612, that also existed in 2021 but that did not intervene, the Government of the Government of Catalonia. As it goes, it's xifra, again, I remember the whole history series. If we take it from 1985 until now, 2021 is the year that we have been able to capture the most foreign investment in our country, even a context of obvious socio-economic complexity, because 2021 was still coming out of the box – very obvious difficulties from a point of view, from an economic point of view, from a point of view to a health point of view, still. And, still, we've remembered what makes this foreign investment capture in Catalonia. This is largely due, as we say, to the work done by Action, which is well valued at international level, but also to dynamics at European and global level which I firmly believe we need to be able to take advantage of. I'll explain. We are in a process in which all the disruptions of the chains of administration and supply at the global level of any raw material, of any type of transport – even if we have to add the disruptions in the energy market – have generated a situation in which good part of the enterprises of any sector, but mainly of the industrial field, are relocating production to Europe for security, to be more close to the markets, to be more close to the decision-making centres. This process of relocation, reshoring, to the continent or around the continent of Europe is a context that we need to take advantage of to help attract even more investments. And we're doing it, I insist, huh? : 612_million euros captured in 2021, assuming a twenty-yield_per_cent more than 2020 and that they are the highest xifra of all the historical series. This supposes that, during the year 2021, we have captured 1,6_million euros each day in foreign investment, 1,6_million euros each day is what we have learned from foreign investment to our country, which has resulted in eighty-two projects that have generated 3,122 jobs; therefore, they have contributed decisively to the generation of shared prosperity, which in the end is our furthest from the political objectives. In any case, it is demonstrated, therefore, that both the task of the Department of Enterprise and Work – and here, of course, I think we have to recognize the whole historical trajectory, not only in this period, of course, but all the work that has been done over the years – as specifically the task that Action does is worth a lot. It is worth it that two_of_each_three euros that have been captured have been in industrial projects. Therefore, it helps in this process of reindustrialisation, which is not only a cornerstone of the political agenda of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but a shared objective for most Members. Of these investments, we say, two_of_each_three euros are in industrial projects, and two_of_each_three jobs created are linked to technology. So industry 4.0, which is the future of industry, which is the way to reindustrialisation. In any case, it said it was worth it, the work that Actio does, as the agency of competitiveness. In fact, for every euro of public pressure devoted to foreign investment capture, we can get 221 – from one to 221 –; for every public worker dedicated to foreign investment capture in our country, we generate 134 jobs – for every public worker, 134 jobs. For each euro destined for the network of Offices of Action, which, as you know, are forty offices run by the planet, run by the world, these offices that some hold day after day also here, from this Faristol, of « chiringuitos, the famous « chiringuitos..., yes, in a part of these famous chiringuitos there are the forty Offices of Action. Well, for each euro destined for the office network – these little bars for some – you get thirty-eight euros of private investment. For each euro, thirty-seven; for each worker, 134 places of work; for each euro of public budget earmarked for this purpose, 221 foreign investment envelopes. 2021, I come back, I remember what he does to this question. And if we look, as we said before, at the sector, we must see that two of the three euros are industrial projects, which, as we have said, helps to strengthen the government's dynamism and willingness to reindustrialize the country. And they went specifically to the technology subsectors – of the technological field – of automotive and chemistry, which also correspond to the ecosystems in which we are best positioned, in fact, from an industrial point of view to our country. In fact, they coincide with the country's most export sectors, especially the automotive and chemical sectors. Two_of_each_three euros have gone to industry, and specifically to these three sectors. And the origin, the Member said very well..., above all they are from Europe, fifty-seven per cent, by proximity, obviously, but also a twenty-two per cent come from America, above all from the United States, and, in the case of Europe, above all from Germany. In any case, the reversal comes from a plurality of origins. In fact, until twenty-two countries; the origin of the investments..., come from twenty-two countries, during 2021. And, as we say, the main route of entry is Action's offices, which show its usefulness. And for what he does to the motius– and that's very important... That's to say, we ask ourselves: the figures are good, at the international level he recognizes Action, but why companies trien Catalunya to invest? Why do you want to come to our country to plan your projects? Well, from the start, because they find it talented, that it's fun, especially in areas of technological character. Therefore, there is an ecosystem that is able to attract and fix talent, and this is a positive or highly valued element for businesses that want to invest in Catalonia. Secondly, the quality of life of our country. And this has to do, obviously, with the climate, it has to do with the way we live, but it also has to do with the public servants of the country: with the schools, with the hospitals..., with all the public policies that we can generate. And don't lose sight of this, because it's also a differential factor, from an economic point of view. In any case, the elements in place offered by Catalonia today are attractive for foreign investments, for the world's project. So much so that, in fact, 2021 we had a long time, and we propose that 2022 continue this dynamic, because it is good for the generation of jobs, the creation of wealth and the reindustrialization of the country, which is our goal. Thank you, Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.59.0	Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about tourist policies, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented to advance. [[Question to the Government on tourism policies]] [[300-00164/13]] And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr. Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.60.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor... well, that being in post-covid process is still a little complicated, even though I've given away denial, huh? [[Rialles.]] So let everyone be calm, but it is true that I still have some of its consequences. Well, good afternoon. Counselor, as the title of our inquiry says, basically what we want to know is who the government's tourist policies are. For months now... we have already made an inquiry in November, precisely respecting this question, but it was already much more of a question than the government's strategic lines. We understood that, in addition, it did little that the government, therefore, had conformed, did little that it had presented its work plan, and, therefore, we wanted to know these much more strategic lines, didn't we? Now what we would be interested in, since we are on the verge of a new summer season, is a very important season for the tourism sector, which, moreover, is preceded by a very good Holy Week..., therefore, we will want to know who are the concrete actions that have been carried out precisely in order to face, therefore, this summer season. It's true, a season that in principle, therefore, there will be no restrictions, at least there won't be the same ones as last year, but it's also true that there are uncertainties, right? The war in Ukraine, without any doubt, is one. So this will also condition us very much the market, the Russian market and the Asian market, won't it? And surely inflation will also have its impact on the prices. In a sector like tourism, priests, so... it's very sensitive to priests. In any case, it will certainly affect us one way or another, won't it? I was talking about the fire that opened this morning. Moreover, this has caused, for example, hotels in Barcelona to be at the eighty-five per cent of their capacity, but it is true that at a high price under the year 2019. So, the inquiry, Mr. Counselor, goes this way, doesn't it? We want to know how we face the new summer season, the actions that have come to an end and that lasts long, therefore, in the matter of promotion and marketing; in this current context, what are the potential markets and how are they working from the department; in short, as we face the tourist season, right? Obviously, there's some evidence for optimism. Before I said it: Holy Week, without any doubt, has been a success. The sector is recovering. We are, therefore, in very similar data to the year 2019. There's a lot of travel to do. I'd say more: I think she needed it, huh? To travel and to pass the page of this evil. So it's very important, too, and very necessary. And I also here... In addition, in some question and in the last question I also insisted on this subject, I suppose also for my previous responsibility as a deputy of Tourism of the Barcelona City Council. He insisted very much on the need for coordination among all the administrations, led, obviously, by the Government of Catalonia, to work in coordination – assemblies, parliaments – in a common strategy, a unique strategy in what we have called the « integral tourism marketing plan, which in any case we would also like to know, counselor, at what point is it found. Therefore, the whole marketing plan, which, in addition to the joint work, therefore, with the different administrations, must also be the result of the concertation with the economic sector. It is also true that there are indeed data, Counselor, that we are concerned, right? , which also reflects a certain lack of competitiveness respect other destinations in the state, and which we already warned in our November inquiry. If we analyze, for example, the data of foreign tourists who visited us, the year 2019 was the first tourist destination of Espanya. We went to 19.3_million foreign tourists, which represented 23.3_percent of the total state. 2021 represents 18.5_per_cent. They are 5.7 million foreign tourists and we are no longer the first destination, we have become the second destination. In fact, of all the communities that we could say are the main tourist destinations of the State, we have been the most reduced of foreign tourists we have encountered in the period 2019-2021, with a drop of more than seventy_per_cent. The Balearic Islands did not change a 53,7_per_cent and became the first destination, and the Canary Islands, a sixty_per_cent. I can also remember that, besides, we have a higher offer, huh? , to the Balearic Islands. Specifically, the Islands have 443,000 places of tourist accommodation regulated; we have 607,000. So there's a difference of about 150,000 places. Also– and this is obvious– the pandemic has certainly fostered certain tourist destinations, such as the Balearic Islands or Canaries, a more land-based and flat tourism, and in Catalonia, therefore, we have a much more diversified tourism, on Barcelona, plus, play a key role, and therefore, here we have a much more urban tourism. And it is true – to say it, to acknowledge it – that the year before this city tourism suffered a lot, and therefore this is certainly also one of the consequences of why we have had this important davalada in the name of foreign tourists. But surely it has also helped that... for the other destinations that have surpassed us, surely, man, so they have also done their dues, right? , in the promotion-related issue, and, more importantly, they have advanced to a new model in tourism management. Balears, for example, has already approved a new tourism law. We... in any case, I will refer to it later, that it is also one of the questions on which today in my inquiry I also want to inquire. And another time that we are also concerned about, that it also reflects an index of competitiveness, is the tourist expense; the tourist expense, the average expense, in this case, that the tourists leave when they visit us, right? , because in the end it does not cease to be an index, as I said, of the quality of our tourism. In Catalonia 2019 was 1,100_euros per person, the average expenditure; 2021 is 954_euros, the average expenditure. That means almost fourteen per cent less. This was probably linked to the downsizing of the city of Barcelona. No doubt that's what this is. It is likely enough, but in any case, we would also like to know whether you, as in the department, have been able to analyse this situation, and therefore also to examine who were not these possible causes, understand, therefore, as I say, that the year 2021 was not a normal year, from the touristic point of view. But, well, in any case, miri, the Balearic Islands, therefore, 2019 had 1,085_euros per person of average expenditure; 2021, 1,150_euros. Therefore, they increased it in a six_per_cent. Therefore, as I said, I believe that we should also reflect, and therefore also ask him for his opinion of respect. And another subject that we would also like to deal with in this inquiry is around the management of tourism in Catalonia; concretely, on the new law of tourism in Catalonia. It seemed that this was one of the government's priorities, and it seemed because we didn't know what time it was. We're in May. The month of disembarkation, if I am not mistaken, from the department was made, therefore, in any case, a first document that marked the strategic lines of where to go this new law of tourism, but it is not entirely new, and, I repeat, we are in the month of May. And that, therefore, concerns the tourism sector. At least those entities that we've been able to bring together worry about, right? This silence of the government respects the handling of the law. And, I repeat, we're in May and we don't know anything about this new law. A new law that, obviously, is absolutely necessary. Today is the year 2002, and it is clear that many things have happened. I can give you a new focus, can't I? , to the tourism in Catalonia. I need to adapt it, this law, at the present time. Cal a model of governance for tourism. It is also necessary to incorporate sustainability criteria into the sector. And so, as I said, we also have a certain negity about which moment the law is found, which is the calendar that the department has planned to be able to do its parliamentary processing. And, I repeat, I think the sector expects it. And anyway, since I'm running out of time, I'll leave it here. And in the reply, then, we will continue to advance in the question. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.61.0	The word has Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.62.0	Thank you again, President. Congressman, it has to be said that, while it's very recent, it's getting pretty good, huh? I hope he's recovered from everything as soon as possible. Miri, this morning he was also participating in the opening of the Touristic, huh? , the draft edition of the field of reflection that tries to connect two strategic areas for the country's economy, such as, of one band, tourism, obviously, and, of the other, the new technologies, and, therefore, how can these two mons be fed back into an element that forms an indestriable part not only of the economic history of Catalonia, but must continue to feel it in the future. In these days, as we have already done here in the Parliament of Catalonia, in committee, in this plenary, in all the debates that we have been doing not only around tourism, but also the conjunction of the economic sectors and in relation to the times that we are living, we can distinguish between two stages or two moments or two objectives, we can say: from one band, the most peremptory, the most urgent, the recovery, but a recovery that we must not take where we were, but we must be able to reactivate ourselves in order to transform ourselves. And this is especially so in the tourism sector, a sector in which, in fact, 2019 we struck records, visitors' records, economic impact records, just before the covid– so, we were just in a period of unequivocal growth, from this point of view – but at the same time it already drew some of the strands that are absolutely essential to approach in the new tourism model. In other words, 2019 was just in this period of growth, but it was already dawning, we see who are the elements, the master lines of action that we need to approach the sector. And, after almost two years of paralyzing, this was more urgent than ever. In any case, with this double objective that I said before, that of recovery and that of transformation for what it does to recovery, what have we done since the Government of the Government of Catalonia in the last few months? So here we did two measurements in the same line, but different sign. On one side, we've developed a whole series of direct aid. In fact, we are the territory of the State that most direct aid has made to the productive sectors, to the economic sectors, to the people, that is to say, to the workers and workers most directly affected by the situation of the covid. In fact, we have mobilised more than EUR 3,180_million. I insist, the territory that the most money, in this sense, has devoted to direct aid. And, on the other hand, we have started some consumption-stimulating, activity-stimulating measures in the period since the generation... November, more or less, of 2021– which is exactly the most or least period in which you asked me last– until Holy Week, which was the campaign of Estalviatge, huh? , in which we mobilized 1_million_i_mig euros and which worked very well to stimulate this inner tourism, which, on the other hand, was the key element that saved the sector in this period of covid. That's what he does for the recovery. But, I insist, our will is not to recover to return to March 2019, but to recover to transform. And, in this sense, I am going to some of the questions that you have raised very concretely. Our intention is to mark or determine which is the game mark of this new tourist model that has to prevail in the country for the next few years. And this is an empire, a demand, this definition of a new model, which has to do with global behaviors, certainly, but above all the positioning of the Catalonia brand at the touristic level of the world. It is not only the question of the definition of this new model, a matter strictly materially respecting how this sector interacts with the immediate environment, already from a point of view of the natural environment, of the natural resources that the country has, of our cities, of how it interacts with the barrels of the cities with the most touristic, etc., but also of how and what values it projects from a point of view of brand, because today the visitor who asks is a series of principles and values associated with the tourist brand that we are able to project – if not, we will lose competitiveness. And from this point of view, we want to agree to this tourist model, because it is essential that we agree to it. However, it would be useful to lay down a number of master lines if they are not agreed with the sector as a whole, of all the actors in the sector. Therefore, we are working on this consensus, and it is obvious that it is not as fast as we would like, because it has to work and we are working it. Actually, we've already approved, as you know, the preliminary memo, we've done the prior public consultation process. And we calculate, answer your direct question, that we can have the law approved in the first half of 2023, huh? So, one year from now, this law, which must be a structural law for the sector, but especially to deal with what you see, you can enter the Parliament of Catalonia, and then you will depend on the parliamentary groups, who can make the contributions that they think are appropriate. But it will already come with this anticipated consent, which, I say again, is essential if we are to speak of a law defined as the new law of tourism. A tourism law that will define a model that we previously wanted to work with the national commitment for responsible tourism, huh? And that's actually where we want the law to go, where we want this model to go, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it to be, where we want it, where we want it to be, where we want it to talk about the economy of the visitor – and this is already a symptom of where things, where things are, where things are, where things are going, and where things are, and where things are, and where things are, and where things are, and where we want to be, In any case, we want this compromise to come into law, but not only, but also in the new strategic plan 2023-2027. That is to say, what concrete actions do we make during these years to sell us, to explain to us the different markets at global level. And also, obviously, the new marketing plan, which you also claimed and which, obviously, is a basic tool for making this broadcast. Of course, you said: "And with regard to the marketing plan and the dissemination that we are making, to what markets are we leading? Well, there's a market we've been working on specifically and in a very intense way, which is the North American market, huh? In fact, a few days ago we were able to participate..., in fact, I was able to visit a workshop that we did through the Catalan Tourist Agency precisely to put us in contact with American tour operators with very concrete travel offers, with very specific tourist offer, for certain very concrete publics that bring added value, huh? That they bring this increase in the average expenditure which you also claimed and which, of course, is our objective. And, in fact, the overall objective is a tourism of higher quality in this sense, and therefore that it brings more expense to our country. And, in this sense, the American market is key. To this end, we have allocated EUR 830,000, and it is the largest donation of the Catalonia tourist brand to the North American market. Therefore, and I summarize in this first turn of this question – after we will certainly continue to talk about it – we come, of course, from a very complicated situation, very complex for the sector, which, of course, we must seek to recover, which we must seek to react. And that's why we've helped deploy these more than €3,180 million to help all sectors and workers. That we have also begun to stimulate consumption and activity in these months until Holy Week; that we foresee a good campaign, the same way that was a good Holy Week, and that, in any case, this should serve not to satisfy us, but to stimulate the transformation work of the tourism model, which is essential. I have said this in this House, I repeat today: the objective..., one of the main objectives of the Department of Enterprise and Treball, and in this case, specifically for the tourism sector, is the realization of this national commitment for a responsible tourism model in agreement with the sector, in political agreement with parliamentary groups, because, indeed, we are playing the transition of a sector that has been key to explaining the economy from the cities and municipalities of our country to the actual years. In any case, I'm sure we'll continue the discussion later, Congressman. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.63.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.64.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Very briefly, counselor. The truth is we agree, don't we? And I think we're quite in line with what you've said about the sector. Actually, go, we agree, as I said, and I believe that a large majority of this chamber also coincides in the fronts of the tourist sector. So, listen to me, let's get to work there. You gave it to me one time, didn't you? respect what the government's will is to approve the new tourism law. If I didn't get it wrong, about a year from now, in principle, the government's will is that it's approved. That means... I don't know the parliamentary terms, but I understand that you will have to enter into parliamentary discussion now so that you can fulfill those terms that the government has just set itself. That's so good. And anyway, we've already said, you'll find us in an active way, won't you? , to participate in promoting and approving the best possible law, obviously, of the hand, also, of the sector. Therefore, one of the questions I had, or questions, was the question of the calendar, and it was already very clear to me. And we are very clear, like the parliamentary group, that we clearly have an opportunity, with this new law, to transform tourism and make a real tourism in the 21st century. But, as I was saying, it can't take any longer in time, can it? Because this law, among other things, also has to be guaranteed is, as you said, competitiveness as a tourist destination. Therefore, it also means the competitiveness of our tourist offer; it also means diversifying our tourist products; it also means decentralizing our offer; it means incorporating the new technologies, the big data, therefore, which is a key element, and which, moreover, the 2002 law obviously does not refer to these questions. In short, as we guarantee Catalonia's competitiveness as a tourist destination. I'm done. And in any case, I would ask you... because I was talking about the law and I was talking about pushing a more tourism-related issue too, but what I'm asking is that I'm satisfied with the motion that this chamber approved and you're pushing a national tourism pact, because that's approved – plus, it's approved with a large majority of Members. And, in addition, I think it's necessary to do so, as well as not to anticipate the new law. In fact, the sector is also asking for it. It doesn't seem to me that it was the month of March, that Pimec Turisme precisely organized some days under the title Bases for a sectoral pact for tourism, for a national pact for tourism, right? Therefore, I think it would be essential to do so. I think it would also be a step forward in this necessary concertation with the economic sector. And more. Mr. Counselor, in any case, therefore, ask you to push this national tourism pact along with the motion approved by this chamber. And more. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.65.0	I, finally, have the word Business and Work Councilor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.66.0	Indeed, honourable Member, the law is an instrument not only to regulate those realities and those operators at the tourist level that in 2002 did not exist and there were no forecasts that they existed, so to speak, huh? Obviously, as in all sectors, but in this particular area, in the last fifteen years, there has been a very great evolution. And, therefore, it is logical that, from a regulatory point of view, the law adapts to these new realities. But the law is not only important for this – all that this is appropriate – but also to define, effectively, which model of tourism we want for our own years. And this is the part that actually needs more consensus, because it is the part that must be able to survive the different legislatures, survive the different visions that may exist at a certain time to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, until and until it can contain a very broad majority as to why the composition of Parliament, whatever it is, remains a clear bet for the sector, with requirements and principles to be granted. This is a process that we understand to be basic, because, if there's no such basic agreement, it's still grinning much more. And, therefore, we are working on this agreement with the aim, as I say, of regulating certain realities that are not present today. President, I don't think you've set the time for me. I'm not inconvenient, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. All right. It said that regulation to the law is important, but at the same time, the definition of this model, which, basically, must be a model that brings us, effectively, to the deseasonalization, so that tourism is able to plant, it can enjoy the conjunction of the year, not at very marked points during the calendar – so, deseasonalization – ; deconcentration, which reaches the conjunction of the geography of the country – in time of covid there has been a rediscovery of certain touristic fates, and we need to be sure that this is the case, huh? , and, therefore, that the tourist offer incorporates all the fantastic reasons of our country, and, therefore, deconcentrate also the tourist pressure–, and, finally, as we have said before, that it generates a visitor who has a higher economic impact than we have at these times. Because, indeed, tourism has many potentials that we need to know how to resort to, but at the same time it does have externalities that we also need to know regularly. In any case – and I finish – you claimed a national pact. I talked to him about national compromises. I don't know if the name does the thing or not, huh? What is important here is, indeed, that there is the basis of this great agreement, that there is a holistic view, that is to say, of the sector, in its transversality, but also with a focus on the future, that is where things go – we must be able to look more there – that we lack the consensus of the sector and political, and, finally, that it consists of concrete commitments, concrete actions, because it is not merely rhetorical, it is not just literature, but it must be brought down to the ground of concrete actions. I insist, I don't know if the name does the thing. In any case, the vocation to generate this compromise as wide as possible is – in fact, we are working – and we are convinced that we will be able to relax it, not because we will insist very much – that too – but because I believe that everyone is aware of how necessary today is to face the post-covid world with new bases, also from the point of view of the tourist offer that we are able to generate. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-10-3001.67.0	So we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you very much.
