ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.1.0	Good morning. The session begins. The list of questions to be answered orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's file, and, according to Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this same morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session... [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Did you ask for the word, Mr. Garriga? I couldn't even end up with the welcome... Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.2.0	Yes, on the basis of whether there are any delegated votes and in these delegated votes is that of the fugitive of justice Lluís Puig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.3.0	There is a first principle of prudence, which is that if you let me finish, you have answered your question. Therefore, I will continue to tell you that the fact is that four Members have delegated their vote for this plenary session. And in these four deputies is included the deputy Lluís Puig's delegated vote. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.4.0	I, President, after the applause for the cacicada [[remorse of the voice]] I'd like to know, to know... before this new disobedience to the Constitutional Court, to know the opinion of the people. And, therefore, he would demand the suspension of the plenary so as to know the opinion of the people of this chamber on this violation and this violation of a provision of the Constitutional Court, because it is an attack on the state of law and democracy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.5.0	So I can inform you that the Bureau, for the most part, agreed yesterday, having listened to all the indications given to us by the major electorate, we decided to agree to maintain the voting delegation of Mr Lluís Puig. [[Pause.]] Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.6.0	Yes, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Rule 90 and for a principle of prudence, would recommend to the Bureau that you read Rule 95, which stipulates in which circumstances it is possible to delegate the vote. In this case, you're going to get rid of the disease you believe in. And I believe that Mr. Lluís Puig is neither pregnant nor ill, he is fleeing justice. And that's why we've registered right now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.7.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.8.0	...a petition to the Bureau to reconsider its position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.9.0	Have you recorded this review yet? [[Pause.]] One moment, I'll see if he's arrived. [[Long break.]] Indeed, I have just received his request for reconsideration and, therefore, the Bureau will respond to this request for reconsideration after the monitoring session, to which we will not continue. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Previously, according to the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year there are a total of 957 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. And, therefore, let's move to the first of the points of the order of the day, which are the questions with oral answer. [[Ask the Government about access to social services]] [[310-00327/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on access to social benefits. The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno, Member of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. His department manages half of the services that are the competence of the Government of Catalonia. You have the technical and human team to make these performance vagina forward. But it doesn't work. You have set up Catalonia as an autonomous community on a permanent waiting list. What do you think a retired person deserves to expect 304 days to pay his non-contributory retirement benefit?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.11.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Yes, Mr. Congressman, you did well. In fact, the Directorate-General for Services manages a volume of €1,300_million in services, reaching some 400,000 beneficiaries at these times. And it's true, the waiting lists in many of the managements are long, but as the department we're working on and we're improving these waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.13.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.14.0	Madam Counselor, I would like to insist on a few examples, also with which I explained earlier: three hundred_four_days to create a non-contributory retirement benefit. We are the second autonomous community that we later do this process. Aragon or Balearic Islands take one month; we take ten months; 161_days in the case of a non-contributory disability benefit, we take twice as long as it takes..., as a citizen of Madrid has to expect. It is necessary to wait more than a year for them to recognize a simple degree of disability, or a year and a half to access a dependency benefit. A supersonic speed if we compare it to the two years a person with intellectual disability has to wait to access a residential space; seven years in the case of him living in the West Valley; twelve years in the case of him living in the Tarragonès, or up to fourteen years in the case of him living in the Baix Llobregat. These are data from his Government, extracted from the Transparency Portal, often also denounced by third-sector entities, who also complain of delays in the collection of their regular subsidies. The government's engine's got a flu. This isn't going, Counselor, or it's going too slow. You have turned Catalonia – I insist – into a country on a permanent waiting list. It is urgent to computerize and to make the administrative procedure much more effective. I have given you an example of the benefits that fall within your competence. You may be tempted to blame others for your own management problems. I only ask you, with all due respect, not to demand from others what is not capable of self-demanding. What are you going to do, Madam Counselor, to make the machine in your department work? What are you going to do, or, ultimately, how much longer will we have to wait to stop waiting, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.15.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.16.0	Thank you very much, President. You're talking about a midjana. It is true, it is a medium that is great, of about three hundred days; but it is a medium that is donated, especially in the PNCs, as you commented, especially for the time of covet in which they came. Many shippers, at that time they were left in jail and now, the recovery of these shippers is not an easy task, because again they have to re-inform themselves, they have to re-inquire the corresponding papers from the people who ask for these contributions. As he said, the Government of the Generalitat – not at this stage, but in the previous stage – began with a process of digital transformation of the important department, which is yielding its fruits at these moments. You were talking about the PNCs, and it is true that the average is three hundred days; but the waiting days for you to get a PNC at these times, it is already one or two days, or two or three weeks, depending on the documentation you ask these citizens. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Congressman, that's what happens to the department. There are some services that need to be reviewed again, because they are, as I said, petitions of the covid era, basically of the year 2020, but at these times the department is working and you know that we are determined to be able to change all this administrative machinery that certainly makes the processing very easy. You know that 30 million euros of European funds have been allocated to the betterment of these administered procedures. In more than a hundred procedures administered, at these times, it is already working, to be able to improve them, and that, obviously, little by little, therefore, it has been adapted. Therefore, the priority of the department is to be able to end these waiting lists, but above all to end the waiting lists for administrative and procedural questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.17.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the guarantee of compulsory schooling of special education students of the Can Vila School, Mollet del Vallès. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of compulsory schooling of special education students of the Can Vila School of Mollet de Vallès (Eastern Valley)]] [[310-00328/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mireia Dionisio, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.18.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, counselor; and very good morning also to the direction and to the APA of the special school Can Vila, which today accompany us. Counselor, as you will know, Can Vila is a special education school, with one hundred and sixty students, of twenty-four municipalities and three different districts, the Vallesos and the Barcelones. In the words of his own department, an intermunicipal school. And I would say, too, that intercomarchal. A school that the Department of Education has been expanding during these years: a first performance in 2002 and a second performance in 2015; two actions to cover the high demand that the Generality had copied. The department has known that the provisional modules installed in 2002, where there are seventy students between thirteen and twenty-one years of age, are no longer able to use their own course for safety reasons. Now, the department tells us that they can't do what the year 2015 has already done, that it's impossible for them to apologize for legal and bureaucratic issues, and they pose, as the only solution, to take children to a Mollet primary school; a solution that the educational community totally disapproves for the welfare of children. And a solution that the family and the local world totally reject. But, counselor, I am not sorry, that Mollet's Assembly announced today that it will act in a subsidiary way before the inactivity of the department. Considering that compulsory schooling is the competence of the department, and that the Can Vila School gives a supramunicipal service, how does it intend to guarantee the present and future schooling in this school?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.19.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.20.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, us, from the Department of Education, as it can't be in any other way, what we do is guarantee the schooling of all the children and young people in this country. And we'll do it from September 5th, obviously, too, at the Can Vila special education school in Mollet, despite the fact that she left the assembly, she didn't do what she had in the past few years. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We are in front of a municipal center and in the municipal centers...; all the mayors who are here know that the Department of Education, which does in a municipal center of ownership, is to guarantee the teachers and educators, and together it has to take care of the maintenance. Mollet's Assembly has not been in charge of maintaining the last years of this special education centre. Therefore, despite this situation and despite the fact that the assembly did not act, we, like the Department of Education, which we do guarantee..., we do guarantee that September 5th will begin the course for all the students, with the best conditions, at the Can Vila special education centre, in Mollet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.21.0	In answer, the word "Mireia Dionisio" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.22.0	Counselor, the answer has been very disappointing, and I don't know if it's unconscious or bad faith. Stop apologizing on legal and bureaucratic issues. Compulsory schooling is your thing, the provisional modules of the year 2002 are your thing [[applause]] , the only one is owned by the Generality and the school gives coverage to twenty-and-four municipalities. We only ask them to do what they want: invest in education. I let him know that we feel completely abandoned and ask him to reflect on the role that the department is having in this sense. We need your commitment to invest in the Can Vila School; now, and in a future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.23.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.24.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, municipal centre; it is a special municipal education centre, of municipal ownership. Therefore, the Department of Education places all the teachers, all the educators, and the assemblies, as in all the municipal centers, in charge of maintenance. And Mollet's board hasn't done it in years. Despite this, from the Education Department we guarantee this schooling, we guarantee the continuity of the education project, the Can Vila special education centre, we value all options – all options – both for what it does in space – and we have to do it together with the Assembly – from institutional loyalty. And we will also appreciate, therefore, who are the possibilities that, for what he does to the Can Vila special education center, they also have at the time of giving coverage to these expenses. I'll give you an example. There's some special municipal education center that, like the student, like you very well said, is intermunicipal. What they do is share maintenance expenses with the joints. There's a deal for Granollers and it's with Montserrat Montero. Therefore, the Can Vila school can also make this convenient, and we have placed the joint to do so. And, if I may, from the Department of Education what we do is give response to all the needs of the education system to the extent that we can do so. In Mollet we are currently working for more than 8_million euros at the Mollet Institute, one of the largest investments in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.25.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the loss of health services. [[Ask the Government about the loss of health services]] [[310-00329/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.26.0	Thank you. Good morning, President. Good morning, Counselor. He said the president of the Barcelona Metges College a few days ago: "The healthcare system will collaps this summer due to lack of resources if no immediate action is taken. The increase of the covid, the merescud holidays of the professionals, the lists of hope accumulated make the situation untenable. In fact, you recognized it yourself when you recommended that we not go to the CAP. Recommends to all citizens that, if I can avoid it, do not go to the CAP. Also the mayors tell him..., fixed's, this week the mayors of the Eastern Valley denounce the precariousness of the attention that their fellow citizens receive, also the Maresme or the Baix Llobregat, where we have experienced demonstrations. They also pity the mayors of the tourist areas, because they do not see the increments of staff to deal with the needs of these months. You've made a few announcements this week – by the way, you're criticizing empty announcements, but we wouldn't say that your announcements contain much. More stone, more professional roles, but neither meth nor infirmary. Counselor, they call resources, they call reforms, they call it a shambles, and you say it all. Do you think, counselor, that we are dealing with this difficult crisis that we are experiencing in our health care system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.27.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.28.0	President, Member of the Commission, health care is guaranteed, as is the case every summer. Certainly, there are reorderings, as well as each summer, and in fact, we have the same ones you serve now, today, the year 22 that, for example, we have the year 19, and we have 9,4_million to reinforce those areas that you commented, touristic. From this point of view, it is certain that we have tensions with the health professionals because, you yourself have commented, we are at a time of covet, and the people, the health professionals, also get infected, and therefore we are also on holiday and there is internal tension in the centers, That is true – it is true. But above all, when I say I don't go to the CAP, please, we can't misunderstand that. What I'm saying is that if we have a symptomatology, headache, fever, etcetera, right? It doesn't have a long time, it's not necessary to consult, but we don't give it now, year 22, we give it year 19, the 18, the 17, the 16..., always. And then, in the reply, if you will, I will continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.29.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.30.0	You say health care is guaranteed. Will it guarantee that rural consultants will be open this summer? Tell us we're going back to the level of service of the year 2019. In the year 2019, what did we bring with us years of patenting the retail and a health system absolutely already col·lapsat? Listen, I don't know, but maybe people don't know what resources we're going to spend this summer and maybe lack health education. But what's clear is that we can't retail you any more. At this point, we're trigating a 6.8-day average to give the first response to the city's first message. The accessibility levels are sixty-sis_per_cent, and we have only recovered the presence, for example, in Barcelona, with thirty-u_per_cent. They're not percentages, they're citizens who can't find an answer. Miri, you always talk about resources. I'll tell you..., look at Councilman Giró and tell him directly that he doesn't resolve in advance the C-25 concession, that he doesn't pay Cedinsa 482_million euros, and that this is a priority, these moneys, the dedication to Salut, and in this way also helps us get out of the crisis. My group, counselor, has always given it more extensive. In that case, we'll keep it. Look for an agreement, look for a solution and, above all, put a wire to the needle, it doesn't mean we're without a wire and a needle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.31.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.32.0	Thank you very much, President, Member of Parliament. One of the problems we also have, and this is true, is the lack of professionals, because in some moments, it is also true, that some consultants or some centers, at these moments, when someone is retired or there is a long-term low, cost finding this relapse, is true. And you know that this is also the second structural problem, beyond finance, the second most important structural problem we have. And yesterday, or before yesterday, the minister wrote to him, but not only I, he also wrote to him the councilwoman of the Basque Country, wrote to him the councilman of Galicia and other advisors because, listen to me, the competitions are one hundred_per_cent of them, they are one hundred_per_cent of the central government. What's the high school formation is the central government. The graduate who is in the state and we have claimed it and we have been told "is not and is in the hands of the central government. And the little we can do, that's all the places we believe, offering them, we did. What is PAHO is central government, what is the approval of the titles of people who are non-communities is central, the national speciality commissions is central, and this has to be addressed, and very urgently. And I appreciate the extended hand, and I appreciate the extended hand because this way we'll work a lot better, and the agaph, and I'll take the glove, and we'll get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.33.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on digital policies in català. [[Ask the Government about digital policies in Catalan]] [[310-00331/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Once again, all the support on behalf of the parliamentary group. Good morning, everyone. Vice-President, before yesterday the media let us know that the TSJ will bring the law of the Catalan to the Constitutional Court because the new legislation makes impossible the compliment of the sentence that forces the twenty-five percent of classes to make in castle to the Catalan schools and institutes. The law, which defines the català as the langue vehicular and colliding, and clearly determines that the learning of languages must be done with strictly pedagogical criteria and not with imposed percentages. After months of work, this law was approved in this chamber just now on June 6th, and it was supplemented by a decree of the law for the teachers validated on June 29th. It is no accident that, despite the majority consent of the chamber, the TSJ continues to insist on percentages. But for the percentages that I will now share on the català in the classrooms, at a time when the use of the own language has fallen to bite among young people. 2006: 67.8 use of català among ESO quarter students; 2021: davallada until 21,4_per_cent. 2006: 63.7 of Catalan use among teachers; 2021: search up to 46.8_per_cent. Everyone who believes that català is not a language of prestige or use as they may think they already have what they want, but we will not stop until these data return to their place and vagina in increase. In this context, digital resources are a key tool for generating opportunities, connecting the country and its people and promoting the talent we have as a society, and therefore we need to work without rest to enhance the use of català in this environment, because the digital world is our day-to-day and our children and young people consume digital content at all levels of placards, from entertainment to learning. We already know that a language is kept alive when it's used and its rich in all spaces and situations, also in all digital environments. And it's for this reason that, as well as the percentage interference, as well as the linguistic layout, we persist. And, for that, Vice President, I would like to ask you, beyond the initiations of Culture and Education, what does the Government do to prestige the Catalan and keep it alive as usual? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.35.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Well, first of all, we must congratulate each other. I think the news we've heard about two days ago, which is why, obviously, the judicial victory of català at school seems to me to be good news. This shows that when we go together with the theme of the català, the català advances. And, therefore, in this sense, we must congratulate each other. But it is clear that we will not save the català only through the school and, therefore, we must make it possible for the català to be present, therefore, in all areas. If the català or the only references of the català of our babies are their masters or their parents and they do not find the català in all areas of society, the català will become a language that will not be useful and, therefore, we must do everything possible to work that is obviously present to the music, to the bars, to the supermarket, to any area of our society. In this sense, we must be very aware that today the consumption we make through digital devices all folds, in our day-to-day, so, if we count in hours every day is very high. The average of each consumer catalate in the digital field is five hours a day. And our young, seven hours a day. Therefore, I mean that for seven hours a day our young people have references in the digital field where the català has difficulties today. Difficult to penetrate it. And, therefore, we must pay close attention in this area. TV3 did a great job in the 80s, but now we need new tools. Since the government of Catalonia, and especially since my department, but all departments are compromised, we are working on these nine ways. Precisely, from my department we've put the AINA project on the way, a project that will fill these shortcomings in this digital world. But also the agreement with Microsoft. Also agree that we are arriving with Google. This week I sent a letter to Google specifically concerned about this Catalan theme in some of its applications. As with Amazon and Netflix, I'll also meet with those of you who I'm meeting closely. And, finally, I think this country needs a campaign, a campaign that I think we need to pull out from September, in which we can take a lot of notice that if we don't have our digital devices configured in catalá, for a lot of contents that we have, the algorithms won't introduce them to us and, therefore, our referents won't come out. So, September, we're already entering this campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.37.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on housing measures to combat depopulation. [[Ask the Government about habitat measures to combat depopulation]] [[310-00332/13]] Asks the question of Mr David Saldoni, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.38.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Counselor, depopulation is a problem that also affects us at the conjunction of Catalonia. We have seen how the democratic evolution has led to parts of our country, and if we look at the map we have a strip between the Pyrenees and the lands of the Jews, saving the part of Lleida city, which has difficult problems of depopulation. This concentration of population in urban and coastal areas has, therefore, led to the fact that the north - per cent of the territory may have a difficult habitability problem. In this case, there are more than two hundred municipalities in Catalonia that have this critical situation, at these times, of depopulation. There are municipalities that are very affected, especially the Garrigues, the Conca de Barberà, the Priorat, in which, therefore, we must be able to take a very global approach to the problem. Here we have to work from the government's side and from the institutions' side. I would also like to recognize at this time the leadership of the assemblies at the time of putting the problem on the table; of the entities, in this case, which join the municipalities of our country in order to be able to lay solutions like the state of the rural municipality, etc., where there are a series of themes that we must also be able to face in the conjunction of this Parliament in order to be able, therefore, to attack in a multi-disciplinary way the themes that affect depopulation. We need to plan actions that have short, medium and long-term effects, because this is not an issue that ends tomorrow, but what we need to do is to plan actions that, as I said, can have an impact on those that are left, those that do not pass by the short term, but that are more forward, as we have also done with urban changes, with modifications to the legislation because they can live and work and they can gain life in the territory. We have seen this in other areas, also when we are always talking about optical fiber, which has led people to live in different municipalities after the pandemic, when teletreball has entered our lives more. But habitating is of a cabdal import; being able to rehabilitate habitats in these municipalities is of a cabdal import. The year 2020 started a pilot test that counted on a budget of 2_million euros and for which they were selected dinou municipis. Now we have a new repte, and encanny is going to call for a new summons. And what we'd like to know is if this call... how it's up, if it's going to reach more people, how many resources it's going to have and what uses it might have to expand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.39.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. Yes, as you well know, the Government of the Generality is determined to be able to fight against depopulation or, better said, as they like to say, in order to promote this population in our territories. You said: two hundred municipalities in our country at these times have heavy risk of depopulation; important municipalities, important for their people. But it's very dangerous, exactly, this depopulation. The government is working in all its breadth: from the Department of Education, from the Department of Digital Policies, from the Health Department... But it is clear that one of the difficulties we have in our territory was precisely the lack of habitats, habitats, many times, therefore, that they are habitats, and, therefore, in some conditions every time more evil, and every year that passes is much more because it can rehabilitate these habitats. Last year a pilot test was opened which, as you said, had a quantity of 2 million euros and which were able to acquire this pilot test, therefore, in the municipalities of Catalonia. And so I see the willingness of many municipalities to be able to participate in pilot trials like this, so this year with the Vice President's Department what we did is open a new call, where we expanded this amount of money. We have gone from EUR 2 million to EUR 5 million, which could also be extended with European funds. We have not expanded the uses either; they will not only be to lodge, but they can also be for masoveria, temporary tents or to buy these habitats. And, plus, we've also expanded the number of municipalities that can get involved. In these moments, 515 municipalities of Catalonia, all those municipalities of less than a thousand inhabitants or 3,500 in the mountain ranges will be able to participate in this call, which we believe can be a revulsion for the regions. Plus, the joints are going to have a lot to say, too. These floors, once rehabilitated, if they are public properties, can hold up to the ninety_per_cent of their cost and, if they are deprived, forty_per_cent of their cost. These floors will be managed by the Catalonia Habitat Agency, and the assemblies will be able to determine who are the people or families who believe the most ideals for coming to these municipalities. Sometimes it can be because they need, to keep the school, families with children or because they need to keep some economic fabric, people who are engaging us. So, it's an initiative we're holding together, and we think it can be very positive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.41.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the guidelines of the Generality's 2023 budget. [[Ask the Government about the orientations of the Generality's presupposition for 2023]] [[310-00333/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Canadell, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.42.0	Thank you very much, President, and very much, that we know you have it. Counselor Giró, last year you presented – and this chamber we approved – the first assumptions, your first assumptions. Expanded assumptions, the highest in history, with a disset_per_cent increase on the previous assumption and which have served to, practically, double the investments and allowed increments in key games, such as climate action and rural agenda, with a thirty-four_per_cent more; in teaching, with a split_per_cent more, and in the game of Salvation, with an increment of fifteen_per_cent. Even so, the later assumptions were still clearly insufficient for what the citizens of Catalonia need and deserve, because we will pay in the order of EUR 53,000_million, but we can only dispose of it under the assumption of 35.100, thus maintaining the level of the fiscal deficit of the later decades. In the words of the professor Josep Maria Arauzo, who was yesterday in the Commission of Historical Deute, is about a systemic, structural and permanent deficit, and, therefore – I add – discriminatory. In fact, the Deputy Director General of Finance, Ms Montserrat Bassols, showed us two weeks ago to the same committee the fiscal balances of the year 1986, which amounted to more than 300,000_million euros accumulated in thirty-five years. Certainly, I recommend you, counselor, and to all Members, who follow this commission, because very interesting issues are emerging. Without going further, yesterday also the professor Arauzo explained to us that he does not know anywhere in the world where it is calculated tax balances for cities or barrels, as some union deputies proposed at the end Ple. And there isn't, I mean, because technically you don't feel it. In any case, a lie more of unionism that is countered by arguments of expert professors. Also Mr. Rovira, of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, showed us yesterday the historical series of public investment in Catalonia since the year 1900, where it is demonstrated that the infra-financing – in fact, the espoli – has remained at least during the last one hundred and twenty years. Counselor, you have insisted these days that you cannot enter a scene of world economic uncertainty without approving assumptions, since it is the most important instrument that the Government of a country has to do with politics. We totally agree. That is why, Counselor, we would be pleased if you would explain to us how you intended to guide the assumptions of 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.43.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.44.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mr. Canadell... Miri, we're just starting the way of making assumptions. What I can say is that last week we presented the presuppositionary guidance document and I will say two ideas of respect, briefly. The first: if this year was important to make assumptions, for the year you see, for the year 23, it will still be much more important, because the time we have in the country is full of uncertainties – inflation, the rise of interest types, the increase of fuels and energy prices for citizens and businesses. Therefore, it is very important to do them. And call it, then, to everyone's responsibility because... starting for the government and starting for the councilman, but also for all groups, so that we can elaborate them this year and be able to approve them. Tough times come, and I'm supposed to say so overtly. Tough times come, and from late we'll see. Therefore, I believe that the main law that a government has to develop public policies is the assumptions and, therefore, we will have to put all that we have. The second idea is that, for our part, on the part of the Economics Council, we will do so, we have just set up a council consisting of twelve international experts in economics, finance and history, so that they can help us guide economic policies by the end of the parliamentary term and so that we can do what we want to do, which is to seek common good and general interest. Looking for common good and general interest, among other things, we haven't folded into the pressures of some lobbyists and reverse funders because the cross-section continued to pay and pay until 2040. I'm saying that because I just felt a demagogue that I didn't expect. The money that comes out does not come out of Salvation nor comes out of the premise, it is money that can only come out to pay a credit; some money from a credit to pay a credit. And we pay 482_million to save 810, with a contract signed by the socialist councillor Mr Nadal the year 2010 with the finances of the Generality "brittle, in failed technique. And now what we do is solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full about insecurity growing in barrels and cities. [[Ask the government about insecurity growing in barrels and cities]] [[310-00326/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.46.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Elena, do you think there is an escalation of crime in Catalonia, especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.47.0	To answer, you have the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Counsellor d'Interior... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! , who didn't hear the question. So, Mrs. Roldán, you can repeat the question, because there was a general murmur and the counselor didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.48.0	Yes, President. I was asking the counselor if he believes there is an escalation of crime in Catalonia, especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.49.0	Thank you very much. So, there's the word "Interior Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.50.0	President... And, Congresswoman, I'm sorry, because I didn't really hear it. It is obvious that there is, after the pandemic, an increase in economic activity and social life to our society and, therefore, there is an increase, but it is an increase that does not rise to the levels that there was in 2019, because there is a positive police activity resulting from an increase in the assumptions and media that this government is destined for public security in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.51.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.52.0	Yes, thank you. Look, a few days ago, Via Laietana in broad daylight, assaulting a traveler to steal his watch. He killed, this weekend, five o'clock in the morning, some hooded with stolen cars sunk an establishment and looted it. Santa Coloma, a few weeks ago, also a assault with a white gun. Thieves assault a person to steal his mobile phone and fifty_euros. Monday night, Badalona, shoplifting. Cardinal Reig Street, Corts district, June. A neighbor has to be cared for when he is injured by a pull from a clock. And last Friday, too, a pull on the Taulat walk. And I could be that way for a while, Mr. Elena. Look, the crime in Barcelona has grown forty_and three_per_cent, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior. According to his department, there are only 1,000 robberies every week at the Rambla. Not to mention the occupations. Catalonia concentrates forty_per_cent of the occupations in all of Spain. Just a few days ago you were interviewing La Vanguardia where you said that what Barcelona is suffering is more a problem of incisiveness than insecurity. But look, the Barcelonans don't think that way, they don't think that way, and neither do the Mossos and the Urbana, who warn that we are facing one of the worst summers in terms of insecurity. And in case you're tempted to accuse me of not supporting the agents, which is one of your usual hits, all my appreciation for your work. They are working to end this wave of crimes and do not have sufficient resources or the support of the department, which leaves them at the feet of horses and defenseless. If you were to protect them and cherish them, another rooster would sing to us. But between Colau and the Government of the Generalitat, that's how it goes. Look, your naif policy, where criminals are beautiful people and who we denounce is the devil aggravates the situation, Mr. Elena. You can't be a counselor with that candidity. I say to him: it is not incisiveness, it is insecurity, and it is his responsibility to tackle it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.53.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.54.0	Man! Ah! Congresswoman... president... candidesa, all, in personal life, huh? Miri, I defend, like the person of the left, that the order..., the defense and the defense the order, and that the order is precisely of the left, and that you, precisely, represent the disorder and chaos. They come here to make a demagogic list of respect for security, as they have always done. You confound what is order and what is security. You understand that the order is to pursue political dissent. For you the order is, precisely, the opposite of what it is, that it is to accompany citizens and citizens and to guarantee their rights and freedoms. You, when you've ruled, have absolutely abandoned your safety nets. When you ruled the country you say so much esteemed, you reduced your security and left absolutely abandoned the country's barrels and cities that you say so much esteemed. Security isn't giving yourself a few pits and making you look angry. Security is mediating. Security is to increase the twenty per cent of the inside advice's premise and to donate physical and technical means to security objects so that they investigate and resolve conflicts and crimes. And security is putting in human mediums and equipping the Squad Mosos Cos, every year, with eight hundred more agents. That's what's safe. Not the imposture, not the demagogic, not the empty and easy speech that later turned out to leave the barrels and cities completely abandoned. There we are; there we are and there we are, with the gatherings of his side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.55.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on emergency health contracts during the first six months of the covid pandemic. [[Ask the Government about emergency health contracts during the first six months of the covid pandemic]] [[310-00330/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.56.0	Counselor Dr. Argimon: Would you say that the Català de la Salut Institute manages resources wisely, correctly and transparently?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.57.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.58.0	Yeah. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.59.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.60.0	Counselor Dr. Argimon, look, you know that I know that you know that this matter of the 35_million_euro paid to Mr. Roger Parellada, the Pablo Escobar masks is very ugly. Come on, you have to be a monster to move from being denounced for fraud by the Generalitat to being paid 24_million in commissions by the Generalitat itself. Of this, people do not end up on the train because all administrations have already taken good care to pardon themselves of all the excesses committed in the pandemic and to cover up each other. That is why Mr Illa never asks here about these matters and we have to ask him Mr Carrizosa and I. I already asked you on 3 March in the Salut Commission and you just made a good face and kept a lot of information that, given the scandalous policy of non-accountability of this government, we have only been able to know very incompletely by the investigations of journalist Marcos Lamelas, in El Confidencial and, what are things, by the memories of Quim Torra, who would laugh if they did not move to cry and to cover their nose before what I have already denounced here many times. It smells like rot in here. Here it smells like three percent with a white robe. And it's that in the Generalitat and in the ICS it rains a lot over wet. To the bad practice« special covid, which is tried to justify with fear and in haste to save lives, it is necessary to add decades of compadreo, traffic and even clogging of influences. It would be enough for only one of you – you? – you skip the omerta to clean up, but that will never do until we evict you from power with hot water. And, by the way, Mrs. Laura Borràs, resign, resign at once. I don't know. Pray, don't embarrass us any more. Because the ball is probably already so big that none of you want or can stop it. And the most that some aspire to is to profile themselves and look the other way. So much for the other side that the ICS has continued to hire as if such a thing with companies of this lord, Roger Parellada, as you already well knew on March 3 and did not say. And we're moving on to bingo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.61.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.62.0	Member of Parliament, Member of Parliament, I recall that this is an audited contract for the Union of Accounts. The Anti-Fraud Office nailed the dispatch. Three, 2_million surgical masks arrived, 2_million FFP2, 1,100,000 grade 3 protection grains. To the journalistic information that you refer to, take it, say that only EUR 3.8 million was allocated to this purchase. We don't get along with these 3.8s, but we're taking this xifra. If you take over and divide this amount for the 5_million protection items that arrived– 5_million–, we paid 0.76 cents per item. That is to say, they bought monkeys for 0.76, which is not credible. But I'll give him another little calculus. If you pay the FFP2 to what you paid in Madrid and it was public, which is that you recognized your own community, escorted, to five euros, you carried 800,000 masks and pro, zero « monkeys, zero surgical masks. And if they were paid to the price that the Court of Auditors says, which makes the middle 2,7-2,8 of FFP2 brings 1_million_i_mig of masks and turns out that it carried all the material, it only distributed with 3,8_millions and then comes out this inverse five hundred_per_cent of margin. That's not credible. It's not credible. I take the words... In this sense, I take the words of the President of the other day: you want to make a Madrid and there is no Madrid and there is no Madrid. They don't have it, it's not there; no, I'm sorry, it's not there. And then talk to me about President Torra. Listen, you don't have to be so indisputable if it's in some memoirs. Second, listen, of course, he calls the vice president; at the most difficult time we have in this country and in Europe in decades, it seems to me normal that I trick the president and councillor of the Economy, that I trick myself, but it is that, moreover, he calls much more people, to directors of hospitals. Listen, and it's normal. It would seem a little normal to me if you hadn't called. That's what would seem a little normal to me. And I'm telling you one thing, you're a very experienced journalist and a very experienced journalist. I know positively that you, this fictional report, do not subscribe to it, because it is only with a division – with a division – that it is disjointed. It's bare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.63.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the measures envisaged to address the social and economic impact caused by inflation and the breakdown of global production and trade chains. [[Asks the Government about the measures planned to address the social and economic impact caused by inflation and the breakdown of global production and trade chains]] [[310-00325/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Joan Carles Gallego, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.64.0	Counselor Torrent, I have been told that you will answer me, but I do not think I will ask you either because of the lack of impulse to the social dialogue or because of the failure of the national pact for industry or because of the reason for the concentration of Commissions and UGT today at the doors of the employer or because of the failure to implement the Next Generation funds, which do not reach the doze_per_cent of the assigned to Catalonia, because what we want to know is what we really care about is the impact of inflation, the effects of the Ukrainian war on the country's citizenship and economic activity. And we are deeply concerned that today the Government can again go into paralysis because of the irresponsible attitude of Mrs. Laura Borràs before a corruption court that has opened, before acting decisively in the face of the problems of our country's citizenship. Because we want to know what the answer is to give to the month of 1,900,000 people, Catalans and Catalans, who cover less than eleven thousand euros a year and who are under the banner of poverty and social exclusion. Or more than 6 million Catalans and Catalans who enter less than 24,000 euros a year, or for entrepreneurs, co-operatives and autonomists who are concerned about the uncertain future or, obviously, the effects of climate change. What does the government intend to do, beyond the escalator and useless million and a half euros that it devoted... with that decree two weeks ago, which is less than Ferrovial earned in a month in Catalonia? What does the government intend to do before this negative impact on the citizenry?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.65.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.66.0	Thank you, President. I don't have the authority you have, Congressman, not to say what you say afterwards to start the question, making a whole revolution, to end up talking about inflation. I'll talk about fets. Look, we presented the job data this week, and we're breaking history of social security affiliation. For the first time, we beat the records of the historical series for which he does these affiliations and also, from a point of view of downing the atum, in absolute figures, Catalonia leads these six first months of the year the downing of the atum. And this has been thanks, basically, to the resilience of our country's economy, but also to the help we have provided from the Government of the Government of Catalonia. I remember, 3,200_million euros in aid, which is the largest xifra that has been made by the conjunct of the territories of the Spanish State. Among other things, EUR 169_million for complementary aid to workers in ERTO – in fact, the last line we paid for June– and EUR 660_million for help to self-employed people, which is more than the 570 announced by the Spanish Government last week.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.67.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.68.0	Thank you, Counselor. You know that I didn't ask him that, because I already know that, thanks to labor reform and ERTO, the crisis today doesn't impact the job market. But unfortunately, today we are ahead of a crisis of prices that has a very significant impact on citizenship and economic activity. It is not time to seek out guilty, it is time for the Government to assume its responsibilities and its governmental powers. It is not a time of confrontation, but of cooperation and collaboration between institutions to give answers to the difficult economic and social crisis that we are experiencing. The Government is already complementary to the measures approved by the central government, reducing public transport to 50 per cent and complementing aid to the loguer. It has to create an energy xec of two hundred euros that reaches the most needy families, especially those that cover or enter less than thirty thousand euros. It has to improve the management of the guaranteed income of citizens, the seventy_per_cent of people under the shield of the poor is excluded from the guaranteed income of citizens and it has to increase its import by fifteen_per_cent, as has been done with the vital minimum income. It must boost the subsidies that boost rehabilitation and renewable energies. It has to activate the economy and it has to... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.69.0	Time's up. To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.70.0	Thank you again, President. I was wondering about the help we've done, and when I answer and detail it, you help them, you tell me you didn't ask me that. Miri, we have not only helped the sectors most affected by the successive crises that we have experienced, from the covid to the derivatives of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but we continue to accompany the enterprises of the country. For example, now, with the crisis opened with the Algerian Government, precisely for the change of attitude respecting the right to self-determination of the Sahara of the Spanish Government, we have accompanied the companies, the five hundred exporting companies to Algeria and the thirty-five branch offices operating there. But we'd love to be able to do more. We'd like to have more instruments so we can do more. Who has them, who has these tools, is the Government of the Spanish State. And it could impact structurally on two elements of clarity: from one band, the energy market, which is what takes the prices up. A structural intervention in a market of energy absolutely untangled. And what I could do is promote a social agreement that includes a return agreement, as the same President Aragon claimed last week. This can be done by the Spanish Government. What seems to me to be sure that it does not help inflation is to spend an additional 1,000_million euros on military spending.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.71.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on reindustrialisation policies. [[Ask the Government about reindustrialization policies]] [[310-00337/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, Member of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, this is a legislature marked by the word "reindustrialisation". Everyone talks about it, but no one has just seen it. With a disparate CPI, an inflation caused by the increase in business benefits, under pre-charitable conditions and an increase in the prices of services and basic products, beyond the great announcements of punctual international investments, what is the proposal of their department for this necessary industrial transformation for the country? In which sectors? With what model?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.73.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.74.0	Thank you, President. If you've looked more, Congresswoman, you'll see that it is, that it is, eh? And it is known not only with very powerful investment announcements– certainly, the most powerful of the last twenty years as, for example, Iljin in Mont-roig del Camp – but with the resolution of the months of reindustrialisation. We are talking about four new projects that continue the activity of reindustrialisation. We're talking about the 2021 foreign investment takeover agreement, EUR 612_million, and two_of_each_three of these euros destined for industrialization projects. We are also talking, for example, about the increase in the forty-five percent of the lines of aid to reindustrialisation, which have allowed us to help forty-four projects and maintain or create 1,800 work places. And I could go on, huh? because the list is broad and shows that, indeed, that priority that we have set ourselves to the principles of the legislature to reindustrialize the country taking advantage of a favourable context in this sense, we are complementing it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.75.0	To answer the question, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.76.0	Counselor, from the National Pact for Industry we are still waiting for news. And, in fact, they still put on the table the same great reversal of the Mont-Roig company of the Camp. Is that cyclical? Is that the big announcement they've got? But I'll give you an example. An example that has already come out several times: Saint Gobain; company that carries years announcing EROs and periodically accommodations. The workers at each announcement respond with a vacancy. At every turn, this Parliament stands at the side of the workers and fills its mouth with support for the workers. Actually, you said it last week. He said: "Obviously we work there, before the new announcement of friendships at the Arboç plant. But the workers are tired. Between the Glass wave two years ago and the current conflict, what have they done for the reindustrialization table of the Baix Penedès? And yes, I know what the action meeting will tell me one month ago. Beyond that, what have they done between these two years?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.77.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.78.0	Member of Parliament, respect for the Penedès, exactly, the past plenary could explain what measures are aimed at this reindustrialisation of one of the areas which, of course, has more attention from the Department of Enterprise and Work of the government's joint venture. Look, just yesterday, in government, we approved the decree that develops the law to facilitate economic activity, that what is to be allowed, precisely, is to decree certain projects as strategic projects, because they are projects that help this reindustrialisation. It is a decree that favors administrative agility, so that we can properly position ourselves in tractor projects that must help this reindustrialisation. We've set the twenty-i-five percent of fish in the gross domestic product by 2030. And, indeed, the national pact for industry has to draw up what is the concrete recourse that must enable us to get there. But while we're at work, I insist. He was talking to her about Iljin and you said it was a song. Listen to me, tell them on the way to Mont-Roig de Camp if it's a song, or tell them to the Lands of the Ebre if Kronospan is a song, or tell them to Bosch, Castellet, if it's a song the fact that there is a company that continues the industrial activity; certainly, to Baix Penedès. Therefore, we are working intensely in this sense, and it is not only a matter of making you proclaim here in the Parliament of Catalonia, but of fact, and facts are indisputable in this sense. We will continue to work, because, effectively, we believe that the reindustrialisation of the country is the main engine for creating decent jobs, quality and territorial balance, which is precisely what we are looking for. In fact, Congresswoman, the National Pact for Industry will draw concrete actions in some of the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.79.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Asks the Government about the acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies]] [[310-00334/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies. The question is posed by Mr Eugeni Villalbí, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.80.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, I would not wish to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate you on your presence last week at the United Nations Conference on the Oceans, and to make the view of Catalonia present. It is gratifying the involvement of the Catalan Government in summits that seek solutions for climate change and the absolvement of sustainable development goals, while we see that other governments participate in summits that they do is to strengthen the bellicose path and increase military spending. And, as I said before, we are working to meet the 2030 agenda goals, and the 2030 and 2050 decarbonization horizons, and to do so, we need to address the energy transition. We come from years of inaction that have caused a halt in renewable energies, a key element in the energy transition for the decarbonization of our country. The war in Ukraine and the acceleration of the energy crisis also make it more urgent every day to reduce any energy dependence. The government, finally, had a reformed and adequate decree to speed up this process, and does so, moreover, causing a change of model: participation, democracy, distribution and relocation. This transition is one of the most important challenges that we have as a country, and we know that, as urgent as it is, it will not be easy, because we want to do it right. Urgency doesn't have to be the excuse to do it in any way. We want energy to serve the green economy and the hands of the citizenry, seeking the better integration and territorial balance of energy parks. We have done so not only to guarantee energy sovereignty, but also to guarantee food sovereignty, protecting the country's agricultural potential. As a result of his consulting work, the data we've shared in this hemiculus show that we've come out of the paralysis of the past few years and that we're working at a good pace. That is why, she advises, in her answer we ask that we update these data and indicate to us if you believe that the department..., we are fulfilling the targets in renewable energies that the department had set itself. Because it's true that for the climate emergency, for years of inaction, for the energy crisis, for the war, we're in a better hurry than ever. But we also believe, we are convinced, that the rush cannot be the excuse to maintain the oligopolie model and deliver them the territorial keys approving decrees that violate the right to information, participation and citizen consultation, and effectively eliminate environmental impact studies. That's not our model. The urgency cannot make us forget that this must be an opportunity for citizenship, and that we are here to absolve energy sovereignty, but also to defend the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.81.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.82.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Member, you said, we come from two years of renewables; we also come from a cylinder, let me say so, speculative; we come from a territory that is also on fire, and, before that, we are in the middle of a climate emergency, and it is obvious that we cannot put up with a second sun. And yes, in fact, the first step was precisely the modification of this decree, which did not just intend to make a model change, move from fossil to renewable energies, but just transform and base us on a new model, which you described very well, to fulfill these objectives on the 30th, and also on the 50th, huh? In this sense, also the Parliament, so, a few days ago, changed into three very concrete aspects..., precisely through a decree, precisely for muscle still more this model, which, as I said, you have defined, this democratic model, participated and with territorial cohesion. And also taking advantage of the question, so I let you give them a little bit a day, huh? We're closing this June with a few figures that, in my opinion – and I think that's it, because the numbers are strict – they're right about this model, huh? This past month, we added one hundred and fifty megawatts more renewable projects to public information. This means that at these times we are with 1,450 megawatts of renewable public information. This month of June, that's why, we've also authorized three projects that add up to 15 megawatts, that can already be built these, huh? These are already a reality. And, besides, July 1st, that's a few days ago, so we've already published the final authorization of what will be the largest photovoltaic park in Catalonia, until today, which will be a 14.5 megawatt park, in this case. These are the numbers and this is where we are today. Sense of doubt, I think..., and when I say this, that I am not mistaken, that this is the way, that we have made it clear, that we have to be very curious, that we have to explain and make it clear that energy sovereignty is compatible yes or yes with food sovereignty, that this country wants to walk towards green transformation. And we move forward, therefore, with this step, in our view, a firm step towards this transformation, towards this energetic model which abandons fossil resources and which, in a sense of doubt, therefore favors the path to climate neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.83.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the objectives of Any Fuster. [[Ask the Government about Any Joan Fuster's goals]] [[310-00335/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Irene Aragonès, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.84.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Joan Fuster, lawyer, historian, philosopher, dietist, literary critic, cultural activist, poet, assailant; one of the most considerable, if not the most, of the sorgical generations after the Civil War. His intellectual personality, which ended up defining an extensive humanist and politically critical work, had an extraordinary stake in the cultural and civil life of the Catalan Countries. It was able to generate a dirt from a completely asleep society in the Franco dictatorship, with key works like Valencia, a question of names and We, the Valencians, with key ideas about the country, their own identity and their own language, which today still have transcendence in the territory. An author who already tweeted about forty years before you existed Twitter, with his famous Aphorisms; « he must not forget that all the politics that we do not do will be done against us or « be persecuted is already a victory, which, today, unfortunately, they still have so much sense. We have the immense historical fate that Any Fuster is officially commemorated in Valencia, where he was born and lived, in the Balearic Islands, where he also had important repercussions, and in Catalonia, where most of his work was published and where his projection was essential. This commemoration will help us, therefore, to establish a relationship with the Valencian and the Balearic Islands, and this is precisely a mission of the Catalan Letters Institution. They owe us Joan Fuster, everything he gave us. And, therefore, we cannot do less than not follow, deepen and spread the knowledge of his work to the fullest, highlight its enormous importance and highlight its validity in our days as a driving force of a critical, demanding and free thought. So let's take advantage of it, then, and continue to foster Catalan culture; let's recover the experience of managing the Palma declaration. May the commemoration of the Any Fuster help, serve and help the new generations to value their figure for such a spread, from a global optic, the work of the Swedish writer. And we're still defending the truth he was asking for. It's all that, Counselor, we're asking for the objects of Any Fuster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.85.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman Aragonès. The object of the Any Fuster, like all the government's commemorations, is to deepen and spread to the maximum this great intellectual figure of Sweden. Because even today the words of Fuster awaken our critical thinking and make us more demanding and freer. This year, as you said right now, is the first time that the three governments coincide in the celebration of the same commemoration. That's why we've had a lot of interest from the principle to do an act together, to make it visible. And last June 4th was a very special day, where the three Councillors of Culture, of the three territories, celebrated in Sweden the institutional act of the centenary. Moreover, there were also the commissioners, who were explaining to us, so who are serious about the activities of each of the territories, what activities we have and what we share. Because, in general, the objects are that this great figure of our letters reaches the maximum number of people. In fact, we have shared activities, between the Valencian Academy and the Institution of Catalan Letters; a traveling exhibition; the names « Conversations by Joan Fuster, that we will have thirteen acts distributed throughout the territory, and the year 2023 also last at Palau Robert the great exhibition about Fuster that created the Valencian Generalitat. Now, what we believe is that the best honor we can do to Fuster is to work to foster all the links that unite us to the three territories. At the meeting of Sweden, the three governments agreed that we would start to make the working groups that are expected, that were already predicted in 2017, to the statement of Palma. There are many working groups that are planned: visual arts, heritage, literature... And we've put ourselves to work. In fact, three meetings have been held – in Barcelona, Valencia and Palma – to coordinate initiatives in linguistic policy; this dilluns has entered into operation a joint web on the official certificates of Catalan, and tomorrow we present the project Shared Letters, of the Institution of Catalan Letters, with the Valencian Academy of Language, Majorca Literària and the Island Council of Menorca, in order to create a circuit of writers, and the next season we will have joint productions between the National Theatre of Catalonia, the Principal of Palma and the Principal of València. Surely, we are convinced, that from this joint look of the three Fuster governments would not be very proud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.87.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the help to the page to deal with the effects of frost. [[Ask the Government about help to the page to deal with the effects of frost]] [[310-00336/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Meritxell Serret, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.88.0	Thank you, President. Allow me, counsel, to begin by speaking, in the name of Esquerra Republicana, all our support for the friend and deputy Lluís Puig, because we are before an unjust sentence and believe that the rights of the politicians cannot be subject to judicialization and that, with the anti-repressive struggle, with its unity, we must always stop these attempts at judicialization and more repression. [[Greetings.]] It will advise, said this, to the April of Encany there have been intense frosts that, in a sustained manner, have carried the temperatures to below zero, affecting many municipalities of our country and especially the comarques of Ponent, damaging the crops of cereals, dried fruit, with the amethlers, and also, above all, the sweet fruit, come to affects of almost the north or the hundred_percent of the production. The agri-food sector is seeing as the crisis of prices and health crises are adding to the climate crisis, and, in the fruit and sweet sector, more and more, in a consecutive way, during the last two years; it is experiencing crises, such as, in 2011, Escherichia coli; in 2014, with crisis of prices and markets in the rough and still growing; in 2020 there were already pedestrians and meteorological influences, and that with d'encany we are already carrying three years of ice creams that affect production and productive capacity for the future. The great challenge that we have, she advises, and you lead it and always represent it in the front of the department, is to give confidence to the sector, to promote this generational network of farms that are really out of reach in the territory, contributing to the socio-economic motor of those communities and to the food sovereignty of the country. And that's why – you always say – we need holistic vision in policies, which affects the industry's ability to push forward, with help – if it fits ad hoc –, compensations, administrative improvements, all the support for innovation and research, with new varieties or product models, and also the review of the insurance system that the sector has already asked for. We are well aware that we have specific policies, that we need to give an adapted response to the needs in order to achieve the maximum capacity for development in the sector. He will advise, in his department, on June 22, they made a meeting led by the own president, an unaudited fact and that demonstrates the relevancy of the sector for the republican government. We want to ask you which actions are driving the department to deal with all these effects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.89.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, too, Congresswoman. As a good thing, on June 22, last month, we were showing that the Government is on the side, as it cannot otherwise be, of an essential sector such as the page; we were celebrating the agricultural table; we were doing it in the capital of Segria, with the presence of the President, and also accompanied us by Councillor Torrent, because, from the department and above all from the Directorate General of Cooperatives, they were also there and they were in a very important way. And we are those who say – before Councillor Torrent also said –: "We do not proclaim so much and act, do we not? And that's what it's about, acting, having to act. What is most important and urgent is that we do not lose in this country nor a soil of cultivated land. That's very important. And the sector is very difficult, because times are also very difficult. More than that, it didn't just rain on a mule; ice on a glacier. We also come and we are in a very significant and very difficult context for the sector, such as the war in Ukraine, and it is clear that the government cannot do it any other way than be there. Beyond the already planned actions and policies, many of them that are beginning to see the light at these times – very important – and we could talk, therefore, about the law of agricultural areas, we could talk about the development of different actions of the strategic plan of food of Catalonia and many others, but in this case concretely, 40_million euros of aid to the sector, 32_million direct for agricultural operations of sweet and sweet fruit – said you, and empty, in this case, for cooperatives and fruit plants. With these help we intend to compensate, of course, these losers, in this case, not covered by insurance. And for the other, it also compensates cooperatives and central companies that, obviously, will not be able to market this fruit because, obviously, this fruit is not there. But also, above all, thinking a lot about these regions and what the fruit sector represents at the economic level. It is an essential sector, and the derivatives of these glaciers – repeated, but above all the latter with such important effects – obviously have consequences. And that's why we decidedly bet to do these aids, these concrete and direct aids to these effects. I want to remind you that it is the worst frosts of the last thirty years, that come at a very punctual time, that it is the moment of flowering, and – I repeat because it seems very important to me – that affects some markets where fruit is one of the main economic sectors precisely of this right. Let us therefore respond to the needs of a vital sector, let me say this, a sector that guarantees life, that guarantees life to all of us every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.91.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on measures to eradicate the sale to the blanket. [[Asks the Government about measures to eradicate manta sales]] [[310-00324/13]] The question is posed by Mr Antonio Gallego, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.92.0	Yes, good morning. Counselor, what steps does the Government take to eradicate the top blanket?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.93.0	To answer, has the word Tània Verge consellera, consellera d'Igualtat e Feminismos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.94.0	Okay. We are very afraid that the only object of your question is, as always, to criminalize people for their origin or for their skin color, and they will not find us there. We don't admit hate speeches, racists and xenophobics, because ours is a model of country to walk together, and so on, where their hate speeches, xenophobics and racists, there's no fit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.95.0	In answer, has the word Mr. Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.96.0	Although in many cities in Catalonia the top blanket is present all year round, it is in summer when the mafia keep you massively on the streets to sell illegal goods and forgery outside the law. We cannot continue to endure the further degradation, with its presence, of the main tourist centres and the image of Catalonia. This illegal practice, which generates saturation of public spaces, excessive noises, many nuisances, cannot and must not be tolerated and constitutes an important disloyal aggravation for all activities that require a municipal license. This illegal sale helps to increase the submerged economy and precarious the work, Counselor. The top manta, moreover, promotes crimes against intellectual property by selling counterfeits, and seriously endangers the health of consumers with products that have not passed the relevant health controls, as pointed out by the main employers in the region. Patronals, for example, like Pimec, who in the last summer before the pandemic ciphered in 130_million_de_euros the negative impact of the top blanket. And those 130_millions only took place in the city of Barcelona, and it was only counted the presence of nine hundred keep you, when they reached the peaks of almost two_ thousand. Many municipalities, such as Barcelona, do not exercise their powers in this regard, allowing the mafias to act with impunity, generating a so-called effect. Other municipalities try to fight the phenomenon, but they are absolutely overwhelmed and cannot stop it. The result? Trade feels unprotected, helpless and despised in the face of the illegal blanket top. That is why, Madam Counsellor, we ask you to help the legal trade, the one who pays his taxes, the one who pays his rents and the one who offers safety and quality in his products. You have the competence in the area of citizen security, you can fight organized mafias, you are part of the Catalan Security Board and you have the capacity to help the municipalities restore order on the public street. In short, we ask you to pull over and stop bleaching the top blanket. And as you have seen after this intervention, we have not only talked about that peregrullada that you have said, but also about many more things, such as the economic effects on the industry in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.97.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.98.0	The "not only this one is important, eh? But in any case, there are two very hypocritical elements that I would like to highlight. They're talking about precariousness. Do they know what people are precarious about? A foreign law that does not allow access to people migrated to the right to work legally [[applause]] And that takes them... – the foreign law in force in the Spanish State – and that takes them into precariousness, social exclusion and exploitation. Do they know what the other hypocritical element is? If they now pose..., look for Google – and I invite everyone you do, if they want to –, put the words to Google « top manta i« VOX the first entry that comes out of this, an article of June 18 of this year published in the digital El Español, what do you say – headline, eh? –: « The top blanket of VOX does business with its items on the street without the mobile sales license. I the subtitle says: "For years now, it has been feeding on this funding channel with the installation of information tables where it exposes merchandising for direct sale. Like they find it, I don't read it. [[applause]] I understand that the rest of the information can be transferred to the Court of Auditors and will already give them the relevant explanations when they are audited in the annual accounts. But in any case, let me tell you one thing: don't be so spiteful, that marxandatge is a gift. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat how he will act when the oral trial is opened against the President of the Parliament]] [[317-00185/13]] The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.100.0	Thank you, President. What steps will you take as leader of Esquerra and president of the Generalitat when Ms. Laura Borràs is opened oral trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.102.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Sir, you know that, as President of the Generality, I say to this Parliament, that it is who chose me, and therefore, fully respect the division of powers. And I am convinced that the moment you, therefore, describe, the concrete moment in which you can make decisions, everyone will make the decision that will best suit the public service vocation that we have the members of this chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.103.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.104.0	Thank you, President. In the previous control session – I no longer had the right to reply – you asked me for an apology for certain actions allegedly committed by people who are either out of politics, even given my party's discharge, or are active in other autonomous communities. It is as absurd as if I had to ask you to apologize for the convictions – not accusations, convictions – of a good bunch of Republican Left Councillors for non-political but especially repulsive crimes. I am obviously not going to do it today, nor am I going to do it in the future. As I also do not demand an apology from you for Mrs. Laura Borràs' accusations, among other things because she is not even part of your party. But I am willing to demand responsibility, because with your vote you made her president of the Parliament of Catalonia. Go ahead that we do not question the presumption of innocence of Mrs Laura Borràs, even if you never respect ours, because without presumption of innocence there is no rule of law. But we are talking about other very different things, namely two: the first is the prestige and dignity of this institution, the presidency of Parliament; and the second is respect for and compliance with the regulations of the Catalan Parliament itself. I assume that the first question, that of prestige, is subjective. In fact, that is precisely why I am addressing Mrs Borràs, to tell her that I sincerely believe that you could better defend her presumption of innocence by resigning as President of the Parliament of Catalonia. But the second question is not subjective, it is totally objective. I refer you, Mr Aragonès, and that is why I am addressing you, because the Rules of Procedure of the Catalonian Parliament are absolutely conclusive: at the time when an oral trial for corruption offences is opened, the Member is immediately disqualified. That ball, Mr. Aragonès, is on your roof. You in the investiture promised transparency and exemplaryness. With this matter of Mrs Laura Borràs you have the opportunity to demonstrate what, and with the silence you have raised earlier, it is clear that you do not intend to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.106.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, this is a control session and you have the opportunity to address me as President of the Generality of Catalonia and, therefore, to be able to tax government action, and you have decided, therefore, to use your time for questions that you have nothing to do with government action. And in any case, respect this assumption, my ability to intervene is the same as any of the 135 Members of this House, because my vote is one vote on this issue as a Member, as is the rest. And I say to him: I am convinced that in order to guarantee the good service of the institution, for the defence of the institutions and for the prestige of the institutions, at the time when a decision is to be made, each one of us here, individually and collectively, will make the best decision that I can preserve the public service that we lend to the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the participation of Members of Parliament in the boycott of the conference of the magistrate Marchena to the Collège de l'Advocacia de Barcelona]] [[317-00189/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.108.0	Before yesterday, the barcelona lawyers and other jurists who came to the Bar Association of Barcelona to listen to the magistrate of the Supreme Court, Manuel Marchena, talking about artificial intelligence, had to endure the imperfections and the boycott attempt of a few independenceists, including a member of the Bureau of Parliament and two other deputies. What do you think these facts deserve, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.110.0	Thank you very much, President. So look, Congressman: we must respect the right to freedom of expression and freedom of expression of people. And in the same way that this Government cannot prohibit a conference of the Marche Court, it cannot prohibit a demonstration of the people who are legitimately against the actions of the President of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, in a political trial in which it sentenced members of this chamber and members of the Government of the Government of Catalonia to a prison sentence, simply to give the opportunity to the citizen of Catalonia to decide their future. Therefore, always defending the freedom of expression, the U of October and diluns passed to Barcelona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.111.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.112.0	Mr President, Barcelona lawyers had invited Marchena for her experience and knowledge of artificial intelligence with all the right to do so. [[Widow's remorse.]] The presence of three deputies of the governing parties in the boycott has shown that the commitment of the nationalist parties is to have a Catalonia eternally angry and unable to move on. Can't professional corporations and their members do what they want in Catalonia without waiting for the interventionism and harassment of the most extremists, hurled by public office of parties in the government? Is that how freedoms are in Catalonia? Again, the police device was arranged in such a way that the exalted independenceists could approach the assistants in order to shout, insult and disturb the act, as in the Meridiana, where the police device is designed to control the neighbors of the neighborhood and protect the independenceists who attack them. The image of Mrs Vergés and Mr Rius surrounded by ultras vociferous is the vivid image of that black Catalonia, victimist and anchored in the past that you represent. The attempt to silence a jurist of prestige against the will of Barcelona's lawyers, who legitimately wanted to listen to Marchena, recalls the dark times of "death intelligence. Stop trying to stabilize the Catalans on the margins of a Cerril and Gallinaceous flight nationalism. Today the Bureau of Parliament, together with Mrs Vergés, announces that it will again invade and disobey the Constitutional Court, illegally accounting for the vote of the fugitive Mr Puig. They will be tried and presumably disqualified, and then they will again harass judges who dare to convict them under the law. But I'm telling you, you're not gonna be able to twist your arm to the rule of law. Catalonia will pass the page of you, of your lies, of your chrispation and of your victimism. We will again be the vanguard of Spain, the spearhead of our country and admired by the rest of the Spaniards. Ciutadans works for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.114.0	Thank you very much, President. I believe that those who are passing the page are their voters with you, with all respect. [[Give me the applause.]] Because you need to keep feeding this speech that you just made here, because you live from constant attention. Listen, the Marchena jutge conference was done, it was possible to do it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It was done and there was- there... I suppose I can talk, Mr. Congressman. Can I talk or not? Okay. So I think we have to respect each other. I have respected his word; you respect my – you respect my – please. Therefore, the conference was able to take place. You have a lot of..., you have described, therefore, the presence of deputies who are not from your parliamentary group, deputies of the independence majority, in an act, in a legitimate protest demonstration, because you can express disagreement with the Marche jutge. Of course it can be done. And this forms part of the right to freedom of expression. In fact, you have a lot of experience in expressing disagreement. You went to college to set up students who were doing, exercising your right to freedom of expression. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And you've gone to ally them – to ally them –, to ally them from a congressman to college students. You have participated in counter-demonstrations on a permanent basis. He was, he went every week to the Meridiana trying to provoke. And they know it perfectly. Therefore, you have a lot of experience, you can give us many lessons, precisely, of what it is to participate in protest activities. We have guaranteed your right to protest and your right to freedom of expression and we will guarantee it for all citizens, even those with whom we do not share your speech, because precisely the defense of freedom of expression is this: always guarantee it, especially when you don't like what you say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.115.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about measures to deal with the collapsing of primary care centres and the health system for lack of resources and investments the political situation]] [[317-00187/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.116.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, with thousands of Catalans and Catalans, 15 days ago I became a covid. I notified my CAP and it took five days to give me an answer. We can imagine that five days later, therefore, to communicate my position, the recommendations that have been made to me have served me between few and nothing. But if we want to ask the CAP now – at least my CAP – the closest date you have is for fifteen days. You can imagine that fifteen days is a barbarity. It would be normal for us to be atticed in forty-four hours, seventy-two hours. And that's because they're absolutely overwhelmed. And what's the other side of this situation? So meths from primary school, meths from primary school, who even have to meet new people in a minute. That means that while you and I are asking this question, as if they were Marvel's superheroes, there are forty-five patients. All this, President, has a name and is said to be sanitary. We're on the seven o'clock. The most worrying thing is that we haven't gotten to the top yet. The professionals, of course, have to take a wonderful holiday and, in addition, some are also on a low. And so, president, we want to know: in this scener, it seems normal that the only thing that this government is doing right now is recommending that people not go to the CAP, go down or down, but don't go to the CAP, while they're not expanding resources and we're on the same health coverage as in the summer of 2019, when were there retails and when were there no blankets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.118.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, I'm celebrating your recovery from covid. I see you're in full shape. So I'm glad. And I hope, then, that it was as light as possible. I think we also need to adjust to the exact words. The Government of Catalonia does not tell its citizens that they do not vacate the CAP, but simply with the fact of being infected, that many times it is possible to detect with the same test that it is possible to make their own city at home, if it is not found ill, does not, for a simple question of notification, go to the emergency services of the CAP, precisely to leave space to those pathologies, to those situations of health that do need health care. It is logical that, when someone is infected with a cove, everyone has this distressing situation of knowing exactly what it is that they can do, what they can't do, so that they don't put you in danger any more of yourself and what you're being shot at. In this sense, there is all the information available. I think we're two years old, clearly explaining the precautionary measures, and he insisted. And that's the way. This government has allocated more than €9 million for reinforcement in the summer months of primary care and we significantly increased the primary care assumption in the past law of presuppositions. And you know it firsthand. There is a situation that needs to be strengthened. We need precise resources to ensure the sustainability of the health system. We don't have much money this year. This prevents us from taking reinforcement measures that we had in other years, also in a situation of pandemic. And, therefore, I believe that this is also one of the paths that we need to work and that we need to do in front of the government of the State, where you have more incidence than we do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.119.0	To answer that question, you have the word Ms. Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.120.0	President, you have a special grace because, we ask him what we ask, he always ends up extricating responsibility and transferring guilt to others. It's just the same. In the end, I don't know if you are aware, Mr. Aragonès, that you are President of the Generality and therefore have to exercise. And that means putting in the resources that fall. They're more professional. Missing professionals? Yeah. How do we get more professional? Paying more and with better working conditions. And that's strictly up to you. Therefore, I ask you to act as President of the Generality, and this means, in this concrete situation, that you plan, that you strengthen the system with more resources and with more professionals and, above all, that you do not pay a_a_waiting to get to the twenty-five percent of the primary budget. Because it's that we've had it since we started, since more than two years ago. And we always find ourselves in the same situation. Therefore, it is a matter of depriving ourselves of responsibility, of taking responsibility and also of taking responsibility and doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.122.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, we want to take over all of them, the responsibilities. That's why we're independent, to take on all the responsibilities. And all the responsibilities also mean managing all the resources of the citizens of Catalonia. Whoever eliminated the covid fund is not the Government of the Generality, it's the Government of the State. Who determines how many MIRs we can hold in Catalonia is not the Government of the Generality, it is the Government of the State. And, therefore, who says what so much of the salary we can push into the pool of public workers is the basic legislation approved by the Government of the State, not the Government of the Generality. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, we want all responsibilities. That's why we're independent, because we want them all and we don't want to have an excuse for saying that it's someone else's fault. But to have all the responsibilities there must be, and until we have them, we must demand that whoever has completed their work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the reversal of the policy of dismantling public services]] [[317-00192/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Dolors Sabater, Member of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.124.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, do you intend to reverse your policy of dismantling public services?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, we will strengthen our policy of enlargement and support for public services, as the data show. We have more public workers than ever in history. We have the assumptions in the field of higher public services and we still need to move much further. Therefore, if it is with your help, we will continue to strengthen it with much more force.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.127.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Pains Sabaté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.128.0	President, public services are the main rescue structure for basic, personal and community rights. And from the brutal press releases of 2012, we accumulate two years of collecting thousands of reasons to demand strong public services to sustain lives worthy of all. They come very difficult months and, without this basic foundational structure, the dramatic consequences that we are already experiencing will take on geometric dimensions. Retailing health and residential services directly kills. We saw it at the worst moments of the pandemic crisis, and we're seeing it because of this dismantling of his government. Sanitation, the system of cures, education and the entire public sector. You continue with the task of promoting private business in the management of basic services. Let's talk about the public sanitation collapse. There's been a lot of talk. Lists of waits, midterms more than five months in surgical operations and more than two months in specialist visits. Professionals who quit because they can't do it anymore. And mortality that increases survives due to lack of preventive attention. We're talking about residences, dependence care models. I suppose they inform you of the demonstrations of relatives who have been there day after day also before residences, because you, your government, have not changed a comma of the residential model that left us unscathed images during the peak of the pandemic. You've kept a few unfortunate times, yet you've reduced them..., to condemn people to an amputation – amuntegated lives, abandoned lives –, and workers under very poor conditions. Education: Institution of working conditions. Professionals disappearing from the seedlings. Outside of the social sphere, outside of vets, outside of support services to the whole territory. Line-laying. This lockdown of the Can Village special education center in Mollet without alternative is not an anecdote, it's the norm. Dismantling, dismantling and dismantling. That's a scandal, President. We're not talking about everything they haven't done, no public banking, no public pharmaceuticals, no public energy, and in the stabilization process, more than five thousand workers... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.129.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.130.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the party. The most important programme for the stabilisation of public workers will be completed by this legislature and will be carried out in all spheres. In the field of health, in the social field, in the field of education, in the field of general administration. That's what we're putting to the end of this government, too. In the field of education, we have more public ownership centres today than last year's legislature. We have more public ownership groups today, in relation to the concerta, than not in the last legislature. And I want to remind you that the concerted form part of the education service of Catalonia, approved for the law of education, was widely approved in this Parliament in 2009. Therefore, we are clearly committed to strengthening public services. Obviously, we have a lot of faces. We have one of the main challenges, which is like facing a population that is aging. And as we face, too, this democratic fact, above all guaranteeing the best quality of life in this life expectancy, let us say, we are winning. And that's why the reinforcement work of the residential model is fundamental. And a few weeks ago, precisely, Constellera Cervera announced what was precisely the reinforcement in the area of residential places that we are taking from the territory. Obviously, we're a long way from where we want to be. We're a long way from where we want to be. But it's starting with initiative. It's starting, so... To get to a place, obviously you have to move forward and you have to walk to get it. Don't tell me that we've given public workers the conditions we've given this year, if what we've made is precisely agreements, agreements and agreements to strengthen the conditions of our country's public workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.131.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the corruption and degeneration of the institutions in Catalonia]] [[317-00186/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.132.0	Mr Aragonès, how long are you going to lead the corruption and degeneration of the institutions in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.134.0	Thank you very much, President. We will continue to work for a fairer, fairer society and for a completely free country. And I'll do it with ethics, transparency and responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.135.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.136.0	Mr Aragonès: prevarication, fraud against the administration, falsity in a commercial document and misappropriation of public funds. These are the crimes for which the President of Parliament, Mrs Borràs, her partner, will have to answer to justice in the coming months. One more case of corruption within separatism, which in addition to the immediate resignation of Mrs Borràs, whom I take advantage of to demand here in parliamentary office, should have very serious consequences for her Government. Because Mrs Borràs is nothing more than the current face of party use and ideological harassment that you have all been making since the institutions in Catalonia for decades. Because your plan has always been to take the money out of the Catalan pocket and take it directly to your wallets. Because everything is part of the same strategy, where corruption and degradation always go hand in hand. If not, let them ask you, Mr. Torra and the commissioner. Right, Mr. Aragonès? Corruption, yes, corruption to use the institutions of all at the service of a few, to profit from the money of all Catalans who are really having a bad time or to scam everyone, yes, separatists and not separatists, trying to hide systematic looting under the banners of hatred and confrontation. And degradation, yes, to use public money as you do for party purposes and condemning the Catalans to live without the protection network they deserve. Mr Aragonès, you do not represent the middle class or the working classes. Its distance with Catalan on foot is infinite, because they live and are part of a bubble of privileged people who since the 1990s are behind the permanent crisis and degradation of the institutions in Catalonia. And, as you live in a bubble, Mr Aragonès, you believe that the common problems are those that have your fellow bankers; and no, that is the problems of privileged ones. And that is why you are permanently refusing to debate in this Chamber when we come here to talk, for example, about re-industrialisation, climate fanaticism, security or Islamization, because your disconnection, Mr Aragonès, is such that you do not consider any of these matters the great challenges facing Catalonia, in the coming years, as relevant. Mr. Aragonès, face the challenges at once or you will be remembered as Aragonès, the coward or the titella of the elites.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.138.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I suppose they have seen that the degradation of democratic institutions... has been one of the strategies that, at times, especially in times of great economic difficulty, especially at times when the contradictions and dynamics of the capitalist economic system increase inequalities and require governments to put all the tools in place to reverse these inequalities, especially at these moments of anguish, the extreme right-wing use, to attack what? Inequalities? To attack insecurity? To attack the inequality of opportunity? , discriminations? No, to attack democracy, to attack democratic institutions. Because that's what really bothers them: democratic institutions. And it also bothers them that the debates that we can make in this Parliament are still about questions that, although they say they don't talk about it, we repeatedly talk about it. On re-industrialisation: Catalonia is facing one of the most important re-industrialisation issues of the past decades; and we must say so. And it is thanks to the work done, many years ago, to the collaboration between many administrations and, obviously, to the help of the Catalan enterprise and the priceless compromise of the country's workers and workers and thanks to their talent. When we talk about climate fanaticism, it means that we're closing our eyes in front of a climate change we're seeing. And if we don't see why we had fires 15 days ago and why we're running out of water in some parts of the country. They want to close our eyes before the climate change to continue to benefit from the economic practices of those who are polishing the planet with extractive policies and with a model that is absolutely contrary to sustainability. And all this always – always – there is one thing that does the extreme right; it did it a hundred years ago and it does it now: adorn it with some testosterone words that are absolutely unbearable, the coward. Listen to me, I think testosterone should be left at the door of the hemisphere; we talk like mature people, and that is what must be used to strengthen democracy, and that is what the citizens of our country deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.139.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the agreement on the presence of Catalan in the classrooms and the defence of the Catalan school model]] [[317-00190/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.140.0	Good morning, President. President, members of the Government, deputies and deputies... It seems more like a monitoring session to the President of the Parliament than not to the President of the Generality. And, therefore, in the first place, we want to express all the support, from Junts for Catalonia, to President Borràs, as to the members of the Bureau of Parliament, to defend the rights of the deputy to exile Lluís Puig and to advise in exile; all solidarity. [[Greetings.]] President, the course will begin without the application of the twenty-i-five percent of the castle to all educational centres in Catalonia. We exercised our sovereignty, we confronted Spain's justice, and we managed to protect the Catalan language in the classroom and the Catalan school model. It is a merit of a large majority of this Parliament, thanks to a shared effort that has made the agreement possible, after a very complex negotiation. We've been defending a new law in Parliament and a government decree since Juntes per Catalunya. Time has given us reason, and we celebrate it because it's a country victory. That is why today is also a good day to claim politics, the sovereignty of this Parliament and democracy. Now we need to know which Constitutional Court we will find at the front: if it is the same one that passed the brush of Alfonso Guerra to the Statute of Autonomy or can act with democratic principles, democratic agreements, like, for example, the Kingdom Unit with Scotland. Certainly, in this sense, this Parliament will have the opportunity, at the proposal of Juntes for Catalonia, to express all support for the referendum of the Scottish people so that the referendum of 2023 follows a success and Scotland achieves independence. As we also need to know which Pedro Sánchez we have in front of us or will find ourselves: if he does a new "I will support like the Zapatero, to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, or he will respect democracy, like, for example, the Kingdom Unit. We never know what Pedro Sánchez has in front of us: whether the one who gives support to 155 or the one who says or talks about « reunion; the one who spies on us or the one who recognizes that there is a political conflict; the one who vetoes the Junts interlocutors or the one who goes to press and says that he wants to join the dialog table; the Socialist Party that executes the thirty-sis_per_cent of the investments in Catalonia or also what makes it possible to agree on the Catalan. In this sense, the agreement of the Catalan has taught us that in politics, respect and sovereignty, it is possible to negotiate with guarantees; let us take advantage of it. In this sense, we wanted to ask you, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, we had good news this afternoon, and I think it was the only possible news, that you read them the parliaments and the courts don't do it, but what you do is interpret them and apply them, which is what they answer to the division of powers that we have established. So this Parliament did what it had to do. I'll do it with another degree of responsibility. First, in order to have a very broad agreement. I think it is good today to claim..., and I want to thank your group again, also other groups, which have allowed you to articulate, so all these legislative mechanisms are to say, in the end, a very basic thing, that the use of languages to schools must be based on the will of knowledge and ability to use languages, català, castella, aranès; that we have an unusual situation for what makes Catalan language and that therefore this object must be present and that all this must be governed by pedagogical criteria, and therefore, if I may be allowed to express, the tones of the classrooms and let the teachers and the teachers be able to do so. He assumed a higher degree of effort and we had to sort out the words very well because there was the space in which everyone could feel recognizable. I therefore believe that this is precisely the way we will continue to work in so many important areas of our country. Look, I don't know what Pedro Sánchez will have; what I know is what the President of the Generality will have: there will be a President of the Generality who will always defend the resolution of the political conflict, a resolution of the political conflict that decided the country's citizenship. The future of this country must be decided by the Catalans and Catalans – therefore, referring – and this must be done without repression, and the best instrument is an amnesty. And, therefore, this is what I am going to defend, at the expense of good governance, at the expense of the necessary policies, especially in difficult times such as the present for so many of our people, in favor of the welfare state, of equal opportunities and of accompanying citizenship at these particularly difficult times. Therefore, what I believe teaches us is that we do not so much look at which position others hold: we always strengthen ours, with consensus, with rigor, with generosity and with determination. If we're going through this, going through all the times we have like the country, I'm convinced that with your help we'll get out of here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.143.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about political consensus in defense of the Catalan school model and the presence of català at the school of the recognition of the inapplicability of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia]] [[317-00191/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Vilalta, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.144.0	Thank you very much, President. President, before anything else, I would like to convey to you the support of our parliamentary group before the announcement of the complaint lodged against the former director of the CNI, also against the company NSO Group, for the espionage of what was the victim of the Pegasus case. And we also add to the most necessary investigation in the face of a flagrant violation of the fundamental rights of his privacy, his civil and political rights, and drawings of people of the independence movement who have also seen his rights violated. Miri, doing everything in our hands is our job, what we are here for, and in the case of the defense of the Catalan language, even more. Just this day we got the first fruits: the High Court of Justice recognized that it changed the scene and that the feeling of the twenty-five percent that it wanted to impose the castle on the classrooms is inapplicable. Because right from this Parliament we have built, and among many people, a new legal framework: from one band, a new law in the Parliament of Catalonia and, from another, a new law decree made by the Government, which we have validated here, despite the votes of some because you are then overruled. And that's very good news. In fact, it has been shown that the efforts to recover the consensus, some consensus that at some point were left, were worth it because they allowed to recede this consensus of the eighty_per_cent in the defense of the Catalan school model. And we are also proud, and very proud, to have done and to have been part of this engine to rebuild the consensus and to do so in a way that insists on the part of our parliamentary group. In fact, doing nothing was not an option. At times, however, we also know that we cannot breathe calmly because the judicial process continues – now the Constitutional Court, despite having also the endorsement of our country's Board of State Guarantees. That's why I have to go on. From the Republican Left we work and work to protect the català at school – with its impulses, for example – and at all events, and to continue to support those who have not yet been in this consensus. In the face of judicial interference from those who want to win the courts what they can't win at the polls, before those who make filibusterism, before those who are immobilist, before those who marish it lost or before all or all, we defend politics as a useful tool to the people's service to help solve the problems, to rebuild the consensus that makes us strong as a society and that drives us towards the Catalan republic that we want to build. We know that this is also a good part of his political contribution, President, working with firmness, discretion and consistency to forge consensus and put institutions at the service of everyone. That's why we're asking him... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.146.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, in the first place, thank her for the support in this complaint that was registered this morning so as to arrive to the end in this case of political espionage. It is not only a defence of the fundamental rights from an individual point of view, but it is also obvious that the espionage I was called upon was because of my political responsibilities as well as as a member of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and in order to defend that this did not happen again with other political leaders, with other members of the head of government, that for political reasons it was actually spyed on, with no other citizens – before any violence came to an end and we went, and, obviously, so we expect those responsible to assume what they are looking for. From here, as I said before, the diluns produced a decision on the part of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that accepted the reality and that supposes a closure of a chapter of an assumption that has held us very centered and that we have spent this time pushing the català to school, to improve, to continue improving the educational services of the country, and that, therefore, the debates are centered on these aspects. But I remember that: you read the parliaments, and that's what the court recognizes; who has to legislate on what has to be the treatment of languages at school has to be the Parliament of Catalonia, it doesn't have to be a court, the courts don't legislate. This was achieved thanks, first of all, to the political consensus, which I want to thank again. Secondly, thanks also to the rigour; a proposal has been made recognizing what is the constitutional and statutory framework, which is not what we like, because we have not voted it, and what is applying has not voted it in this country. But from here on, we must also be aware that there will be a few, let's say, a return party to the Constitutional Court. But we also have to say that we are going with the best possible means: we are going with two decisions of the Council of State Guarantees which, for the sake of unanimity, endorse the constitutionality as much of the law approved as of the decree. And this is the path; the path is broad consensus – I said to my conference on February 14th –: let's focus on the consensus that unites Catalan society, broadens consensus, rigour, determination and work for the plural and diverse country we have, that the best way is to express it freely. That is why, in the next few days, we will once again have the opportunity to defend self-determination and amnesty as they do to resolve the political conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.147.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures the Government will take to improve the management and execution of European foundations]] [[317-00188/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.148.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Aragones, we live in complex, difficult and unpredictable times. It's over in Europe. I have witnessed the conclusions of the NATO summit in Madrid last week, and a call to international geopolitical reality. Now more than ever need unity; unity whenever possible. We need to keep things straight: the government, the institutions – the institutions – the country, as straight as possible. And, in the third place, we need to be clear, very clear, priorities and not lose track. I think we would agree that one priority, one of several, is to invest European funds well and quickly, where autonomous communities have a moving role. According to the available data, at the end of June, his Government has allocated 199,4_million euros of a little more than 1,500 that it has available; it is a 12,6_per_cent, a little less than the thirteen_per_cent. I think it's a low cipher, we could even say very low, but, to be positive, let's say that there's a lot more going on in this execution. Mr Aragonès, what measures have you taken or are you planning to take your government to improve the management of European foundations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.149.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.150.0	Thank you very much, President. So, man, in the first place, we've enjoyed having something to say in the management of the European foundations that has centralized the State. That is to say, it seems to me very well that you, with all due reason, say: "Listen to me, you will have to execute with all speed and with all speed possible, but it is true that the Government of the State invites us to some sectoral conferences in which the announcements are made and does not allow us to participate. Then, how does the process of European foundations that manage autonomous communities work? That they manage as the processing office, because in many calls we have very little scope to establish criteria. They are assigned, which means that they appear in a powerpoint; then they have to be assumed in the general premise of the State; then they have to be agreed, and once we have the appropriate signature and we have the cash effectively, we publish the resolution, which obviously has its administrative times, and, therefore, until the resolutions are firm, they are not finally awarded. Therefore, it is not concerned that the execution of the calls of the European foundations is fine. In fact, in the name of published calls, Catalonia is on the high strip of the territories. Therefore, they will resolve in the proper months. And you said: "We are at war with Europe. And there's a lot of reference to last week's NATO summit in Madrid. We are at war in Europe, mainly because we see it in Ukraine. I can't look at it at the NATO summit in Madrid. And, therefore, this also obliges us to make the decisions that must be taken in accordance with the maximum consensus. I believe that betting on an armamentistice escalation leads us away from the resolution of conflicts and that a purely armamentistice look does not help to resolve conflicts. I told you the past full. This is not a solution with more weapons; it is a solution in the field, many of the risks, with more food, especially to the world's raisons, very clean, on the southern shores of the Mediterranean, we urgently need this help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.151.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.152.0	Look, I want to be, as I always try, very respectful of you, but I also want to be very clear and very direct today: he disappointed me. And only disappoints that person from whom you hope nothing. He disappointed me because it's always the same – it's always the same. Listen to me, I said there's a 12,6_per_cent execution of some funds. And I'm asking him, and I'm offering to help him, that there's a better recourse. And I'm surprised to hear if you want to participate... Listen to me, you've disappointed me, Mr. Aragones, but I'm responding to him again by extending his hand. And, look, I've felt it lately – as I always do, with great care – talk a lot about Catalonia's self-esteem. You have my cooperation to raise the country's self-esteem. Accompany her with a little self-requirement. Let's get better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.153.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.154.0	Thank you, President. In order to strengthen the self-esteem of the Catalan economy, we do not cooperate with defeatist speeches, which often speak of two years of decay. You've done it. From here, I understand that the defense that European foundations are managed from Catalonia for you is a cause of disappointment. But, I'm there, fixed 'in other data and fixed 'in how many calls the Government of Catalonia has open. I've looked at it myself now. We're on the high strip of territories with open calls. So, it's resolvedral propers mesos. You ask me for European funds what the government of the state has not done with general assumptions and investments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.155.0	Time's up, President. We have finished the control session and, at this time, we suspend the session, because there have been four reviews on Lluís Puig's delegated vote and we will serve as the Board of Spokespersons. Let's continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.156.0	Let's resume the session. And I also take the opportunity to report an alteration in the order of the day, the result of the delay that the Bureau..., the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau, which have generated the reviews that we have seen, and it is that the fourth point of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the draft law of composition of the Board of Education of Catalonia, will be transferred to the dam of the plenary, in the late; it will be the first point that we will address when we resume the plenary in the late, at a time that we cannot yet confirm, but notice of this modification of the order of the day. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let's move to the second point of the order of the day, the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. They know that according to Article 49.2 of the Rules, once elected in the months of the commissions, their composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The months of the Commission of Justice have been constituted; Childhood; Climate Action; Economy and History; External Action, Transparency and Cooperation; Education, and the Commission of Study on the Historical Debt of the State with Catalonia. The new composition and election of members of these months is incorporated in the plenary file, which has been distributed to all Members. Therefore, I say to them that the reading should be done. [[Decree-Law 7/2022, of 14 June, amending Decree-Law 10/2019, of 28 May, of the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the system of ownership of the Generality]] [[203-00025/13]] Thus, what marks Article 49.2 of the Rules, we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2022, of June 14, amending Decree Law 10/2019, of May 28, of the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the system of ownership of the Generality. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Education Adviser will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Tea, therefore, the words of Councillor Josep González-Cambray, Councillor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.157.0	Thank you, President. President, Members, Members, today we bring, for its validation, the Decree Law 7/2022 of 14 June, amending the Decree Law 10/2019, of the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the Generality's ownership network; a decree law which was approved unanimously on 28 May 2019, on the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the Generality's ownership network, which was born to give response to various situations to meet the needs of schooling around with difficulty to find only public to build-here our buildings. Also this decree of 2019 gave response to various parliamentary initiatives that urged the Government to integrate into the public network centers that are private and also municipal, of local authorities. This decree has allowed from then on to cover the demand for schooling and strengthen the network of centers of the Department of Education. And since 2019, the later two courses, adding the integrations that we will have for the next course, have rejected a total of forty-three petitions, of which eleven have integrated or are in process of doing so. The law decree of 2019 made clear, too, what were the requirements to integrate a center, because this tool could not be used to rescue private projects that made economic failure, for example, in environments where there was no need to create public places to respond to need for schooling. The requirements set out in the first decree for the integration of the centres are: the request by the holder, on behalf of the school board; the agreement between the Department of Education and the holder; the satisfaction of the need for schooling, therefore, to give response to the need for places, to give response to those needing schooling, and the compliment of the objectives of stabilization. At the end of this request, of compliments of objectives of stabilization, there would be the conditions of occupation of the building to make the new public offer, of the building, of the center that still..., that goes without being the title of the Department of Education, more, at the same time, these conditions of occupation and adequacy, if necessary, of the different spaces of the center. Therefore, after this time, some concrete, or casuistic, situations have been detected that are not contemplated and that lead us today to make this proposal to review the law decree. Until now, if a building was unviable and beyond... "Be unviable what do you mean? It means that the building spaces that we had to incorporate into the public network do not meet the conditions to make a public offer. If this situation was given and we could not do the necessary work to adapt it to the regulations, this integration was not possible. With the current wording of the decree, therefore, we cannot give a solution to the problems that may affect the immovable of the centers to be integrated. And what we're doing today is a new essay that I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going to go back, I'm going back, I'm going back, I'm going to go back, I'm [[Widow's remorse.]] We also found that the current draft requires a heritage report to make the government's understanding of integration. And this is where, at the time of making this heritage report so that... if this building gathered the conditions, we found ourselves with many situations where, until they had created expectations, it was not possible to make this integration. And, therefore, with a general character, it is essential that the integrated centre completes with the property requirements exposed. And it is also true that in later years the experience of these requests, of these forty-three requests for change of title, has shown us that there may be exceptional situations; that there may be exceptional situations in which the building where the centre is located cannot meet these requirements. And in cases where the building cannot complete these requirements and the Education Department is willing to keep these educational projects in order to integrate them into the public network, which is what we do, before a general criterion of collecting property conditions, we incorporate this exceptionality in order to make possible – and not contradict the legal framework – the integration of educational centres, that the building does not meet the conditions and that we can also maintain in an exceptional way the educational projects of these centres that tend to or solicit this change of ownership. And so, as long as I'm done – we're talking about two modifications to the previous law: adding one_five required for the integration of centres, the ownership of the centres must have a valid title to the heritage where the centre is located, meeting the requirements established for existing educational and heritage regulations, and adding an exception, from the heritage area, that provides that when, in a socio-economically disadvantaged environment, the closure of an educational centre and the need for schooling imply the creation of a new public educational centre and the occupation of the immovable where the centre or the continuity of the supply is located, it is possible to integrate the temporary centre in an exceptional way. This regulatory change, also important to note that it compliments the 96 motion of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the situation of education, which was approved unanimously on the 7th of April 2022 in this Parliament. And, therefore, – and now, I finish – in the context of current need, in the context of urgency for so much to give solution to the lack of public offer enough for a band, given the increase in demand, as to the negative effects that the locking of centers entails, the approval of this decree gives you the possibility to smooth the proposed objects in the most immediate way possible. If we delay this regulatory change, we cannot complete the integration process initiated by some centre, nor the resulting creation of the new Generality Ownership Centre, before the very beginning of course 22-23, which is two months from now. And, therefore, for all these reasons that I have exposed them and for the support that has already held in this chamber the motion that urged to change this rule, we hope to count today with the maximum parliamentary support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This return was fixed to the next Board of Spokesmen in five minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.159.0	So thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Councillor, Members, Members, allow me first of all to welcome Vanessa Idoate, who is the mother of the educational centre, of the Academy of Culture; Ingrid López, who is the master of this centre, and David Quirós, who is the director of Education of my city. Because, effectively, the Government is bringing us a proposal for a decree to establish a procedure for integrating diverse educational centres into the public sector of the Generality; a decree that must allow the Government to effectively integrate existing and/or municipal educational centres into the generality's public sector and to respond to various questions. On the one hand, to satisfy the demand for public school places in certain municipalities, for example, in barrels like Torrassa, where there is a lack of space for a band available for the construction of new centres – it is to say, there are not enough buildings and, on the other hand, they could have been left unorthodoxed – and also in the last few years there have been significant gaps in the demand for a concerted school and an important increase in demand for public school, which have brought certain private ownership centres to a complicated situation, not to say crisis, and which, therefore, could cease their activities; under this umbrella offered by the decree, they could demand their absorption by the Department of Education. And, on the other hand, this draft decree makes it possible to compliment certain historical claims. One of them is precisely that of the Academia Cultura, an example that could include; it is a center of seventy years of history at the edge of the Torrassa, more than three hundred families who see their..., who see, their educational project, of their children, and twenty-seen working places of the Academia teachers. It was, precisely, in May 2021, that the Department of Education and Ownership, with the mediation of the Assembly and the Federation of Workers' Commissions of Education, came to this agreement to ensure the continuity of the centre for a month, and also the agreement collected the commitment of the department to initiate the proceedings so that the Culture Academy can be integrated into the public school network, guaranteeing the schooling of students and the current template. Precisely, the February of 2022, the ple of the Assembly approved a motion to ensure the schooling of the students, the maintenance of the places of work and the inicio of the journeys so as to build the new center to the terraces of the road Mas. A young man who was picked up for all groups, except one. Last week, at the handing over of the cultural academy, we talked about the importance of the struggle of the families; the import of the compromise of the Assembly, with its mayor in front of it; the import of the struggle of the trade union, in this case, especially of the Workers' Commissions; and the import of political and institutional consensus, as in the best way to solve the problems; the import of the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact. For me, this is, besides, the essence of politics. We've all had doubts throughout this process, but finally we've reached an agreement, the decree is signed. Today is a day of finding, today all parts are satisfied, and what we have to do from now on is keep working. In short, we will vote in favour of updating and clarifying the criteria for which a municipal or private educational centre may become a public title of the Generalitat, convinced of this convenience, because of the need for schooling, because of lack of public places, and so that the Government of the Generalitat assumes the management and ownership of municipal centres that pay special attention to the student with special educational needs, and much needed in the territory, but which respond to a clearly autonomous competence. For all this, and because we understand that it can contribute to an enrichment of the public education system, without assuming a threat to third parties in terms of legal uncertainty, we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Many thanks, madame, president; ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.160.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Manuel Jesús Acosta, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.161.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, Mr. Counselor, he's gone. The purpose of this Decree Law 7/2022 is to amend the decree law on procedures for the incorporation of educational establishments into the network of ownership of the Generalitat of Catalonia, with the aim..., specifically on 10/2019, in order that private or concerted educational establishments or other administration may be integrated into the network of ownership of the Generalitat in the public system, in other words, although they do not provide a real estate where those who meet the legally established requirements, provided that they are in an environment, are located in an environment, disadvantaged socioeconomically speaking and the area does not have sufficient places of schooling. We will vote in favour, of course, because we do not want to see such a dramatic episode again for families, children, teachers, the administration staff and services of the educational community of the Académie Cultura, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, threatened by closure, because of the non-compliance of Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray with the agreements reached to incorporate it into the network of public institutions. As you all know, finally, thanks to the effort, the commitment, the determination, the commitment of the families and the educational community, and together with the pressure of some parliamentary groups, including the Parliamentary VOX Group, today we can say that all the drama and the uncertainty to which 319 children's pupils, primary students, that together with the teachers and PAS and families, in general, of the Cultural Academy, Hospitalet, has ended in a far more laudable, more hopeful outcome than was originally hoped, just a few months ago. In course 22-23, some of these students are expected to study in barracks of the current Ernest Lluch School and the Eugeni d'Ors Institute. We hope that, by adding the additional provision, the redundancy of Article 2 of Decree Law 10/2019, this solution will be temporary and will not be chronified, as one of the so many patch solutions of the Department of Education, as the existence, at present, of a thousand_six barracks in the Catalan educational system must be said. However, this problem, far from being anecdotal or cyclical, is a structural cyst. The government drowns in the concerted school. During only the term of office of the councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray have already had to suffer the same tragic experiences as the educational community of the Académie Cultura de Hospitaland the more than 350 children of col·legi..., of the Escola Boix de Badalona, together with their families and all the staff and the whole educational community, and the three hundred..., more recently, the three hundred children of Col·legi Mary Ward of Barcelona. In addition, several schools have serious maintenance difficulties, today, or threaten closure, such as the Safa School of El Masnou, the El Brot School of Sant Joan Despí or the Camp Vila School of Mollet del Vallès. Mr Gonzàlez, I will give you a solution to solve this serious problem. Moreover, it is a solution respectful of freedom. Plan school places according to the demand of families, not the other way around, without limiting the choice of the centre by zoning. Ask families first, their preferences, and then do your best to make these preferences come true. Also, run the school check once and for all. Because, remember, you must guarantee the freedom of parents to choose the type of education they want for their children, as dictated by common sense, natural law, the constitutional mandate – I remind them of article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution, Llei d'éducació 12/2009, article 2.1, letter p and q, and article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This means that it has to protect all the models that exist today, educational, in our Catalan society: public, concerted, private, mixed, differentiated, secular, religious, inclusive or special. They are all essential models, fundamental in any society that is worth being open, advanced, plural and progressive. To underestimate one of them through social stigmatization, to extort with the withdrawal of the concert or, worse still, to try to impose a single model of public and secular school, is to rule behind the people and create inequalities in the face of the parents' difficulty in choosing the educational model they want for their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.162.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy – A New Cycle for Guanyar has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.163.0	Well, today we find ourselves here to position ourselves on a decree that modifies a previous decree, precisely because the previous decree did not cover these basic needs because the department does not do its job. The department does not plan the educational offer, does not make a calculation of the places needed every school year to school all the children and young people of our country. And we have on the table, right now, a decree that makes it easier to access all those concerted schools that fail or cannot cope with their waste or can't continue to provide education, so that they can be incorporated into the public sector. It is well known that we defend this bewilderment and bet for this public network and we are against this double network that violates the right to equal education for all students and promotes school segregation. But what is more dangerous than this decree, and even discriminatory, is its Article 2. In Article 2 of this Decree, it says: "Exceptionally, in disadvantaged circumstances with a school population in unfavourable socio-economic conditions, when the need for schooling cannot otherwise be met and the student cannot be redistributed in an adjunct manner, the integration procedure can be completed without the requirements established for the rest of the articles. This means that, even if an educational centre, an educational space, does not comply with the requirements or conditions laid down for the legislation as regards building materials or quality of buildings, spaces, ad hoc spaces for teaching... when these requirements are not fulfilled, exceptions can be made if this centre is in a bar of poor people, in an environment with families in unfavourable socioeconomic conditions. Therefore, we are talking that all educational centres must complete a series of requirements to be public educational centres, must have dedicated spaces, must have access, must have exits, must have spaces to be able to impart teaching with conditions, with quality, with guarantees and respect for the rights of our students' education, except in those socio-economically disadvantaged barriers, because if there is no room available in those spaces, and therefore there will be education for the poor or at risk of social exclusion, this legislation, therefore, is not fully relevant and, therefore, we can add this exemption. And if the building doesn't meet the requirements, it's the same, because, of course, it's an unfavorable socioeconomic context, they're families at risk of social exclusion, we're talking about poor people, we're talking about migrant people, and so they don't have the same rights. And, therefore, if there are no necessary classrooms, if the classrooms do not complete with the appropriate meters to be able to teach, if the landing spaces are not the adents to guarantee this educational quality of our student, or if the entrance or exit accesses are not the adequate ones or if they do not count on the security protocols that all the centers of the public network of this country must complete, it is the same, whenever it is in an unfavorable socioeconomic context, because we are already clear that this department does not bet for education in terms of equality and equity for all students. Like I said, it's noticing our position. We are in favour of deconcertization and bet on a totally public network. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of this decree, but we do not agree that they are dressed to the extent of incorporating concrete centres or centres... and that the door is opened to all the concerted schools that fail to be rescued with public funds, with public money that we pay among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.164.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.165.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Also greet the different members of the educational community of the city of Llobregat Hospital and also, obviously, members of the Academia Cultura of this city. We find ourselves, in this case, with a decree to amend Decree Law 10/2009 of 28 May 2009 on the procedure for the integration of educational centres into the generality's system of title, which is based on a motion which was presented by our parliamentary group, approved a few weeks ago, and which was precisely related to the controversy, with the problem of the Academy of Culture, of the Hospitallet de Llobregat, which affected more than three hundred students of this city and which posed the need to make this change from the table, and which, as has been said, is repeating a similar situation in other rights in the country, such as Mollet del Vallès, as well as Sant Joan Despi, among other examples. Therefore, we are ahead of a decree necessary to be able to effectively integrate some private, concerted centres into the generality educational network for the proper course 2022-2023, since many times, as has been seen, there have been problems of heritage nature that make it impossible to make this effective integration into the generality public network. This could lead, in some cases, to the fact that, in precisely socially disadvantaged circumstances, with a vulnerable school population, it is hard to see that there is not enough school space in the same area to respond to the closure of these schools, which we believe needs to be resolved. And we think that it is justice, in our view, to bring about this amendment of the decree, as a matter of urgency, which we approve today, placing this exceptionality of property requirements in these specific cases. From now on, we want to put it in place that it will always be good to incorporate concerted centres into the public network since this is a step further in fairness, to ensure the equality of the student throughout the country, and more at a time when there is an important democratic gap and it is proving that many concerted schools precisely want to take this step, and we understand that this is a realistic, progressive way of ending this double network that we have at these times in our country. For another band, we would also like to take advantage of the advent to remember that this decree of the 10th of 2019 that today we also modify..., or still has a pending assignment regarding the participation of the unions in the integration processes, which are not contemplated. And, as the same organizations, workers and workers have denounced, we also think it would be good to walk on this line. And, in this sense, and also here in his parliamentary office, the former Education Councillor was committed to taking this issue into account, but the unions continue to remind us that, in many cases of the transfer and integration of these schools, it has not yet been taken into account and is therefore being observed, in our own understanding and also in those unions, a democratic principle of representation of workers and workers, for which we also want to remember from our group, because the Government takes note and makes the relevant modification. Throughout the presentation, and bearing in mind that we are talking about this exceptionality, our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.166.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.167.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the members of the Academy of Culture and the other assistants of the educational community in our community who are here today in this Chamber, because today we are celebrating good news. I would like to make a preliminary consideration which necessarily affects any vote that will take place in this Parliament from now on which I think it is important; I think it is important for the legal certainty of the acts that we adopt in this House, in this Chamber and for the prestige of the institutions themselves. Today there has been a new caccada of the President of this Parliament, Laura Borràs, who has decided to disregard the decision of the Constitutional Court to revoke the voting delegation of Mr Lluís Puig, the fugitive from justice Lluís Puig, whose case it is clear that it does not enter into any of the assumptions for the granting of the voting delegation. It is clear that Mr Lluís Puig, fortunately, is not sick; fortunately he is not pregnant either, and it is clear that he does not go into any of the assumptions that would enable that delegation to vote. Mrs Borràs, however, and the majority of the Bureau have decided to overstep the rights of Members of this House by a decision that compromises each and every one of the votes we take in this Parliament. By the way, it commits them to an absolutely pilgrim argument. She was saying to me..., or Mrs Borràs says that, well, to the extent that Lluís Puig's vote is not decisive, the actions we take, the decisions we take in this Parliament will not be questionable. Listen, yes, but the problem is not so much whether it is decisive or not, but the fact itself, the fact that Mr Lluís Puig is voting. I give you an example, Mrs Borràs, which is next. Imagine a government that has an absolute, qualified majority in a parliament and that wins every single vote by goal. Well, if that government, as it has such an absolute majority, would like to send a monkey to vote in a vote, it could do so, and the vote, that vote, would not be compromised because the monkey would vote, press like any other Member, and there would be no problem here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.168.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, excuse me that you are talking about monkeys, but I am calling the question, because these considerations that you are making are not part of the issue that we are discussing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.169.0	I think they're part of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.170.0	...has been able to make them on the Board of Spokesmen. We made a pre-table, a post-table. Therefore, please ask him to return to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.171.0	Well, Mrs Borràs, you continue with your tendency to totalitarianism. I finish that argument with a comment. The problem is not so much the determining factor as the monkey's vote, but the monkey's vote. The point is that you cannot allow a delegation of vote that the Constitutional Court has made meridianly clear that it is illegal, Mrs Borràs. On the other hand – I return to the central question – we are here today before a decree of the Government, a decree that responds to the pressure of parliamentary groups, which responds to the unanimous agreement of the rest of the political formations, with some doubts expressed by the CUP, but in my opinion absolutely manageable by their vision of reality – it seems to me that these kinds of considerations should be made. And, in any case, I think it is good news that the Government has finally dealt with the complaints of a group of parents, of parents that we could define as "courage parents, the parents of the Academy of Culture", who have been fighting for months, mainly in parliament, but wherever it takes, for the sake of the well-being, for the future of their children. The truth is that the case of the Academy of Culture seems to me to be a commendable case of the extent to which a group of parents can get the public administration to do what it has to do and stop doing its job in the field, for example..., in a matter as sensitive as educational matter. The Government of the Generalitat, like the rest of the autonomous governments, safeguard a fundamental right, which is the right to education. And, therefore, to the extent that they protect it, they have to respond to the case of the Cultural Academy, yes; it cannot be that a concerted centre, from night to morning, informs the parents that it is going to stop teaching, that it is going to stop giving service to their children and that the parents are absolutely helpless at the dawn of the velines of the centers or of the public administration. This happens in the case of the Acadèmia Cultura and in other homologable cases, such as the case of the El Brot school, by Sant Joan Despí, such as the case of the Mary Ward school, in Barcelona. And that is why we demand that the Government put any consideration for the general welfare, the general interest, before any other aspect of its policy in terms of identity or ideology. It is clear that the Government of the Generalitat on this occasion has come to grips with the pressure of the rest of the groups. I believe that here we must highlight the importance of this agreement, of that consensus, of that will to reach agreements of all groups, and of the initiative also of the group of communes, which have been persevering and, in the hands of the families of the Academy of Culture, have achieved a worthy objective. I, Mr. Counsellor Cambray, who knows that I am not much given to recognize the merits, believe that in this case we must recognize that you have ended up listening to the educational community, you have ended up listening to the rest of the political formations and you have ended up listening to the families of the Academy of Culture. Which I think is commendable. That's all. We shall vote in favour of this decree. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.172.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.173.0	Yes, thank you very much. Telegraphically because I believe that practically everything has already been explained. First of all, of course, I would like to join the greetings to Academia Cultura and the representatives of the educational community who are visiting us today. And to point out that we will vote in favour, first of all, in coherence with the vote that we had in 2019 and because, in fact, what is sought is to try to solve some gaps that that decree had caused at that time and they have been perfectly explained here. And although it is true that some kind of legal solution could have been sought a little bit more..., in short, or better defined, it is also true that the feeling that a relatively rapid and satisfactory response has been given to a demand, in this case, for parents who were all right in the world, causes that, beyond these specific details, we vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.174.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.175.0	Thank you, President. And thanks from Junts and this congresswoman who speaks for her firmness. Today's brings the modification of this decree to the law that... – and above all, also, welcome the president and the councillor, who was leaving me, eh? –, the integration of educational centres into the generality's network – and, obviously, this is already regulated by the law of education in Catalonia –; decree that it was addressed for some reasons as the lack of educational equipment in some area, either because there was more demand, or because there was only public need. It is and can be a good tool that helps to rationalize, optimize and correct imbalances between the offer and the demand for schooling and the lack of school places. And it often avoids shutting down centers – here, therefore, to give welcome to the School of Culture Academy, and here that they have been able to get out –, it also avoids modules and helps a reduction of the budgetary expenditure. We are also clear that it is a decree that helps to correct – and that is why it was born – unique cases in places and with concrete situations. It does not have or must have a generalist character; it is to say, it cannot act throughout the system, it can only act by concrete situations. And today is the occasion for this amendment of the better of this decree for this integration in order to correct these patrimonial and legal aspects that we find reasonable..., and they arise, and, obviously, we will vote in favour of it. Now, like Juntes, we agree with this decree; we see that it is often a good tool to solve, as we have commented, unique situations, but we are sometimes concerned about the need for this petition, this petition for integration into the network of some centres, especially the centres of the social initiative network. And it's to reflect on it. And I need to find a solution because some centers, above all concerted... why don't they have more reason to ask for this integration? We, like Junts, are firm defenders of the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya, a double educational network that enriches the panorama of the Catalan school and that both the public and the concerted network are and are responsible fans of the education of the moment, work for educational innovation, as it could not otherwise be, and have a strong and other social commitment, adhere to the pact against school segregation and also to inclusive school. Now, why do you sometimes see people asking for this integration? And I'm telling you by experience in one of my city's schools, first-minute schools compromised with education, with the most vulnerable, with great social co-responsibility. So it's not for an educated project that doesn't work, it's not for a class of teachers that isn't fully motivated and engaged for their project, very often, not always, it's due to an unsustainable economic situation or a historically underdeveloped concert. For all it is knowledgeable that it is less, there is less public investment, that the delegated payment does not cover the cost of the whole staff, the operating expenses go all to their own expense, that they receive much less resources of psychopedagogic attention and a long etcetera; it is to say, all a glue of needs that have to be covered and that what helps them to survive, in good part, is the contribution that families make. It is therefore normal, at these times of crisis or at a higher percentage of vulnerable students, and with a chronic underfunding, that these schools suffer and suffer a lot and, in the long run, they are forced to close or demand integration into the public network. We, like Junts, are firm defenders of the Education Service of Catalonia, serve that it was necessary to work valiantly for the constant improvement of the educational quality of our school system; we are clear defenders of the double network, both the public and the social initiative, which represents within the Catalan school a thirty_per_cent. Catalonia has shown itself in the long history that the Education Service has been a successful system. It would be good and necessary, in general, for you to have a recognition, a maximum support to the whole conjunction of the Education Service of Catalonia, in accounts, on the part of some, to deny it or even to increase it. Like Junts, on the contrary, we want this Education Servant of Catalonia every time to be stronger, more robust, because we know that, for the education and for the present and the future of our country, he will be grateful to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.176.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.177.0	Well, thank you, President. President, advisor, deputies, deputies, workers, parliamentary workers, members of the Cultural Academy, educational community, company director of Esquerra Republicana Xavi Mombiela, at the Hospital... Well, this is the part, let's say, that closes the circle that we opened at the time, and that, certainly, the mobilization of families, the interest of political groups, the willingness of dialogue and agreement have made possible, therefore, that, at the end of a proposal, of a parliamentary initiative of the commons in a ple, ending with a proposal, a solution for a concrete problem, that was that of the Culture Academy; a problem that we were sharing, that we analyzed by way of a lot of educational purposes, all of which was an educational statement, but rather an indication of an educational situation. Therefore, we had to guarantee this public offer and, therefore, all this helped that the context was favorable because we finally made this decision. But this decision must also be accompanied by legislation; the legislation is what the Government has already approved at the time and which they are now ratifying with this decree in their parliament. This regulation does not give only answers to the Cultural Academy; this regulation gives answers to situations and cases that can be donated in different territories of our country. And, in effect, in situations where there is a lack of public offer, if some concerted or private ownership centre disappears, which is reinforced, because what we cannot afford as a society is to lose places of public education, places, offer for the children and children of our country if we have the opportunity to bring a solution to it. This decree essentially makes it necessary to identify those important elements at the property level that make it difficult, in this case, to integrate them into the system of ownership of the Generalitat de l'Academia Cultura, but other cases that we are finding ourselves in. Now, this decree – this decree – neither segregated nor violated. I understand the words of Congresswoman Ndiaye, but this decree essentially seeks to provide a solution – a solution – in situations of deep vulnerability that there is, and what it does not seek is to perpetuate a situation like you described, a clear situation of deprivation and precariousness, but it is all the contrary: we seek solutions to try to turn this precariousness and turn it into educational opportunities. And what we can't afford, what we can't afford, is that in barrels where there is an offer that has been reduced, in barrels of this type, we – we – don't bring back places and public places. Another question that I believe is also very important that is taken into account is that much of the responsibility for the situations that are given by the ownership, the ownership of the private character, which responds to an economic concert, certain, but does not make the investments and does not act on its buildings and does not act on its own system. Therefore, the responsibility of the department, in this case – in this case – has been exceptional, because, in effect, it has a decision that what it does is to strengthen the public system, what it does is to give response to the educational community, in this case the Hospitallet, and that, moreover, opens the door – open the door – to which these situations cannot be repeated. And it seems to me that this is a very appropriate and timely decision. And we shouldn't confuse terms. Just as we do not have to confuse this decree with other cases or other situations that are occurring in other educational centres in our country, as for example..., El Brot was mentioned, the special education school El Brot, which has a concert with the Generalitat, with certain situations and that, therefore, this concert, so, finally, now, after having notified it, will be maintained, but it will be maintained... But we also need to take decisive legislative steps to consolidate a public system that will reach everyone. And in effect – and in effect – today what we are doing is one of these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.178.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall be understood that the votes claimed are votes in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2022. I would like to inform you that the vote of Mr Lluís Puig will be added to the vote on the basis of the vote that marks the spokesman of his parliamentary group, in which he has his delegation. Therefore, let's proceed... [[Greetings.]] Thank you. Let us, therefore, vote on the validation of Decree Law 7/2022. The vote begins. The law decree, given the result of the vote, was validated with 134 votes in favour and no votes against, and no abstentions. Once this decree is ratified, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to be treated as the bill. [[Pause.]] Yeah. As long as there's a petition that's being processed like a bill of law, let's proceed to the vote. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, which received 11 votes in favour and 123 votes against, the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Motion for a resolution on Gustau Muñoz's memory and the victims of Francoism and Post-Franchism]] [[250-00628/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, to the sixth item on the agenda, debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on Gustau Muñoz's memory and the victims of the franchise and the post-franchise. This proposal has been submitted for the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left, of Junts per Catalunya, of the Popular Unity Candidature and the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. In the first place, the four proposing groups will intervene and later the parliamentary group will intervene and the rest of the parliamentary groups will position themselves. The speaking time will be, as we agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman, five minutes. It has the word, therefore, in the first place, the deputy Ms Montserrat Vinyets, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.179.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Gustau Muñoz, a seven-year-old boy, was murdered for a thirty-eighth-caliber bullet shot by a country police officer when, accompanied by his militia companion Jordi Martínez de Foix, he found himself 100_metres away from Plaça Sant Jaume. It was for the National Day of Catalonia, the year 78, where various organizations mobilized in Barcelona in a demonstration under the slogan "Outside the forces of occupation. Those who, like Gustau, like to denounce the farce of the Transition, those who denounced, like to denounce the actual lack of social and political rights and the maintenance of privileges for some through concessions, medals, various economic benefits, decorations and impunity, to these they silenced, and, in retrospect, it was made to escape beyond the rest. We would vote in favour of this motion for a resolution on Gustau Muñoz's memory and the victims of Francoism and post-Franchism, it could not be otherwise. We feel heretics of the struggles and political compromise of Gustau Muñoz. He, in his own moment, and in a comfortable moment, challenged the Transition, as we are following it today. In Gustau he chose a breaker option of the regime that was being built at that time; he said things, he defended positions that we continue to say and defend today. And it became clear that the rupturist option was the one that played, because the resignations at those times were harmful, such as the amnesty law of 77, which decreed oblivion over the crimes of the franchise. We want to thank the family for the years of struggle, persistence and memory, because the memory, for a long time, has been preserved by the efforts made from below, from the families, the community, not from the Administration, that bet by oblivion. We are aware that it has not been easy. Montserrat Roig said that if there is an act of love this is the memory; an act of love for Gustau, but also for the country, to keep alive and present the memory of what happened, a memory that is the one that gives meaning to the present, a memory that reminds us that some forms may have changed, but in essence, in times of conflict, of the question of the regime, it continues to resort to institutional violence; it continues the repressive thread of history, and therefore it is very often remembered that the State is at the disposal of all people who come to the street, when the people are mobilizing outside any year of freedom. And you very much feel that we remind the State that we too are willing to remember and not fail until we win. Gustau's father, deu years after his death, wrote a letter claiming justice: "We, the friends, the family, the citizens – who are not vassals – have the right to a public trial in which the facts are analysed, what happened is explained, ask the murderer – because there will be homicide, right? – its version, and at least pretend that it is this impartial justice of every rule of law that dictates what happened that day when a shot to the heart ended with a boy. There's never been this petition. There is a book on the survival of Francoism in the judiciary, propagated by Josep Fontana and written by members of the judiciary, which explains very well why this petition has never been complied with. Those who administered justice under the fundamental laws of the Kingdom continued to do so after the Constitution. There is no bibliography – it is a thorny theme to be open. One day, the blind was closed in the dictatorship's courts, the entry sign was changed and the blind was reopened in the morning. Justice had to be sought outside the Spanish State, as in many other similar cases occurred during the Franco-Franchism and post-Franchism, with the presentation of a complaint to the Argentinian Consulate of Barcelona based on the principle of universal justice. The limitations of the court's investigation of the complaint Servini come back to the Spanish State: when, for regulated conducts, the extradition of investigators is demanded, the Spanish authorities say no. It's about recon and repair and warranty of non-repetition, but what repair can exist if the crimes of Francoism and Post-Franchism are not investigated? Recognition is inseparable from the attribution of guilt to the aggressor by judicial means; the guarantee of non-repetition requires the identification of those responsible. There's a lot to talk about, but it's been a long time, and nothing's progressed. And it is said for some sectors that, like what was committed during the franchise, were crimes of inhumanity and that they do not prescribe, according to the international law, the fact is that today there is absolutely nothing to be investigated. That's what Gustau was denouncing at the time. So we only have to thank the family of Gustau Muñoz, for the memory, and Gustau, for their struggle. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.180.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.181.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... in the first place, greet the brother of Gustau and the family, who are here present. And with this joint motion for a resolution that we present in Comú Podemos, the CUP, Junts and Esquerra Republicana, we want to take a step further in the memory of this country remembering and dignified one of the victims of the Francoism, Gustau Adolf Muñoz de Bustillo Gallego, a member of the young people of the Communist Party of Spain International, who when he attended, as he said before, the year 1978, an alternative demonstration that the Barcelona Civil Government had declared illegal, and only seven years old, murdered by a country police officer, shot down by the railway car in Barcelona. It was, therefore, an episode more of the tragic and later years of the Franco dictatorship and the Transition, when almost two hundred people were murdered in the hands of the police forces led by the political and police apparatus of the Spanish State, all of them victims of the post- Franco coordinated apparatus and who have remained, for many years, unpunished and, therefore, without debugging or assuming the responsibilities they seek for this police violence, exercised against an innocent people who fought and went out to the streets to claim the return of freedom and rights to Catalonia and Spain. A situation of impunity that we hope will change with the involvement of Argentina's justice so that it is justiciable against the crimes of inhumanity committed, and it is condemned the political and material leaders of the facts, as well as the cleansing of the corresponding responsibilities of the different political authorities. In this sense, we celebrate that Argentina's justice admitted to bringing the lawsuit against the State filed for the family of Gustau Muñoz, a case that is not ailed and that could not be excluded from Argentina's justice. We must remember that among those responsible for this whole situation is the Interior Minister, Mr. Martín Villa, all that the corresponding court has admitted to bringing the appeal of the defence of the Minister. And we must remember that Martín Villa continues to feel the political responsible for all the murders that were eaten during the post-Franchism era, since he was the most responsible for the arm of the police repressor. A minister to whom the gold medal of the City of Barcelona was withdrawn, unfairly accused in his day, despite the fact that the Court of Justice of Catalonia resolved the revocation of the decision made for the assembly of the Catalan capital. That is why we want to urge Parliament to act as an accused and injured party in the case opened to Argentina against the crimes of Francoism, incorporating the case of Gustau Muñoz as well. We also ask that we recognize the task of the organizations, of the Barcelona Assembly and the citizens who with their perseverance have managed that Martín Villa, the most political leader of the police repression during those years, has finally renounced the Barcelona Gold Medal, and the decision of the Court of Justice of Catalonia. And on the other hand, we also think it's time to recognize and accompany all the people, family and organizations who have kept Gustau Muñoz' record alive for more than forty years. Yesterday, at Barcelona City Hall, there was a reconnaissance of more than thirty people retaliated from that time, where also one of them was Gustau Muñoz, and also were his family members. Therefore, we hope that with this proposal we can deepen the line of democratic memory in our country, continuing to drive policies of reparation, justice and non-repetition, demanding responsibilities, taking responsibility on the part of the State in repression and in all crimes of Francoism and post-Franchism, which cannot and must not go unpunished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.182.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya parliamentary group, it is now the turn of MP Jeannine Abella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.183.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, family members of Gustau Muñoz who today accompanied us, very good morning. On September 11, 1978, he was killed by a sham for the escena Gustau Muñoz, a seventeen-year-old worker, mountain lover and defender of rights and freedoms, who, even though democracy had been restored, had not just arrived. He died to think differently and to have the courage to go out on the streets of Barcelona to defend him. And yes, September 11, 1978, Franco had died three years ago, the first democratic elections had already been held, and the untouchable Constitution lacked two months to be approved. The democratic transition is what many saw as the light at the end of the tunnel and it was an extension more of the stage in which Francis Franco's fascism and all his repressive machinery was against whom he thought different. And it is that, sadly, the case of Gustau Muñoz is not winged and almost two hundred people were murdered during the post-Franchism with impunity. If Gustau Muñoz's death bore the signature of the regime, his burial was the definitive proof. The objective was clear: to prevent it from becoming a tribute, a motivation to fight with even greater gain. They advanced the time of the burial, the occupying forces were present, and even took advantage to hold company of the Gustau, sow the por and demobilize independence and the party, leaving behind altogether a family that had just lost a younger son who had gone to a demonstration. And it's that if there's still someone who hasn't understood, what can we expect from then? Clearly, neither 1936, 1978, nor 2022, repression will never put up with the longings of a people struggling for freedom. That same September 11, Gustau's father went to report the murder to the police station. Forty-three years later, there was no conviction, nor was there a statement from the material author of the facts, nor was there any guarantee that the evidence was not manipulated to end, in 1982, with an archive of the performances. And once again, before the Spanish injustice, it is the foreign courts, in this case the Argentines, who accept the lawsuit for crimes of inhumanity. Today, approving this motion for a resolution, from Junts to Catalunya we want to show our support to the family of Gustau Muñoz, with the character as accused of the Argentine dispute against the crimes of Francoism and the ex-minister Martín Villa, who is the political leader of all the murders committed during the Transition. We appreciate the work of the organizations, of the Barcelona Assembly and of all those people of civil society, for having managed to have Martín Villa resign from the undeserved Gold Medal of Barcelona, as well as to thank the relatives and entities who for forty years have kept alive the record of Gustau Muñoz and who are fighting because their assassination is not unpunished. We also urge the Spanish State not to continue to be an accomplice to the crimes of humaneness committed and to deploy the necessary mechanisms to investigate the criminal political responsibility of the former Martin Villa. And speaking of the government of the state, it would be no better to rethink the bill of democratic memory, taking a step further than the necessary recognition of victims and the idea of reparation and justice, beginning with the naming of the dictatorship for its name, a fetishist, and to assume that the nullity of judicial proceedings would entail a patrimonial responsibility on the part of the State. As a remedy, it would also be that this law goes further than 2007 and opens up the possibility of judging those responsible. But in the end and in the end, do you know what the problem is? That after the dictatorship came the Transition without any cleansing. I look at it if it was small, that today we have flushed it in such a way that its heretics occupy places in other courts, that they reinterpret crimes to shut down politicians and activists in prison and that they believe in the right to lay down and remove presidents and deputies from this Parliament or, if not, withdraw their vote. Commandments of State security forces which, with all due respect for their homeland, justify the exercise of violence against people of pau. People of hereditary title who are in position if they fall there; will fall, who will certainly cost us 8_million euros per year, let us know, and other hereuses who today occupy escons in this Parliament, and that the first thing they do is deny the proper concept of democratic memory, alleging that memory is individual. Justice, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition; collectively, it is clear. I'm done, President. They do not possess it easily or play net, but the "all bound and well bound must not prevent us from getting to the country we want, a country with a full democracy and a justice that can be said for its name: justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.184.0	And finally, in this first round of the proposing groups, has the word Mrs Maria Jesús Viña, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.185.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies... In the first place I want to greet the family members of Gustau Muñoz, who today accompany us: Marc, Carme, welcome. And I want to thank you for your struggle and to keep Gustau's memory alive; to give you more than a hundred and forty victims of police and para-police repression, which were produced in a context of a continuous transition of the Franco regime, where the forces and security forces were still commanded by the same leaders who led them during the Franco era. Now, before I go in, Marc would tell me that killing a person is easy, but returning his memory is very complicated. For this, many thanks for giving..., to put face to all crimes committed during the exemplary re-enactment or peaceful Transition. In this march where hundreds of activists, political activists and trade unions of different acronyms were tortured and killed, the seven-year-old Gustau Adolf Muñoz de Bustillo Gallego, the 1978 Diada, was murdered. That is why today we are approving the motion for a resolution on Gustau's memory and all the victims of Francoism and post-Franchism. Gustau was shot down by a member of the National Police while protesting for the freedom of Catalonia and against the pacts of La Moncloa. He fell dead on the Ferran street in Barcelona, and his lifeless body was manipulated to remove evidence of that terrible crime. Gustau Muñoz's case has not been resolved, still Roman in impunity, like so many other cases of Francoism, and still more than it happened during the Transition. The Spanish State has never respected the principles of truth, justice and reparation, thus violating the human rights of the victims of the dictatorship and the transition. Gustau's case is one of the hundreds that have had to resort to universal justice in the form of a lawsuit against the Argentine Republic, in the case of 4.591/2010 against the crimes of humane injury of the Francoism and the Transition. The lawsuit, filed by Marc Aureli Muñoz de Bustillo Gallego, brother of Gustau and who today accompanied us, opened the doors to what other crimes of the year 1978 can be judged, to be crimes eaten in a_marc of continuity of Francoism and its repression. The justice that the family members want is beyond the justice of the botxins and the material authors who produced them, who want the political leaders of these terrible crimes to answer before justice. They can't go unpunished, because impunity leads to dismemberment and repetition. All the actions aimed at demanding the cleansing of all those responsible who were part of the police, political and judicial apparatus during the dictatorship and the post-Franchism of the Transition have come to an end. I Rodolfo Martín Villa is politically responsible for the murder of Gustau Muñoz de Bustillo Gallego, because she is so guilty of my execution as to sign the executions. For all this, it is necessary to continue to promote policies of memory, truth, justice and reparation, and all legislative initiatives to condemn and prosecute these crimes, as was also approved in plenary session in the Basque Parliament, based on an initiative by Bildu which calls for the clarification of the political and criminal responsibility of Martín Villa, and adheres to the interlocutory of criminal prosecution. All this more to give recognition to victims, their families and defend their rights. It also means and dignifies those public spaces where crimes of human injury were committed, in respect of the memory of the people who were tortured and murdered by the repressive apparatus during the dictatorship and the transition, and to recognize all those people, organizations and institutions that, after more than forty years, have kept alive the memory of Gustau and that you have not let this assassination fall into oblivion. For dignity, for justice, for reparation and for non-repetition, we refer to our support and recognition of the victims of Francoism and their families. And for dignity, for justice, for reparation and for non-repetition, we ask you to support all points of this motion for resolution that we present to you today in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.186.0	Next, and to defend the debate presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.187.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies, deputies, and members of Gustau Muñoz's family who accompany us to the House today... The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress had raised a question to one of the points of the motion for a resolution which is presented today for debate; it was not taken up by the groups proposing the text. There is absolutely no problem with this, but I take advantage of the advisability of commenting on this not taking on the text of our question to ask for the separate vote on points 2, 3 and 8. Our aim was only to one of these points, but for different reasons, we respect these three points, we prefer to abstain, not with the intention, therefore, of blocking their approval, which will only produce the numbers of groups proposing the initiative, but simply not to share certain positions which, as is normal in the plurality of political positions of Parliament, are not strictly ours. We will vote in favour, yes, at the end of the vote. What is certain is that the facts have been explained by the groups proposing the motion for a resolution. There was a judicial process between 78 and 83, if I am not mistaken with my fonts, in which for two times the National Court reopened the case when the judge gave it to him, but that ultimately it did not come to fruition that a trial was held, that the facts were cleared. And, therefore, I believe that before a fact like this, before a person loses his life in the exercise of the right to demonstration, it is opportune to ask for the clarification of facts, a timely investigation and the establishment of the responsibilities that are relevant, and therefore our parliamentary group will give support, as we say, to most points of this motion for a resolution. Also, part of the debate has revolved around a question that has arisen especially from the later decades, which is a debate about the character of transition to democracy. And I and my parliamentary group are actually in favour of not mitifying any historical moment; the founding moments tend to be mitified. And, therefore, we understand that the application of the scientific method, in concrete terms to the branch of history, must lead us to assume that there may be no only criticisms of the most commonly accepted historical relation, but, obviously, criticisms of those who run the risk of passing from a certain historical production to becoming in the category of myth. But at times, we don't think it would be good to replace them with other myths about the transition. We therefore believe that the transition to democracy in our country was, like all social and political processes of dynamic character, not always..., going, not always, at the moment, with a guarantee that it ended up with a result like the present, with risks of democratic involvement that are very concrete, up to the half of the decade of the years before us; and that if we are satisfied with the freedoms we enjoy, with a democratic system that is perfectable, with all the human work and also with all the democratic systems of our country, but if we are glad that this is not for a gift or for a grant of rights that we wish, a democratic system that is perfectable, and that is all human work and also all the democratic systems of our country, but if we are glad that this is not for a gift or for a grant of rights that we have decided on reform, or for a transaction between various actors who are not working on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, not for a given gift, of, some elected officials who have decided reform or for a compromise between the various actors who are not working on behalf, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, but on behalf of, but on behalf of, on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf, and on the right, on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf of, and on behalf, we, and on behalf of, and on behalf of the right, and on the right, and on behalf of the right, the right, the right, and on the right, the right, the right, and on the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, the right, Therefore, making them memory is justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.188.0	I, finally, to position himself, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.189.0	Thank you, President. In this motion, those of the coup d'état of 2017 and its Puemite partners have the defachability to say that "two-hundred people were assassinated in the hands of the police forces led by the political and police repression apparatus of the Spanish State. Because we are in a Parliament and it demands institutional decorum to express my ideas with sincerity, but with good form, because if I did not use another way, and I will tell you that you lie, manipulate and are irresponsible trying to criminalise the police. They are instrumentalizing a death, in this case Gustavo Muñoz, to mess with Spain, with the judicial authorities, with the political authorities and with the police in general. Then they want to hold a former minister responsible for that death and they take advantage of it to ask the City Council to withdraw a medal, when the City Council already tried, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia said it couldn't be and he himself, the person concerned, had already personally renounced the medal. And, finally, you ask what you call..., the whole parliamentary arc, minus VOX, the historical memory, which is nothing but re-opening wounds, imposing opinions and spending more public money on ideological chiringuitos. Look, reconciliation is on the street, in families, and you're working on re-opening wounds. And in the face of its sectarianism, we will continue to work for the agreement of all Spaniards. But we already know why they do it: they do it out of spite, by imposing a lying, manic and fallacious narrative, and by limiting freedom of expression. And, of course, they do so to avoid talking about the rising inflation that reaches ten_per_cent. The population is having a very bad time, thousands of families have all their members unemployed. Social exclusion reaches twenty-nine_per_cent. Rentals, for example, in the city of Barcelona, reach eight_per_cent when salaries are not going to have that rise. More than five thousand people sleep on the street. We accumulate more than forty per cent of our nation's occupations. We live in the region, in Catalonia, more likely to suffer from home theft. We are the region with the most school sheds. The average time for a traumatologist visit exceeds 140_days. And for all this, forty per cent of the Catalan population has postponed their holidays and thirty have already cancelled them, because you are irresponsible and do not face the reality of Catalan problems. From the Generalitat and its powers, many measures can be taken to alleviate this growing inflation that causes prices to rise and, of course, to respond to the increasingly urgent social measures. By taking urgent measures such as reducing public spending, spending on the essentials, health, education and security, and eliminating that very important superfluous expenditure that you maintain and increase. For all this, they can lower taxes, they can lower taxes so Catalans have more money in their pockets...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.190.0	Mr. Garriga, I'm also calling for compliance with the Rules to get back to the issue. It's very clear the point we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.191.0	Thank you, President. So, the Board of Spokesmen accepts, as the president says, measures like these to analyze post-Franchism instead of actually assuming proposals like that which VOX has taken to the Board of Spokesmen, which the groups have repeatedly denied, such as rethinking the privileges of former presidents, who receive pension, personal release and private security. Pujol, Maragall, Montilla, Mas, Puigdemont and Torra ; six_million_euro. With this kind of suppression, we could solve the problems of Catalans and not with this kind of initiative that they do is to reopen wounds. But you guys love it... [[some applause]] They love to play revisionists of history. You will abandon sectarianism and a narrative, as I have said, biased and fallacious. With this proposal they offer society not solutions to its problems, but lies, resentment, division and confrontation. They offer the company what you call this historical memory, which is nothing but the historical imposition and limitation of freedom of expression. To finish, I'm not counting on us for this young man. Trick at the door of other games, because with us they will find agreement, found, reconciliation and truth and, above all, solutions to improve the lives of Catalans, and that these, Catalans and all Spaniards, can arrive within the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.192.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.193.0	Thank you, President. Well, I want to begin this intervention by welcoming and thanking you for your presence here to the family of Gustau Muñoz. His tragic death, of course, deserves all my condolences, all my solidarity, all my respect. And I want you to go ahead, because from a human point of view, I think nothing more can be said about it. It is true that we are here in a chamber of political representation and in the end the arguments that are brought here are essentially political arguments. What the parliamentary groups present in this House and who are presenting this motion for a resolution are basically instrumentalizing, politicizing an absolutely sad, lustful event for the family and doing so in a way that I believe is absolutely obscene. I sincerely believe that the will to make historical revisionism, the will to try to land an exemplary period in the history of Spain as that of the Transition, a period in which there were efforts on all sides; there were efforts on the part of people of the left, of people of the right, of reasonable people, in any case, who wanted national reconciliation, who wanted consensus, who wanted the will for the Spaniards to give our hand again. I understand that some people are rehearsed... president, please, if I can put up with the time, there's some mig-true person here who won't let me focus on the speech. No, it's important that you can say whatever you want quietly without anyone constantly saying things to your ear. Please. I get it, I get it... well, I hope I've stopped time, yeah? President, let me stretch it from behind. Thank you, President. Okay, but please. Really. So, what is evident is that, to you, the nationalist parties that defend an idea of constant confrontation, of animating the political opponent, of direct liquidation of the political adversary, you repeat a period as lucid in the history of Spain as that of the Transition, where there was so much high eye on the part of many actors. I think it is important that a person from the centre of the left can claim without any problem to characters in our history such as Miguel Herrero Rodríguez de Miñon or Manuel Fraga, or Minister Martín Villa. I think it's important that a right-wing person can claim characters in our history like Mr. Carrillo, like Mr. Jordi Solé Tura, or like other references, like Mr. Peces-Barba. I think that's our memory, that's a moment, Mr Pedret – I disagree from respect for you –..., I do think it is important that we give you the foundational character that has this moment and that, moreover, we do not fear to mitigate a moment when the Spaniards were up to the point of history. The Spaniards were during the period of the Transition..., we certainly scratched the great height. Those who want that to go down, those who want to squander that heritage that the Spanish have with the Transition, are precisely those who hate reconciliation, those who hate consensus, who hate understanding between different, those who want to break Spanish society. Some pretend..., we saw Mr. Otegi yesterday saying that what they want with his support for the historical memory law is to put in check a speech too good about the Spanish Transition. Well, that is Mr Otegi's objective and that is exactly the objective of the political forces that are presenting this proposal today. Therefore, I believe it is important to say to you, lords of the separatist parties, lords of the commons, that, indeed, the Spanish Democrats will always claim before Carrillo, Mr Fraga Iribarne, Mr Martín Villa, Mr Jordi Solé Tura, Mr Peces-Barba, Mr Miquel Roca, that not Mr Otegi; no doubt, you have the very clear. We will always do it by the Spanish Democrats and, of course, those are heroes of our Transition, not villains; quite the opposite. You are trying to do a nauseous historical revisionism exercise, absolutely based on fallacies, lies, data absolutely taken from context and extemporaries. That is why I think your attitude is certainly reprehensible. I say this to you from the most absolute tranquillity, from the most absolute respect and absolute decorum of Parliament, because I believe that we must never lose our forms. But it is certainly very sad, it is very sad, gentlemen, that you are committed to breaking a historical process, an exemplary process such as the transition process. You live from hatred, you live from confrontation, you live from fanaticism, you live from sectarianism, you live, in short, from the Cainite confrontation. And that is exactly the opposite of what the Spanish Transition represented for the vast majority of good Spaniards. That is why the vast majority of good Spaniards and also Catalans, particularly Catalans, gave or gave absolutely overwhelming support at the time to the Constitution, which was the result of the law for political reform, of the Spanish Constitution; in short, a process, I insist, exemplary, inclusive, a process that all Spaniards should be proud of. They can only want to liquidate this process those who precisely hate, those who hate unity among the Spaniards, those who hate national reconciliation and those who continue to commit themselves to reopening old wounds and to civil war. Those are you; stand before the mirror. And I certainly regret that you are making such an absolutely nauseous and spurious use of an event like the one you have brought to this chamber. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.194.0	Finally, to indicate whether or not to accept the emena presented and what text will be the one that will be submitted to vote, has the word, for a turn of two minutes, the congresswoman María Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.195.0	Thank you, President. I will do this last intervention on behalf of the proposing groups, the group of the commons, the Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity, of Junts per Catalunya and d'Esquerra Republicana. And before I make the position on the emena, I would like to reiterate my support and thank the family members of Gustau Muñoz before the barbarity that they had to listen to today in this hemisphere, mainly for the heretics of Francoism. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much. Mr Pedret has already said that we have not accepted the message he has proposed to us. We had proposed a draft, we tried to trade it, we couldn't come to an agreement. It was a thought they wanted to find out what kind of security Gustau murdered. We think it doesn't matter who they are, because it's already determined that it was the police forces that were there at the time. Therefore, we decided that we would not accept it for various reasons, because here we have come to do politics, that it is our main and primary function, because that is why we have been chosen and that is what we are doing in this parliamentary initiative. We have at our table, in its parliament, political actions in the field of democratic memory, a need that many groups have been defending for many years, because to repair the hardships and injustices experienced by the victims of the Francoism and the post-Franchism must be our objective. We did not conceive a partial estimate of what we propose in this motion for a resolution. We would have liked to count on the support of the Socialist Party throughout the proposal, and not just in one part, because they are supposedly compromised in these values of democratic memory, justice, reparation and non-repetition. And, therefore, the votes that you cast do not reflect what many families are waiting for to repair this memory of their family members murdered and tortured for the Franco regime or for the Transition. Finally, I will only tell you one thing that takes advantage of Any Fuster: "Often, almost always, silence is also a lie. Make your conclusions. We will find ourselves in the struggle for a free, fair, democratic and recognizable society and reparation for the victims of repression. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.196.0	Well, then, and attend to the separate vote petition that we have received, we will vote in the first place... Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.197.0	Yes, Madam President, to prevent voting, if it seems opportune, based on an article in the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.198.0	Based on what article of the Rules?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.199.0	In Article 41, which refers to the functions of the secretariats. If you could read the literality, I would explain why this request for a word in two seconds, if you leave me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.200.0	I'll leave you two seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.201.0	Miri, Rule 41 says: "The secretaries supervise and authorize, with the President's visa, the proceedings of the plenary sessions of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen. In addition to the certificates that are issued, they assist the President during the sessions to ensure order in the debates and correction in the votes. Collaborate in the normal development of the work of the Parliament, according to the dispositions of the President. I'm on it. I think it's very important the voting correction point. I'd like the secretaries of the months to authorize or donate the visit to the voting correction. I think it's important, let's just say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.202.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.203.0	...for the legal certainty of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.204.0	Thank you, Mr. Martín Blanco. Thank you for reminding us of the article of the Rules, which the secretaries know perfectly. And I repeat, once more, that in agreement with the agreement adopted by the majority of the Bureau, the vote of Mr Lluís Puig will be added to the vote amount on the basis of the vote that sets the spokesman of his parliamentary group, which is where you have a delegate..., in which you have the delegation of your vote. One more time, therefore, after this agreement of the Bureau. And let's go back..., resume the votes at the voting point that we will do together now, the vote on points 2, 3 and 8 of the proposal. The vote begins. These points received 82 votes in favour, 20 against and 32 abstentions. We shall then vote on the rest of the points in the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on Gustau Muñoz's memory and the victims of Francoism and post- Francoism was adopted with 114 votes in favour and 20 votes against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you. And we suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.205.0	Let's resume the session. [[Catalan Education Council's composition law project (totality debate)]] [[200-00007/13]] And we're doing this with the full debate on the Catalan Education Council's draft composition law. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, this legislative initiative will be presented on behalf of the Government, the Councillor of Education, and Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.206.0	Hello, President. I was trying to push... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Excuse me, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I was trying to push... [[The president intervenes without using the microphone.]] I hadn't done it before. Is that it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No one's taught, huh? It's all about life. I've never done it before, that's why I pushed it, but I found it very low. Thank you. It's not like I'm going through, it's not so high. Okay. So thank you, President. Members, Members... today we present to you the draft law of composition of the School Council of Catalonia. And here, in the name, we find one of the main changes, because what we know so far as "School Council" is called "Education Council", to gather this more global, more transversal view, than education, from the centers and also outside, in the community. And this is the result of what we always share from the Department of Education: putting infants and adolescents at the center of our policies, at the center of education. The School Council of Catalonia – you know – is the superior consulting body that ensures the participation of the different representatives of the educational community. It was created in 1985. It was a very academic school council, where the educational community did not have a presence, with a very small presence of women, for example; it was about the sector of the "pupil pairs", the "teachers". It's obvious that the inclusive look wasn't there yet. The 2009 Catalonia Education Law repealed the 1985 School Council Law and set a new year's deadline for making a new law with the rank of law that set the composition. Now, more than thirty-five years after that School Council of 1985, and the legal deadline set for the 2009 Education Act to fix its new composition, it is necessary to update it, it is necessary to adapt it to the legal framework in force and to adapt it also to the present time and the new reality, expanding the gaze and the representativeness of the educational community. According to the law of education, the composition of the School Council of Catalonia must be established by law, and, therefore, this rule we propose today, which in fixed the number of representatives in each sector. For various circumstances, this law could not be processed in the terms set to the LEC and up today, now, to this chamber. And this bill doesn't need no no-res. It is based on document 2/2008 on the composition of the School Council of Catalonia, approved in plenary session of the council itself on October 30, 2018; a document sufficiently debated in the case of the council that backs contributions from all members who currently form part. One of the main elements, as he pointed out, is this need to open the Catalan Education Council to our sectors related to the education of our children, to the education of our young people. And it is sought, therefore, to order the participation of the current collections of the educational community opening the council to you. And, in this sense, we want to respond to petitions from various entities and collections to form part of it. Thus, this new law is not only necessary, but will make the composition of the board more flexible to enable it to adapt to the new educational realities. With the new composition they will also have to approach changes in their functioning to make it more visible, to make it more effective in their task, taking advantage of the enormous opportunities given to us by the new telematic instruments and contributions to improve democracy from what is called deliberative democracy. Likewise, I will propose to this new Education Council of Catalonia a reflection and a calm and profound debate on the possibility of an educational participation law to update and allow synergies between school councils of centres, municipal councils, territorial councils and education councils of Catalonia. Because we believe in participation, because we believe in real participation, structured participation, where we all participate, but not just where we all participate, but where we all feel that we all participate. And, therefore, we bet, from the Education Department..., I will offer the new Education Council this opportunity to develop a law of educational participation with dialogue and consent with all participants. And, if I may, I will enter the law. For what he does to the content of the law, the first novelty we find – he said a moment ago – is the name change. The Consell Escolar de Catalunya is called « Consell d'Educació de Catalunya. Article 2 is already defined as the composition of the School Council, and this composition is based on three sectors: the first sector, the Administration; the second, the educational community of the school centre or community, and the third, the educational community. Thus, for what it does to the Administration, we include the educational administration, the administration of childhood, adolescence and youth, the Catalan Institute of Gifts; and for what it does to the local Administration, the municipalist entities: the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the presidents and presidents of the territorial school councils. For what it does to the educational community of the school or school community, we include the teaching staff – teachers, teachers –, families, students, administrative staff and servants, professionals of care and education and the holders of private educational centres. And, for the education community, there are the professional sectors related to education, universities and prestigious personalities, professional colleges and the Catalan Institute of Studies, institutions promoting educational innovation, social workers – i.e., employers' organisations and trade unions –, child and youth councils and authorities and their professionals. In order to establish equal representation, each of these sectors may hold up to a third of the board members, with a maximum of twenty-five members per sector, and it shall be established that the representation of the various lessons and the public and private ownership of the educational centres must be proportionate. With the incorporation of new representative components and the rebalancing of existing sectors, it is intended to reproduce the diversity and plurality of the educational community. The Government will appoint these representatives on the proposal of the Council, always on the proposal of the Council, and also always with criteria of proportionality and plurality. This representation responds to a broad educational perspective and a plurality criterion. Until now, the criteria of the law of education are based only on the quantity, but now it is also fixed in the quantity depending on the diversity. For example, we do not want to have representation only of a type of centers or of a type of families, because everyone has to have a voice and everyone has to be heard. And the representatives of the Administration will no longer be only representatives of the educational administration, but they have also included representatives of the administration of childhood, of youth, of the Catalan Institute of Gifts, etc. For what he does to the council's structure – a brushstroke to the council's structure –..., four organs: the presidency, the vice-president, the members of the council and the secretary or secretary. The Presidency shall correspond to the Councillor or Councillor competent in the field of Education, who may delegate it, once escorted the Council, to one of its recognizable members in the world of education. This is already so now, and, in fact, today, accompany us – let me say hello – the president of the School Council of Catalonia, still, properly Board of Education of Catalonia, the Jesús Viñas. And I also greet part of your team, who is here with us today. Then, we also believe, in this structure of the council..., is created the vice-presidency, which corresponds to a member of the council ple on the proposal of the councillor or adviser competent in the matter of education and once escorted the council. Its function is to replace the president of the council in cases of absence, vacancy, malaise or justifiable cause. The members of the council shall appoint the councillor or advise on the proposal of the organisations represented. These entities and bodies will also be able to designate alternate persons. In fact, it was valued that this mechanism was the most adjunct to be more flexible and democratic at the same time and to meet the criteria of plurality. They will have a four-year term, limited to ratification up to two more terms as maximum. In the case of the presidents and presidents of the territorial school councils, they will be members of the council while exercising their duties. And an important element, too – very important, if I may – the parity: both the composition of the ple and the different sectors of representation will be equal. And, lastly, the secretary or secretary will also be a person at the education service and will also appoint the advisor or adviser competent in the field of education. Now, I'm done. In the band of everything I have just told you, it should be noted that the Education Department will provide technical, administrative, personal and material support to the council under the supervision of the secretary or secretary of the council. This draft law also regulates the possibility for Council sessions to be attended by representatives of entities and experts because of the subjects dealt with, for study topics, for debate topics or for the participation processes that take place. It was considered adjunct to establish a six-month term from the approval of the law because the advice to the government is to represent the different sectors for its approval and to develop its organizational and functional standards, according to this new law. I have explained to you, to a great extent, the changes in this bill that must allow us to have a council of education in Catalonia that is more open, closer to the educational reality, adapting to the time we live. The Department of Education, through the Secretary of Educational Transformation, has promoted this initiative and incorporated all the elements suggested in the opinion drawn up by the School Council of Catalonia, to which I thank the feta work, detailed and meticulous work of all its members. I hope that today I can count on all the necessary support to start its parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.207.0	Next, for the defense of the totality that the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has presented, has the word the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.208.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the explanation of your bill for the composition of the new Education Council of Catalonia. Yes, it is true that we have put forward a proposal, we have put a message to the whole, above all because we consider that the wording..., if not, the literality of this bill points to a line that what it does is, basically, to give even more power to the Administration in an area where we believe that we should open up more debate on the possibility of intervening in other areas of our community's public life. And, in this sense, we regret, therefore, that you still point out, according to your predecessors and your advisor, that this will of control of the Public Administration will be basically to end up making a council of education from Catalonia to its measure, a council that you allow them to control in a way that still more closely the educational environment in our community, that you allow them to control in a way that still more closely what you have to see with the contents, with the language, all the fields that are functional in the educational space of our infants. And that's why we've presented a statement to the totality. We will then, in the parliamentary process, see what is the definite result of this bill, how it is plasma in a strict sense law, and, above all, what development regulations give it to you. We have – forgive me, counsel – a certain mistrust in your ability to respect the pluralism of entities that may have some participation in this Catalonia Education Council. For this reason, when you include among us, let us say, the three pots of this new council educate the Catalan Institute of Studies, to us it seems absolutely reasonable, it is something that was already planned in the previous Council of School of Catalonia, but we do not understand, or consider that it forms part of its failure to minimize the linguistic plurality of our community, for example, because there can also be no representation of entities defending bilingualism, or even to do something more homologable to the participation of the Catalan Institute of Studies, a representation, for example, of the Royal Academy of Spanish Language, which would be perfectly reasonable in the case of a bilingual community with ours in which both catal and castle have a balanced presence. And I think that taking into account..., if not, the participation of the Royal Spanish Language Academy in the field of education in the School Council of Catalonia would be one thing, to our mind, absolutely accessible. On the other hand, when you talk about educational and cultural entities that have something to say in the educational debate of our community, to us, we fear that once more we are giving a decision to entities such as the Language Platform or, finally, from the cultural point of view, entities such as now Cultural. Let's hope that this bill does not end with another wave of sectarianism in the field of education, which ends up causing, of course, enormous harm in the field of education of our children. And we sincerely believe that this compositional proposal that you are making opens the door to a government-sized council that is precisely characterized by a lack of respect for the ideological and linguistic pluralism of our society. That's why we've presented this whole thing to the whole world. Obviously, we will make our contributions in the most immediate event and try, as far as possible, to introduce some changes that allow legislation regarding the Catalan Education Council that makes it, let us say, a much more useful organ of the educational community, a much more plural organ, an organ that really recognizes the diversity of education in Catalonia. But you will have to understand, Mr. Counsellor, that, based on the precedents and how you are led in matters such as now respect for the history of our community, the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, or, most especially – yes, very especially – the linguistic background and the institutional weakness of the language of most Catalans, which is Spanish language, so we can't help you having a blank check to do what you have with this organ, which is funamental, we insist, for the education of our infants. Therefore, we will vote against, and that is why we have presented our speech to the whole. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.209.0	Next, let's move on to the turn of the parliamentary groups to fix their position. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress are back on the agenda. I have the word Mrs Rocio Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.210.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. Today we are talking about the bill for the composition of the School Council of Catalonia, four years after it was to be made, and three years later the School Council approved a report addressed to the Government saying that the deadline for the Education Act 12/2009 had already expired. So, before anything else, remember that the laws are to be completed, and we're already late. We believe that we need to get to work already because the new composition of the council, which will be dealt with by law, must give impetus to the education system and encourage participation. The School Board of Catalonia, as we say, is the senior consultation and participation body created on 85. In accordance with the regulations in force, the Chair of the School Board shall correspond to the Councillor or Councillor, or the person to whom I may delegate, and it would seem that this is the criteria that have been taken so far. Since the date it was formed, it has been presided over by new people, including that of the current president – whom we also greet, good late – and highlight that only three have been women. The name that is proposed in it would seem adjunct, so to name it « Education Council expands the abst of this organ of participation to sectors that were now out and long ago they would have to have representation and see. It is also fair to sectors that have made progress over decades in our education system and that have been a counterbalance to the decisions of the Department of Education, especially those that have made scandals to the educational community and to the faculty. We must also look for solutions to problems that have occurred and that have occurred in the last few years, that from the council has contributed, and much, to the quality of education in Catalonia. Now is the time to incorporate, among others, teachers' cooperatives, special education centres and rural schools, which so far have no representation. Also the local world, as it was a long time ago. We also think that the centres of second and new opportunities, which work, and much, to create formatary itineraries and to combat the abandonment of studies to compulsory secondary and post-compulsory, must also have their own view, because so far our school, our educational system, is not included, today. They must also be professionals in the social sphere, in mental health, in psychopedagogy, and also in education in reading. The education in the classroom, the entities, I want to listen to them. They contribute to 360 education and also to this education outside the lectual timetable; they contribute to social cohesion, to the integration of diversity and to the life of our cities and towns. In short, we want this new Education Council to be an example of what we find in Catalan society today, to look forward to the future, to see all the ways and means of thinking, to get to a point in the debate on the decisions taken by the Education Council and the Government of Catalonia. It has certainly been the result of the chance that this preliminary draft of the law is present here, after years of being overtaken by its term, when we recently saw how the education council had unilateral decisions without taking into account its recommendations. Let's hope that in the future this can be reversed and we won't have to see it any more. Therefore, in the future it will have to be a more plural and diverse space, also because it ages to guarantee the diversity of genera, also this match that has been thought up, and the presence of women. With the new composition to be created, we think that these excluded sectors too, so there will be a need and clarity, because they have brought solutions to problems that have appeared in our society, and in the future we also think that they will contribute to the quality of the system and education in Catalonia. And from here on, our parliamentary group wants to give thanks to the teacher and to the addresses of the educational centres, which during these two courses and months have given the best of themselves to help the student and the families overcome difficulties and advance in their learning their studentship, without obviously forgetting the success of education. We think we need to go back to the Department of Education for more resources – now it's very acute, for lack of public investment from the Generality – and also that the educational centers feel how it reinforces the social and psychological attention of their students, today clearly better. Throughout the presentation, we stand in favour of the processing of this draft law of composition of the Board of Education of Catalonia, which sense of doubt requires the involvement of everyone and the participation of all the sectors that work there and that want to raise it. Catalonia will advance if it is done with public investment and has a quality education system. We think that the Education Department will have to listen more to the Education Council of Catalonia and also incorporate their agreements into the decisions they make, and do not need the participation of sectors and the educational community. Trust me, that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.211.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Deputy Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.212.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late. This bill has a very clear objective, which is to redefine the composition of the members of the School Board, which goes from then on to be called « Board of Education of Catalonia. And that is why the council will be represented by three sectors: the first sector would be administration; the second sector, the educational community of the centre, and the third sector, the educational community in a broader sense. In particular, Article 2 refers to the sectors that make up it. Thus, in the field of Administration, the first sector I have considered, we find ourselves with the novelty that the Català de la Dona Institute has its representation. We believe that this is absolutely out of the question, because, as I know, there are children in the Catalan education system. And, for another band, I believe – I think so – that the Catalan education system does not segregate by sex. So, why do you insist on placing a government agency...? I remember, the Català de la Dona Institute is a government agency that supposedly only represents the half of the educational community. In short, the Català de la Dona Institute is a "xiringuit" that costs almost all Catalans 10,5_million euros. It is therefore not legitimate to form part of the Board of Education. On the other hand, in the same article 2 it refers to families as one more agent in the sector of the educational community of center, the second sector that I have considered. Equivalent to the representation of families in the Education Council with the representation of the representatives of the teaching staff, the administrative staff and servants, and the professional of care and education. But in the third sector, that of the wider community, there are no representatives of the families, which truly constitute the major social agent that exists in our society. Nevertheless, there are representatives of professional groups, representatives of the oci and education sectors and social educators, who also form part of the second sector. That's a contradiction, obviously. May I remind you that the protagonist of the educational fact is the child, and that without children there is no school? Does it cost so much to recognize that without families there are no children and there is no school? Therefore, the number of family representatives should also increase and be present in the third sector, this sector of the wider community, in a broader sense, because the families are underrepresented in this structure, in this organizational chart which presents the bill to us, taking into account, as I explained, their crucial importance in the educational process. Well, Article 2.4 states – I read – that it is for the Government to agree on the representation of bodies, entities and institutions in each sector on the proposal of the Council, formulated in accordance with its representativeness and based on the criteria of proportionality and plurality. It's funny that it's about the composition law of the Education Council, but it doesn't establish what its organic structure is. Let's consider, therefore, that this law remains very open, and therefore it gives little to the fact that it is the rules by which it is decreed, that is to say, with the more capacity of the Government to decide how to structure the Education Council, still politicizing us the representation of the agents of each sector, in being a unilateral decision of the Government. In short, despite the fact that the Education Council should be a totally alien body to the Education Department in order to avoid political interference, we observe that Articles 4, 5 and 7 regulate the high levels of the Presidency, Vice-President and Secretaries, are appointed for the Education Council, in clear bet for a still major policy of the organ. You know, Mr. González-Cambray, that it is not characteristic of you for your ability to circumspect, to seek consensus among the whole assembly of the educational community – we already know this – as it has been clear from the beginning of your mandate. But this announcement on February 10, together with President Aragonès, the advancement of course 22-23, in the absence of any of the four reports of the School Council that asked him to open an extensive and sessegated debate on the advancement of the course in the whole educational community before making a decision on this subject, is a bust that we do not want to repeat again. Therefore, for all these reasons, we will present the briefs when the relevant term is opened to improve this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.213.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.214.0	Thank you, President. Well, deputies, deputies, good afternoon. We find ourselves in front of a bill of law, don't we? , of the renewal of the School Council of Catalonia, which, much as it now intends to make this clean face to which we are accustomed, making only a change of name, but in absolute case, it makes a change of content or a change in the background..., simply goes from « School Council of Catalonia to « Council of Education, in the same way that the Department of Education in some legislatures has been said « Department of Education, in some others, « Department of Education, in some others has returned to become « Department of Education, but the background has been exactly the same. We can't position ourselves in favour of this whole thing, because it's a bill of law, and so, no? Because of these characteristics, it's not enough that there's any evidence, that there are comparisons, and that we can make the relevant contributions. We have not presented a statement to the whole because the vast majority of points answer to the law of education that we have in force, the law of education that established that this School Council was to renew 2018. Four years later we find ourselves with the proposal to change the renewal of this School Council, after and without the application of this law, that when we are interested in defense and when we do not, therefore, skip it for four years. We are fully in agreement and in favour of this School Council, which represents the educational community and which has integrated all the representatives of the different sectors of the educational community. Now, let's ask ourselves: why is it necessary for an organ to consult like the School Council of Catalonia, which has skills and is recognized, if it is then omitted from its contributions? The School Council of Catalonia, in the first place, was not consulted when the department, unilaterally, took the decision to change the order of the calendar and decided the progress of the school year. And the department also failed to do so when the Catalan School Board came up with the proposed revision and modification of this calendar. The School Council of Catalonia issued a report, didn't it? , in which the department urged to rethink this order of calendars, and the department seemed to consult it well when it was interested in the one that determined it and it was not well when it was not interested in the one that determined it. Therefore, we are particularly concerned about the issue of composition, not because we are against the whole educational community being represented, I repeat, but because we are missing agents and some of the agents who are included are not exactly who they are. For example, in its article 2, the composition is determined to include representation of the Administration, the educational community of the center and after the educational community more extensive, we might say. I, as much as we appreciate it, don't we? , which is incorporated, say, concrete entities like the Catalan Institute of the Dona, we find that there is a lack of representation of other collections. Why, and the minority collectivities, the vulnerable collectivities that also form part of our educational community and our centers... who is old for their interests? Where is the representation of Roma ethnic families, for example? Because this department takes many decisions in relation to this community for reasons of school absenteeism, for reasons of creating us centers in segregated barrels where the majority of the community is of gypsy ethnicity, but, however, these communities are not represented. And neither are they represented in the territorial councils. Are the vulnerable collections left in these territorial school councils? And the centres of maximum complexity that do not have strong AMPAs, AMPAs, or AFAs, and therefore are not represented at the territorial school councils? Nor does it specify, from this wider educational community – and I conclude, President – who are the entities that form part of educational institutions or social workers. Does this mean that the Bofill Foundation and all the other related entities have a head? Or what, concretely? Because it doesn't specify itself. What social entities? Which professional colleges? We want more information and that it is clear who is represented, because in the end they all have the same fish and the same vote. All can occupy a third of the total amount, up to twenty-five members. And that means you have the same Bofill Foundation as the territorial councils or the family collection. And, therefore, we want to be clear..., concrete information about who will integrate all these collections, with names and surnames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.215.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.216.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... Also a greeting to the president of the still School Council of Catalonia. Good afternoon to everyone. Today the Government presents the draft law of composition of the School Council of Catalonia, three years after the same School Council, in plenary session of October 3, 2018, approved a document in which it specifically reminded the Government of the Generality that the deadline for the LEC had expired – a LEC which, according to when, makes a case – for the establishment by law of the composition of the School Council, until they were already a year late, which, added up to later this day, as has been said..., we are talking about this bill and this new composition arriving four years late. It is obvious, therefore, that we must approve this bill as urgently as possible. And, moreover, after so many years of its initial creation, the year 1985, we think that it would be necessary to update it legally and socially at the present time, also taking advantage of all the experience accumulated in this long period of time. Thus, social changes and transformations in the educational world, in the world of education, that have occurred in these thirty-five years, must be taken into account. And we understand, therefore, that they must reflect the composition of the council, which will also be called "Education of Catalonia and, therefore, replacing the current name of "School", since it wants to be wider. It wants, therefore, to have a broader and more representative look at all the actors that today are protagonists of the policies of the education system of our country. We all know, therefore, that the Education Council of Catalonia is necessary to accompany any educational policy that is likely to last, and we celebrate the step of its transformation by expanding the representation of all sectors. But all of us also know that their opinions are just consults, they are not binding. And we have seen this clearly during this course, when, repeatedly, the council and the whole educational community have called for a moratorium on the progress of the school year in order to be able to prepare the changes well, but the Government of the Republican Left and Junts has not made any omissions, at any rate, right? , of which, for example, they have made the Valencian Generalitat or the Assembly of Barcelona to the schools of Bressol, accepting a moratorium, as was the case with the different councils of education corresponding to them, which we think that, one day as today, we approve this change of council and fill our mouth to put it in value for its representativeness..., we think that we should also say it and give it consistency, because if we have consultative and participatory bodies, as is the case, it would be good for the Government to escort them. It is true that it is not legally necessary, according to the fact that sovereignty is brought to Parliament, but it is also true that in important issues such as the change of course, where in a majority the educational community is demanding this moratorium, little favour is given to this organ, little legitimacy is given to it, and, therefore, also to all the people who participate in it – therefore, entities, unions, administrations, people who dedicate their time to making decisions, making proposals and advancing education in our country. I'd also like to make some reflections. The first, on the subject of paritat. It has already been said here that this will be taken into account, but we would also like to remind you that, of all the presidencies that have been in place at the length of all these years of school council existence, most of them have been men, and, therefore, here too it would be good to correct it. And second, in relation to the composition of the council. We think that yes, that it has to be flexible and that it has to be done incorporating many people or many collections that are not there now, as non-formal education, as the educational stage of the zero-three years, as professional training, as rural school or inclusive education, that they are a living reality and therefore we think that neither can be left out of this very important council. Therefore, our group, given the initial terms of this project, also given the opinion of the main collectivities and attentive that it has been a long time since it was in this sense, will support the processing of this bill. And, of course, we will also make our contributions and reject the challenge to the totality presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.217.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.218.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, first, let us move forward that we will give support to the message presented by the Ciutadans Group, for various reasons; three, basically. Yeah, don't get weird, but I'll give you some arguments that might surprise you for brilliant. [[relays]] , or so they're not doing too much illusion with what I'm going to say next. First question. We do not agree with the change of name, that is, when changing "School Council" to "Education Council" is not an innocent or naive change. No, no, no. It's a lot of winds, and it's very important. It is a pedagogy that is called comprehensive pedagogy, which tends to dilute the teacher's authority to the classrooms, the master, to try to socialize the income at school. It's an authentic barbarity, because in the end they come out, the students, who, in other words, don't even know where to go. But it is a pedagogy that failed in the Labour era to the Kingdom Unit, that has not been applied again or implemented instead of the world and that for some reason a little esoteric is wanting to continue applying to Catalonia and some still want to propose it for the rest of Spain, that is to liquidate the culture of effort. In the end, it's a question that's always the same: it's the master's authority, it's the culture of effort; it's destroying Catalonia's public education system, which has been on this record for a long time. The second question for which we are against is also derived from the previous one, which is the same composition: a school board, which, in fact, LOGSE has already produced some changes in the legislation of the Spanish joint, which is very negated from the moment when practically the decisions were also socialized, setting up at the same level, for example, if any measure had been applied before a student who had had some type of act that required a disciplinary regime..., was placed at the same level the authority of the teachers, the central, the parents' and the same student, who had potentially followed what had violated the internal rule order of the same school. An authentic barbarity. So you do the same thing: with this composition, that each time it increases more, each time it is more extensive, what they want, in short, is to dilute the role of the teachers and the direction of the school to convert the school not into a learning system through which the students acquire some skills, but a system of political socialization that does not serve anything at all. And the third question is the delegation of the presidency's possibility, isn't it? , which in theory should be returned to the counselor– that I see him there very much entertained with the mobile, I suppose they are asking him to resign by mobile, because they ask him every five minutes; I don't know if that's the case, but I see very much entertained and not so much to listen to what I humbly have to convey to him... Clearly, this presidency delegation can end up implying that the councillor, with a whim, ended up appointing as the president of this entity someone you see knowing whether he has a direct relationship or not with the teaching world. I mean, it's all folded up, it's an authentic barbarity. We have elements to support the project to the totality of Ciutadans. In some of them, we agree, of others, complementary, but in the end, we will give support to this goal to the totality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.219.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Ms Judit Guàrdia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.220.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, President of the School Board of Catalonia... As you know, I am the new Member of the Assembly of Junts and this is my first speech to the House, and I ask them to let me make a personal note of thanks to those people who have brought me here to Parliament, those who have made me interested in politics, those who we share so much the year of independence of Catalonia, those who have trusted me and those who cost me. [[Some applause.]] It is precisely in Parliament that public matters are debated and decisions are taken that affect citizens' day-to-day lives. And for me, who come from the world of teaching, debating this draft law of composition of the School Council of Catalonia is not one of the best examples. For what I will detail further, it is clear that we disagree with the whole thing. The council was created more than thirty years ago and our society has changed a lot from now on, and so have the legislation and the way we understand education. So the board has to adapt to these changes: society, legislation and education. The most significant changes are those of society, but in fact, they are evident in the other two spheres, as you see. For what it does to the legislation, the change in the composition of the council is done because it has to give compliments to three laws. The first, the LEC, the law of education of Catalonia, which establishes, as the councillor has said, that changes in the composition of the council must be made by law and cannot be made by decree. Secondly, the Law 26/2010, which introduced changes in the functioning of the collegiate organs, as is the case of the School Council of Catalonia, and established who should not be the members, the appointment of alternates, the functions of each class, etc. And, in the third place, we can also give compliments to the Law 17/2015, which sets the concept of equal representation. At this point the council is even, but it has to be fixed that this parity is maintained taking into account the increase of members, and it has to be in each of the sectors, that now there was a little..., it didn't have to be that way. Each of these sectors, as has been said, is the Administration, the school community and the educational community. This distinction between school community and educational community is what brings change in education. If the council is an organization of participation of the affected sectors in the non-university teaching as we now understand, including, in more than the school domain, other format and readership areas. And that's why it's necessary to open up the law until now to accommodate the entities of these new sectors of the education world that have requested their participation in the council. It is this opening that justifies the change of name from « School Board to « Board of Education of Catalonia. And it is not possible to forget the view of the professional and social collectivities, which can make enriching contributions to the deliberations and proposals for educational policies that are due at the end of the council. It is all that explains that in the new composition of the Administration I lost the majority I had; so far, if it doesn't, it was half the members, and now it's a third party. All of these changes, therefore, have been made by law or the result of proposals related to social and educational changes, girls from the experts of the different actors related to the educational sphere, as seen in the background to the bill. Listening to the views of experts has always been the way to consensus. For all intents and purposes, we will vote against the threat to the totality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.221.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, it's the turn, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, of the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.222.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors. Good afternoon, Mr. Viñas, President of the still named "School Council", and also welcome, your team, and therefore also the people who accompany us this late. The challenges we face as a country and the importance that from Republican values we give to education forces us to generate transformations necessary to put education at the centre of the debate and do so with the highest consensus, as always, and to achieve the best results for the education system. The concept of 360 education or the concept of full-time education takes the whole meaning today, with the proposal of government for the new law of composition of the Education Council of Catalonia. In this way, it compliments Catalonia's law of education, starting with the same name. He said that we have Mr. Viñas, president of the School Board – still School Board – but changing this name to "Education Board" is a significant change as it involves extending the whole school environment to a broader educational environment, adapting us to the change in our society as well. Some general considerations to this proposal that today, therefore, Councillor Cambray has exposed us all. We see how it is necessary to open up the composition of this school board to our sectors of the world of education, within and outside the school environment, in order to broaden its scope beyond purely educational centres as we understand them so as to become an education board, as the name says, both in the name and in the composition and functions. Therefore, important, the incorporation of professional, social and entity collections of the world of law. It also addresses the problem that the current School Board has an overrepresentation of educational administration, in the current composition. And, therefore, it is now necessary to redistribute the representation of the sectors to the council so that it is more balanced, to reflect the diversity and plurality of the educational community with a proportional distribution of the representation of each of the sectors. It is thus given an answer to requests for organizations to form part of it, and allows the participation of the current collections of the educational community to enrich the debates and studies. In its organization, as the Councillor explained, it will represent three sectors with a maximum of twenty-five members, and therefore it will facilitate the flexibility of the composition of this organization because it can be adapted to the reality of education, a lack that has to be satisfied, and therefore, in this case it covers through the three sectors that have already been fully explained: the educational community or the school community – we believe from the group that is important, therefore, the incorporation of the Secretary of Children, Adolescents, Youth and the Catalan Institute of Gifts to open the gaze– ; the educational community of the centre or the school community – in this context, the incorporation of the professional staff, the youth and the educational organization, together with the professional staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff and the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the administrative staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff and the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff and the staff, the staff, the staff and the staff and the staff and the staff and the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff, the staff of the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the staff, the This law also seeks to establish distribution criteria that must be objective and transparent in order to ensure the representativeness of each sector of agreement with the reality of the educational community. Important, too, as he assigns gender parity as an objective to achieve balanced composition between women and men – it has been discussed, too. We think that the voice of women in the educational community is and will be clearly represented in all spheres, and therefore with a transformative and equitable contribution and vision of the education system. There is also a layout of the board's nomination process. We believe that the figure of the alternate, the duration of the term of the members, the replacement, the appointments of the representatives resulting from electoral processes according to their representation obtained. In short, a new tool to help improve the education system and to face the reality of a country in a more democratic, more participatory, more intelligent way, thanks to the wider participation of all educational sectors. And our position respects the aim of the totality presented by the deputy Martin Blanco, therefore, will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.223.0	The debate is over, therefore, and we shall proceed to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and the delegation vote of Mr Lluís Puig will be added to the vote on the basis of the vote on the vote that designates the spokesman of his parliamentary group, in which he has the delegation. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. Totality has been rejected, with 20 votes in favour, 114 votes against. And, therefore, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposition of law of emergency principles application to the rights of persons with mental health problems and family (debate of totality)]] [[202-00007/13]] Let's move to the fifth point of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the proposition of law of principles of urgency application to the rights of people with mental health problems and family. This legislative initiative was presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. It has, therefore, in the first place the word, to expose it, the deputy Mrs Grau, for a maximum time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.224.0	[[Pause.]] What, we're all out? The monkey too? Well, let's get started. Let's make a little memory. On 10 June last year, 2021, my parliamentary group, the Ciutadans Group, registered a proposal for a law on principles of urgent application to the rights of persons with mental health problems and their families, a proposal for a law that, because of the slowness of palace things – and according to which palace even more – comes to debate today, more than a year later. During this year many things have happened, but before commenting on them, I would like to talk to you about this proposal of our law and why it was then – and still is – so important to us. It was inspired by many hours, months and years of work, but above all of concern, by our former MP Blanca Navarro, a professional psychiatrist and one of the first people in this chamber to draw attention to the emergency of mental health. It was very visionary, because it did so long before the covid drama was unleashed that so much invisible damage, not only visible, has done to us. Allow me to read again, because this is not the first time I have done so, some fragments of the explanatory statement of this bill, because, apart from being a whole statement of principles, it makes clear that this Parliament and this Government are late, very late, to take this problem seriously. We said a year ago: "The mental health of the Catalan population is in crisis. It is because science is advancing in the definition of increasingly complex and cross-cutting perspectives and solutions while the Administration is lagging behind in models that were already obsolete and were already dramatically ineffective decades ago. In 2006, the master plan for mental health and addictions defined in Catalonia a care model with a broad vision of the whole health system, incorporating the promotion and prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and social integration of the affected persons. Fifteen years later, that plan is an empty promise, aggravated by the impact of the covid. The physical pandemic is followed by a psychiatric pandemic, which is mostly eaten with the youngest population, including the suicide rate. Although a psychosocial approach to mental illness is advocated, health and social resources have not been developed at the same rate. Families have become the main pillar of care and support for people with mental health problems, often with a significant gender bias, as the caregivers are more often wives, mothers and sisters. It is necessary to assume and guarantee the existence of resources that accompany, if necessary, the entire life of people with mental health problems and their families in order to ensure effective inclusion and to eliminate inequalities. The fight against stigma is another subject. It is necessary to eradicate from language any allusion to mental illness as an insult. It is urgent to establish an interdisciplinary and cross-cutting care model that involves all departments whose resources can be instrumental in achieving full inclusion, as well as the active involvement of patients and their families in decision-making. It cannot be that in the middle of the 21st century there are still people with mental health problems subject to mechanical containment or other practices of darker times, and the lack of resources should never be an excuse. Well, so far, the motive statement. From here, he continued and follows a complete and elaborate articulated, grouped into five titles, which already a year ago advanced to ask, for example, the prioritization of a plan to prevent suicide and to put all the gears of the Administration to work with a clear and common objective in tune with patients, affected families and entities of the sector. Well, this law proposal, I insist on rescheduling, was recorded on June 10, 2021. More than a year later, on June 14, 2022, President Pere Aragonès came out to formally present the National Mental Health Pact, which announced itself from the beginnings of the legislature as a priority of this government and gave place to a monographic ple held in this chamber last December. A monographic ple that I recognize was for me, new Member, enormously instructive: I was able to prove first-hand that there were few Members who had no idea what they were talking about or had read Ciutadan's bill or any other paper on the subject that had never been put forward. It was as if every day of the world we returned from scratch, as the Mechanoscrit of the second origin of Manuel de Pedrolo – remember? It was a very full ple – worth the redundancy – of good intentions and promises. We, from Ciutadans, were going to achieve that it is given importance to the territorial and social equity of attention to mental salvation. Also, it was difficult to talk about contingencies or to make them concrete, because it seemed more important to have a national plan than to know what to do with it. We voted more enthusiastically on the continent than on the continent: first we organize a good wedding banquet and then we'll see if we find a couple of clouds that we want to marry. By the way, I'm telling you, it doesn't do much, the famous national plan of mental salvation. And the longing presentation turned out, you'll know I'm sorry, as incredulous as it is, to promise to President Aragonès himself that we were before one of the most important pacts of this legislature and of our own years. Aragones expressed the need to change the paradigm of mental health and emotional well-being, breaking stigmas and harms, and treating them with the same importance as offered to other dimensions of health and well-being. He also claimed the pact as a tool for the people affected, but also for the families and the better around, the professionals and the agents providing services, in order to stimulate the change of look and take on the great reptes of the sector, which are to identify structural problems, narrow objectives and promote solutions, to improve strategies aimed at providing full attention twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and to assist people from diversity and beyond the different stages of life, as well as to stabilize the resources to consolidate the services. The head of the Government promised that most departments of the Generality would participate in the pact. For her band, the presidential adviser, Laura Vilagrà, stressed that mental salvation is a silenced and invisible reality and an authentic national emergence that has worsened from Covid-19. Well, you can't be wrong, but neither can we congratulate you on inventing the wheel, plus a wheel that was already invented, put in writing, black on white, for the Ciutadans bill that we come here to defend, and to which the government groups have unthinkingly tabled it twice an amendment to the whole. Of course, they're still in time to withdraw it. What, are you excited? Yeah? Don't you? Yeah? Don't you? Well, are they against the same principles that, according to Pere Aragonès, inspire their national pact for mental salvation? Without acridud, have you not realized that Ciutadans's bill says the same, but better said, much more in detail and with a lot of ground has already travelled and advanced to get to work from now on, since yesterday, for a year? It's clear to them that it bothers them that, when the Generalitat goes, we'll be back. Let's face it, this isn't a gull race or a merit contest. When it comes to something as important as mental health, all efforts and consensus are few. Welcome whoever he is, he comes when he arrives, wakes up when he wakes up and even if his sheets have been glued to him. The problem is that it does not give the impression that this national pact for mental salvation will be very different from its cousins, the national pact for language, for justice or for penning the gat: slow structures, empty political housings, vertigo of resources employed in autobomb sectarianism and not in real and diligent management. Even so – still –, the proposal of law that Ciutadans insists on bringing here today, despite all the frenzy suffered to delay the, to ignore the, to try to force us to withdraw the and finally amend the whole, to see if it is as if it had never happened... I close my eyes..., and do not see me, do not see i do not see me, like the little children... Well, that we do not keep the point neither the proposal of law for snorkeling nor for bursting anything. We have been and will be on the Mental Health Study Commission of this Parliament, where we have started to parade attendees who ask us – woe – for concrete results and quick results. Why will they say so much and put the face they all put on when they say so? We are also more than willing to give our full support to whatever the facts of the national pact for mental salvation have in mind. Not so much because we rely on them, or all of them, as out of respect for the entities that have committed their participation – from the Catalan Society of Psychiatry and the Catalan Society of Child and Youth Psychiatry to the Fundació Congrés Català de Salut Mental, etcetera. It does not seem that these collectives deserve anything other than to expect us to make the greatest effort of integration and to tie our shoulders, to put the best of us to see if this starts at once. That is why we do not understand that time and energy have been spent trying to erase from the map this proposal of law of Ciutadans, made with rigor, with affection and of maximum good faith. And, if the national pact was adopted as a road map, it was responsible for the mental salvation or the name they like best, it would probably allow us to buy a lot of time and optimize a lot of efforts, because many conclusions that need to be reached are already here. We have them ready and we have them at hand, with a criterion of total demand, cleanliness and transparency, that no one has ever caught us with the ice cream cart or spending millions of euros on ghost masks. We're about to do things right, accounting in time and form, in case someone deviates, goes wrong or simply goes wrong – what's going on, huh? What is most troubling us, sincerely? This eagerness to wrap everything up in national pacts whose fulfillment is then doubtful. Its effective control is very difficult, not to say that it is almost impossible. Please do not understand these words of mine as a block disqualification of each and every authority and person involved in this effort. We know that everywhere there are beings of light and, by the way, I would like to break a spear by Magda Casamitjana..., responsible for the national pact, which is actually making an important effort to count with us and to keep us « informed, therefore, of their intentions. But, just as there are beings of light, there are dark sides, very dark sides of strength, in all that has been and is the sanitary management of the Generalitat. In other words, I'm counting on Ciutadans, who really care about the mental salvation of Catalans and want to go to work. Don't ask us to forget that we had to write and present this bill for this Parliament to start talking seriously about this issue. If you deviate the least from the straight path or simply your path remains in nothing, we will re-strike this law and what you voted on this law by the nose, because with us you do not play, and with the health and money for the health of the people, neither. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.225.0	Next, in order to defend the speech to the totality presented jointly for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mrs Titon Laïlla, of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.226.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, to be of the light of this Parliament and of the sanity of our country... Mrs Grau, I do not think that I am either frivolising or making populism on such an important issue as mental salvation, which, moreover, there is consensus not only here in Parliament, but also in the Government, on putting this issue as a priority. Because with you there was no beginning of mental salvation; neither problems nor mental salvation. There's a lot of work done before with people who have left their hair; with civil association, with couples, with seas, what you explained, in all areas; with organised civil society, with people in the first person who have come to the fore now to add to all those policies, those decisions, those things that are so urgent that you say back your proposal for law, in fact, to face who are the problems of mental safety in this legislature. Because, in fact, I think there's a broad consensus that it's the legislature of mental salvation, and it's for different reasons. Here in Parliament it was made a monographic ple precisely at the end of the previous session period, the dismemberment of the past year, in which it was prioritized this theme in this Parliament. We also have a study commission on mental health and addictions, which, if I may say so..., in order to be able to work with mental health and hold a study commission..., we must also come to this committee in order to be able to make important contributions to it. [[Some applause.]] A committee of study that I want to remind you that it works from a work plan that we have done by consensus, that we have worked all the Members that we were in that committee together with the specialists who are part of this committee, precisely as speakers who participate in all the areas that we want to deal with, that you know as well as I do that they are new areas: suicides, misconduct, continuity of care, old age, health care, justice, child labour, addictions, stigma – obviously, we cannot stop talking about it – etc. Therefore, it is a committee of study that I believe has three major long-term objectives, which are, for a band, to know what we have and who we need to have people and families who suffer from a mental disorder, who are the rights that can be violated precisely because we are not giving a good response or the appropriate response to those needs that they have, that they detect and that are emerging, but also to be able to get to realist actions so that they can land all those policies, all those actions that are taking place from many areas, also from organised civil society, to give response to people and families with a mental health problem. And to do so..., the will is to do so precisely by fleeing paternalism and with the humility of being and recognizing that we are not in the best situation at the time of caring for people with a mental health problem. And I think that's what we've said in this Parliament, in this chamber, various times, and in other forums where we've talked about mental disorders and addictions. Attention to mental health has also been specifically prioritized by the Government. And, in fact, the integral care plan for people with mental disorders and addictions has been restored. The table was created, just three weeks ago, the table of the National Mental Health Pact. And, from the health perspective, the counselor in these last few months has made different announcements, precisely, of concrete actions on suicide; for example, from the Table of Attention to Mental Health, from 061 Salut Respon, or, it does all just a couple of days, also to attend to acute crises in children's cases, right? Among other things. So, it's a theme that's on the table. I think we can share a lot of things, which is what puts us in the world of mental salvation. We can give a holistic view, make an integral treatment, that we can change the perspective; that we start from the potentialities that people who suffer from a mental disorder, and not from their disabilities or their differences. We can give continuity of attention to the length of life, from childhood to adulthood, but also to the old age, which we sometimes do not forget, as we treat loneliness to the old age, and we also ask the great people, those who also have dementias or mental disorders, as they want to be cities. Let us give it a Community approach, not only with Community resources, but also by taking advantage of those experiences that already exist, which many are fronts for associations in the third sector. We want professional formats, formats in mental health, and also the professionals we need. We are all aware that it is important to fight against stigma. We can't take any steps back, because the responsibility is everyone's and it's hard. We have to face the emotional suffering of these disorders that can cause at some point in attempted autolysis or suicides consumed. We also have to address this issue, the inequality of gender from the perspective of mental salvation. We need to talk about job inclusion, from occupational centres, going through special work centres, also going through assisted work... But we also need to be able to talk, for example, about retirements, a theme that is often forgotten when we talk about the employment inclusion of mentally disturbed people. The role of choice. I don't think I thought I'd believe it, because it's an important evidence. The Justice, with those people deprived of liberty accompanying them who suffer a mental disorder? Addictions, not only to substance and drugs, but also to the game, to the bets, to the pants..., these new additions, etc. Only four data to frame the subject and the importance that everyone here, consensually, has decided that this must be so. According to the WHO, there are about 1,000_million people who suffer from a mental disorder, there are 3_million people who die annually for alcohol consumption, and one person kills himself every forty_seconds. They're talkative data that we also have from here, from Catalonia, from the government, from the parliament, we have to be able to deal with. And remember – I've said it before – that one of the four people in the length of his life can suffer or will suffer a mental disorder, which means that thirty-four of the 135 Members of this House can suffer or suffer a mental disorder. They're important data. On this proposal of the Law – I return to the Inician – from this will of consensus to which I referred when I am referring, and we have thus worked that the mental salvation we have to face from this perspective, not only consented, but directly linked, incardinated to the will and knowledge of the specialists and of the people who speak, precisely, in the first person and of their families..., from this will, I believe that this proposal of the Law can help the work that we have to do to the Commission, if it is true that we do not have to deal with it as proposed by the Law – and from here the motivation of this is to the totality – among other things, in respect of the person who is fully involved in this task. So, I'm already telling you to step back – and I think I can speak on behalf of everyone –..., we can gather all those proposals that arise in this bill and incorporate them into the debate and the work that we will do in this committee. Without further ado, tell him that we keep the emena to the totality, and that, therefore, we will not support his purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.227.0	Thank you very much. And, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Alba Vergés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.228.0	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you, President. Counselor... Mrs. Grau, that is to say, I think today is what we have never been, as at least now, more likely to have a debate to be, a debate built on a topic that I believe we are closing in on in this Parliament a broad consensus. And Congresswoman Titon Laïlla said that in this last intervention. Our goal to the totality, despite being defending it here, puts us right at this proposition of law that you presented, despite all, despite the flowers, despite this game of hands that makes you go on some occasions when you say certainly words. So, what I want to say is this. We defend the message to the whole in this law precisely because we defend the consent of this Parliament, we defend the consensus in the Government, we defend the consensus in the country, and some hope that we are not competing over who is more visionary, but those visions, that work for so many years that all entities work, we can work, and without taking away the task of this Parliament, that, certainly, we can say..., one of the tasks is to do you, but other tasks are to give this impulse, to close these consensuses, to generate debates, to give the voice of people, to give the message to the entities, as precisely, in this way, as other tasks are to be done that we have created in Parliament, to generate debates, to give the voice of people, to give the voice of the experts, to say, to say the right, to do so that we have created these consensuses in Parliament, and to ask the people in general, to do so that we can actually, as a group, to do this, to do this, and to do so that we can help the people in this Parliament, and to do this group, and to do this group, to do this, and to do so that we can do so that we can do so that we can actually, to do this group, and to do this, and to do this, and to do this group, to do this, and to do this, and to do this. Because, by the way, mental salvation is not a fact of those people who suffer it, of those people who live with a mental disorder and of their families, who are the main caregivers, but a fact of the whole society. It's a social fact, it's an approach that we have to do with all the cross-cutting we need. And this is what the President of the Generality of Catalonia did, when in his first act as President of the Generality..., his first visit to the Tauli Park of Sabadell was, precisely, the service of attention to infant and youth mental health. And it's not like I've been doing it with a child giving this stuff that's our future and that's our priority, that's working for the mental health of our children and young people in our country. Therefore, this priority, marked by the President of the Government of Catalonia, marked by the Parliament with the monographic plethora, marked by the Parliament with the study commission, we cannot sweep it with a proposed law, according to you, with a visionary vision – more well-known – of a Member of the last legislature. The past legislature was already a priority, mental salvation; not only from Salvation, but also from other areas was already a priority. Presupposed increases, that even come from the previous legislature, that were remembered, that we are, above all, strengthening. Presuppostarial increases that are to be translated, effectively, into resources, into more servants, into professionals, from the point of view of salvation. But, above all, the one who emphasizes us and the one who observes us, and the one we have dealt with in the monographic plethora, and the one we have heard here in you..., in the first person, with these cross-cutting inter-departmental policies that involve us all the Government, which means greeting all the policies..., means that all those policies that are for the welfare of the people are also for the better mental salvation of the people, all those policies for our young man are also for the mental salvation of our young man, all those policies against or towards and the struggle against the people are also for a better mental salvation of our people. For all those policies of accompanying people in the social sphere... it is also the emotional well-being and mental salvation of our people. Beyond salvation, working on this transversality. And yes, June 14th is approved the pact, the table of the national pact, huh? – national–, because you can hear me, of mental salvation and addictions. And yes, this pact is absolutely relevant. And this pact responds to the will with the consent of being able to respond to the needs of the people, this epidemic of mental salvation that is not only the result of the epidemic of the covid we have been living, but that we have lived it before. And, therefore, I would also claim that in all the initiatives that we can bring in this Parliament to give better emotional and mental health to our people, and also to the young people, therefore, you also gave them support, as was the motion of aesthetic pressure presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left in this Parliament, which also involves a better mental health for our people. In short, this Parliament, the Government of Catalonia, and also the country, are bulging in the legislature, as Titon said, in the legislature of mental salvation, with an emotional well-being and mental salvation as a priority, which must be a priority even more intense. And we must also make it clear that our priority as a country is people: people who live with a problem of mental health; people who live with these people who live, live with mental disorder; people who are painted, with all the social inequalities of our country, emotional pains that can end up in mental disorder. And we could say infinite numbers. And the answer is not medicalization. The answer is this consensus, the answer is this cross-cutting work that we are doing. And that's why this whole thing responds to this. And I can tell you that we are very much in agreement with many of the points that you have in the law, because it is an identification of the most significant problems that exist in this field and that we associate with mental health. But obviously, this law will not be the answer to everything, but it is working for this consensus, and I would appreciate it if the interventions were also on the line, right? , to share this also emotional greeting, and, in any case, before, with a smile that does not with smiles sneezing, that many times you have done. Because we have the right, like people, to be able to express when there is discomfort and no one gets angry about it; to be able to express emotions and to be given value to emotions in our lives. Everyone has the right to be happy, to live with dignity, to live with fullness, and this is our obligation as Parliament to be able to work. And from the Republican Left, think'more than us, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, way, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, far, Therefore, I would not like to enlarge, but to explain to her that this national pact of mental salvation and the additions that have been made – and that I am glad that it puts in value, therefore, the Magda Casamitjana as the leader of this pact, that I believe it can be a great driver of this cross-cutting work – marks a country strategy, a national strategy, inter-departmental, inter-sectional, aligned with the World Health Organization; driving, ordering, managing, implementing a model that must be integral for what it does to people, integrated for what it does to resources, and where mental health and emotional well-being in all policies and for all citizens make it possible to respond to needs, giving those people emphasis to their abilities and their abilities. All this in a community_mark – where do we have to work if not in our community? It does not work in the health system only in the centres of mental health of adults, children, in the services of recovery, rehabilitation; it is not only dealt with, from this point of view, but it is dealt with at work, at school, also here in Parliament and also with the attitudes they touch. What makes this whole life difficult for us? So about these conditions is about what we have to work on: the social inequalities of the first order, the gender bias, also – there is also gender bias in mental health. Working with a view to the recovery of people, to social inclusion, work, education, to reduce these inequalities, to work also interculturality, that there are also some Members of this House who do not like and do not understand it; interculturality, which forms part of our diversity and our richness as a country. This is our field of action, here they will find us. They won't find us, in this law; they'll find us all working for the mental salvation of all the people who live in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.229.0	So, after the defense of the object to the totality, then, for a turn against, has the word Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.230.0	Thank you, President. Well, very briefly. To Mrs. Laïlla: we are very aware that the problems did not begin with us, just as we are very aware that the consensus did not begin with you. We want to help, we can help, but for us the key to this effort is two things: time and money. Clearly, I mean, here it is said: "This is the legislature of mental salvation. Well, it was also said that it was the legislature of independence or the legislature of the republic and then what happens, right? "Everyone has the right to be happy. Well, you didn't make them independent either. I would like to make a point on this subject of the national pacts. God, you see, so much insistence with country strategies... God, you see, I had understood that the problem of mental salvation was global; in fact, it was an almost planetary threat. If we plant that Catalonia has a singularity in mental salvation, we might have to attribute it to some political brands. It's better we don't keep going around here than we're going to get hurt. Finally, that setting priorities, making great announcements, asking the experts about what experts have already told us many times, is still a way of wasting time and money. And let's say that one of the reasons – and that goes for Mrs Alba Vergés – for which we have insisted on keeping the law's proposal alive is because, go – I will say it with all the "caring possible" – there are health management precedents in this government that do not inspire trust – that do not inspire trust. Clearly, if there is an execution here, you say: "Ole, what good is everything, what good is everything control, what good is controls... So yes, so much so! Look, just sign it without looking at what's in front of you. It has not been the case: for a long time things have been handled, from our point of view, very poorly, with very rich announcements and many beautiful words, but later, the warmest to the water. And we think this time, so... we want to be, but vigilant, with an open eye. Time for the money. It's been a year. Legislature isn't eternal. It's been a year since we could already be working on this and not announcing, calling tables, months, commissions; it's been a year since work could already be on the march. That said, so-so, let's put the collar in it and that the people in the light do more than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.231.0	All right. So after defending the Emena to the totality and turning it against the defence of the Emena to the totality, let's move on to the rest of the interventions of the parliamentary groups to express their position. I, now, have the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.232.0	Thank you, President. I'm sorry for the rush, but... Look, Mrs Grau, as a general rule, we don't get used to supporting totality reviews, but in this case we will do it, and we will do it for two reasons: one, because I think that Mrs Laïlla expressed it very well when she said "we don't frivolize; above all, we don't frivolize with a topic where we can all talk, address... And we did a very important thing that I think we said in that plenary and in the discussion, didn't we? A phrase that said: "We went from silence to debate. Let's move from debate to action and do it all together. And I believe that this led us to five parliamentary groups presenting a joint motion for a resolution in that plenary; all together in that plenary that was done in the month of December, as you said. And we gave this joint proposal a letter of nature to both the Mental Health Study Commission and the National Pact for Mental Health. To me, the pact for mental health is just like the adjective I'm wearing, what I'm looking for is an agreement between entities, associations, the ills, their families, all parliamentary groups and society. I want, before anything else, to thank here and now the pocket of the entities, of the associations, of the patients, of their families; also the pocket of all the professionals who work there. And let me say this: the pocket also of the deputy Blanca Navarro, who made very important contributions to this plenary, speaking of mental salvation, in the previous legislature. But I never felt them a little bit frivolous – never –; I always recognized her as a great professional. [[Greetings.]] There's another reason why we won't support this whole thing, and that's what we believe... at least the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress aren't very much in favour of specific laws on the service portfolio. We believe that this country – and I'm talking about Spain and I'm talking about Catalonia – has some general laws on sanitation, which you set out in Article 2, for example, when you talk about access to quality health care, you are guaranteed, as you do, in this law and in these laws. And therefore, regulating the portfolio of services for the law does not seem to us to be the most up-to-date, we are not supporters of these specific laws. I do have to tell him we're critical of a lot of things, obviously. And as they say, I also believe that the Members who preceded me must gather a lot of things to keep working. Miri, we're conscious. The other day, in the study committee, I think it was Dr. Lago who said to us: "No, it's that the WHO before said that one of the four people will have an affect of mental salvation, and now we say that one of the three people will have an affect of mental salvation, and that possibly the loss of life expectancy of the people, in mental salvation, will grow over these twenty years that we gave before. The effects of the pandemic, the increase in inequalities, the impact of confinement, but now also the social and economic crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine and a scene of a truly uncertain future. Otherwise, why are people as vulnerable as infants, young people, women, and people as vulnerable, the most affected by these manifestations of mental health and these disorders? We are concerned, and very concerned, about the increase in behavior disorders, but above all that each time they are in the earliest age. We're worried about all the tempts and suicides we've had. And, moreover, we are aware that there has not always been an adequate response, and I say this, that I have been quite a drill on health issues, in this plenary and in the Health Committee. There has not always been the right answer. President Aragonès said in the extraordinary plenary: "We have the instruments. But we also recognized all the instruments and resources of mental salvation that support the crisis of our system of salvation, with no professionals, no economic resources. And, besides, I think it's good that we all recognize it: in many years, therefore, the poor German of the system has been. But it is true that there have been, there are efforts being made, which does not mean that we have ended the endless lists of waits and the non-absorbable space of time between visits and for lack of proper follow-up – we said it the other day also in the committee. But it's also true. It is true, for example, that the Mercè Torrentallé said to us in that plenary: "We are men and women with rights, with mental disorders, with vision, concerns, with needs and gains that they escort us, to break walls and overcome stigmas, not to close down or toss themselves or feel marginalized. And this is our obligation: to respond actively to these things that we say. We have the Mental Health Study Commission. And, listen, we may be more in favour or against, but the committee has done a job plan, the committee has set out to walk, we are all: entities, associations, suppliers, and we are also all parliamentary groups. We've heard many appearances. Not one of them... they've got our attention, careful, with the questions. And I have to tell him that the other day we talked about it with Mrs Vergés: it is a very interesting model of committee, because, when you hear the voices of specialists, technicians, wondering also between them, it enriches the debate a lot. And it's true, the table, the table of the National Mental Health Pact, has been created, and we share, because they're also at your law, the objectives of the table, right? , of an impulse and leadership role, of an integral approach, of aligning public policies, of talking about reducing inequalities, of fighting against stigma. If that is what we have approved of the motions for resolutions. If this is also collected in your law. But if we've set out to walk this, Mrs. Grau, is it worth opening up a piece of law to re-treat the same thing? Why, for a moment, do we reflect: who would we bring to compare in this poenance? The members of the study committee, who have already begun. Who would bring more to compare? All those appearances that we have approved in the work plan and that are the ones that we will throw forward during this. I'm telling you and I know it's hard, but I'll pick up, my group will pick up the whole thing, because we think it's a moment... I don't know how I'd say... that I don't lose any effort and, therefore, concentrate my efforts and effort on the study committee, on the National Pact Table. Because, look, I read my law, your bill, and they're also great definitions. And I don't want any more objective definitions. I want to define strategies, work and concrete proposals; resources – above all resources – and move forward, the parliamentary groups, the entities, and bring the Government..., the groups that they support, too, with the Government. And I urge you to bring the government to an unequivocal political will to support mental salvation. This is our obligation, like groups that oppose this plenary, as a political impulse to the government. We recognize, among all, a growing reality that has been obliterated, and much, by administrations, and silenced by society. So, as I said, we will vote in favour of the threat to the whole, and from here on, we will call on them to face the challenges of mental health together with all those who work there. And I just want to end – and I've done thanking the professionals – with a thank you to all those public people, public people who have done public too. I think his visibility may not end with stigma, but at least silence ends. All of them, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.233.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.234.0	Thank you, Madam President. "In short, everything points out that we are going to be left without the necessary health care in Catalonia, without a comprehensive mental health shock plan and with a totally wrong political road map that only seeks to deepen the mistakes of its crazy government and previous governments. That's right, they'll be shielded in big slogans and empty statements as they abandon so many Catalans who suffer and whose lives are in danger. This concludes, eight months ago, the monographic plenary of mental health and, unfortunately, could continue to end this way, because nothing has changed. Today we have a new proposal for mental health; a new proposal that only has the registration number again. A recurring request to the Government by most of the parliamentary groups present in this chamber, but above all an imperative demand from all citizens. We have been able to see how the government group, in its usual line of hypocrisy and its desire for autobomb, has asked several questions to the Health Advisor about the mental health plan, to give him the opportunity to explain the honeys of the course that this plan is going through. All whores, counselor – he's gone. If you were to stick to reality, we would see nothing but the frosts in the evolution of the mental health plan. You know that you are not investing in the mental health of Catalans. You are well aware that the only thing that has been advanced is the appointment of countless senior officials, with their high salaries, to lead and execute an unworkable plan for lack of resources. Mental health is not a new problem in Catalonia, what we have seen during the pandemic is only the tip of the iceberg. Years of lack of investment in health care and systematic ill-treatment of professionals have made them sick. And now we have a serious problem, especially in the young population. Does the Government plan to stand by while increasing the number of suicides and addictions in our children? Much has been said about the need to increase the health measures necessary to alleviate and mitigate the effects of the deterioration of mental health in Catalan society, but this problem has been developing and encouraging for you for years; you have silenced the social causes and the prevention of these pathologies. And now, which is a publicly recognized problem, which is on the table, they still do not take the necessary steps to address it. No, it's not a problem right now, gentlemen of the government, but it was in your hands to fix it and bridge the psychiatric patients and the professionals involved in their care. They have not done so, they perpetuate their mismanagement, their inability to govern, their lack of attention to the population that needs it, their negligence and their neglect to identify problems and solve them. They invest in hatred, they subsidize those who fuel the confrontation between Catalans, among Spaniards, even knowing that social cohesion is an important part of emotional stability; they have fuelled confrontation and social discord, and have contributed to the discomfort of our society. And, therefore, they are part of the structural causes of mental health deterioration in our region. They attack the family and deprive it of help, leave it vulnerable and prefer it unstructured, because this makes it easier for them to manipulate the individual, and even though they know how fundamental it results for a psychiatric patient as a structure of refuge, protection and recovery. The precariousness of the family breaks with bonds – emotional and emotional bonds – necessary to avoid social fall in problems related to emotional distress and mental illness, such as certain types of addictions or social behaviors. Still, you invest less than one per cent of the Social Rights budget. They do not bet on the labor integration of these patients, even though they have in their hand the key that opens up social integration, their capacity for autonomy and the elimination of stigmas. The inability to resume work increases the levels of stress, anxiety and depression. And it's that the unemployment rate in people with mental disorders is about sixty per cent. We are concerned, and very much concerned; we cannot say the same about you. Its strategy has been based on obviating the causes and trying to mitigate the consequences and above all on doing wrong. You are irresponsible people who play with the lives of citizens. And worst of all, they keep talking about lack of resources when the government has burned and continues to burn public resources into superfluous things. Even Mr Argimon has acknowledged that he needs more budget in health care. They do not invest enough and what they invest do not do well: they continue to focus on their policies without social or health revenues while the Catalans have the longest medical waiting lists in Spain, while our children suffer the consequences of their ineptitude and cannot even be valued by a psychologist or diagnosed by a psychiatrist when their lives hang on; young people with depression, anorexia, personality disorders, who end up being derived from emergencies without the prospect of continuing with a follow-up; infant-youth mental health centers collapsed; day centres for mental patients with waiting lists of years and non-existent re-education centers; older people suffering from pathologies secondary to loneliness without even being able to be valued by head doctors, serious psychiatric patients who do not have hospital beds and thousands of Catalans with addictions that fall over and over again because they lack a specialist to help them. The truth is that they cannot be the solution to the deterioration of mental health in Catalonia because they are part of the problem. Its promotion and promotion of hedonistic society, faced with and without family ties, is incompatible with the design of comprehensive public policies that attack the root of the health problem. They are part of the problem and, judging by the political compass, we have no hope that at any time they will become unfortunately the solution. With regard to the amendment as a whole, we shall abstain. It's a very generic law, which you can hardly say no to. However, they introduce two concepts that involve a frontal attack on the health branch and, in particular, on doctors. When they talk about mechanical restraint, they point to professionals as the creators of a deliberate act of torture that they perform randomly. They're wrong. You, lords of Citizens, are not who to judge medical acts. That's what the scientific community is for. Containment is necessary in many cases and is carried out with a clear and specific medical criterion. The second is the issue of agreeing treatments with patients and family members. Do not delegitimize the medical career or psychiatry specialty. They intend to eliminate the endorsement of the knowledge of a professional with years of study behind his back and professional experience, that experience that supports any medical decision, lords of Citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.235.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word the deputy lady Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.236.0	Thank you, President. Well, we share the concern not only of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, but of all the groups that preceded me towards the situation of mental salvation that our people suffer. She remembered – I don't know if she was the deputy Titon Laïlla or the deputy Alba Vergés – that one_of_each_three people would suffer or suffer from a problem of mental health at the length of their life. Or if Congresswoman Escarp said so; I don't remember it now. But this is an alarming figure, which is certainly exhilarating and which cannot surprise us, because, sadly, at the beginning of this century, in its 2002 annual report, the WHO specifically warned that migrations, the poor, the poor, the poor, the poor, the lack of family support, demography, loneliness, the progress of substance abuse has been increasing every month, and the emergence of social networks in people's daily lives, all of which would lead to aspects that would contribute to an increase in mental disorders in the coming decades. And so it has been. The question here is that in this equation, in this fatal cocktail, they didn't count on the pandemic. That's to say, if the future that was coming to us was already complicated, if, moreover, we added, in this equation, the impact of the covid, so we have the result that we have at the conjunction of the Catalan Countries and come back. Actually, here at the principality, so, we have different data. In Catalonia, 2020 saw an increase of 127_per_cent in anxiety disorders and thirty-three_per_cent in depression cases and other mental disorders; effects that were much more evident, as all of you know, especially between the adolescent and the young population. A study by the General Health Department also showed that 2020 had tripled the number of people who felt bad about themselves. And if we go to international studies on the impact of the pandemic on mental health, then they show that from year 2019 to 2020 more than half the population has suffered some problem, and most of all who suffer the most are women. And, for the young man, from four to fourteen years he also saw that mental health had tripled. Therefore, this impact of the covid has been evident all along. The question is that, unfortunately, here in our home, the policies of mental salvation, therefore, have always been a pending assignment and have been characterized because they are under-staffed, because they are deployed in a partial or winged way and because they do not attack the difficult stigmatization problem. In this sense, it seemed that with the brutal impact of the pandemic, the fact that mental salvation has jumped to the center of the political and media agenda could be able to resolve existing shortcomings with a certain speed. It always seemed like we could start working on a paradigm shift. At the beginning of the legislature, certainly, everyone was talking about mental salvation and we keep talking about it. The reality, from our point of view, is that very little progress is being made – that very little progress is being made – and slowly, taking into account the gravity of the problem that we are dealing with. Therefore, we share with the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans the concern for the situation of mental salvation of the population; we share the criticism of the current and current shortcomings; we share the alert on stigma; we share the alert to the role of family members, who are converted..., who have the obligation to become caregivers, especially caregivers, and we also agree that it is a community approach and address mental salvation and the addictions of a cross-cutting and multi-disciplinary vision. Even so, we don't think you've felt that we approve of this bill or that we're taking it forward, considering that there is a study commission, as the previous Members have already expressed, to which many of us have given support, so much in deference to all the entities that are participating in it as being of their own consistency, because on the part of their bill's proposal that we can more agree is the one that speaks of rights as much of people who suffer mental disorders as of their family members. And we think that we need to build it precisely with these experts and those experts who participate in the study committee. By deference and by respect for these people, why, if not, what are they doing there? And, on the other hand, the rest of the content of this proposal, so we don't share it. And it is true, therefore, that we could make statements, but it is that we would certainly make a statement to the totality, in any case. Why? So because we think that the solution in no case is to make a law in the form of a piece, but here we have a structural problem with our health model – we have said it many times – because it is hospital-centric, because it lacks community and preventive public health policies, because it is designed to facilitate the negotiation at the cost of the people's salvation or, what is more perverse, at the cost of the people's malalty, from this perverse public-private concertation and based on exploiting the workers, and because, more than that, it is needed that they are not properly covered by the public network. It is the case of mental salvation, but we could talk about other cases, such as, for example, ophthalmology, dentistry, etc., which seems to be luxury goods or luxury services, better said. That's why we've been fighting for many years, not just defending institutions, but fighting on the street to structurally change the model of salvation we have from the Catalan countries. We want a public ownership model, managed and supplied, a public cent_per_cent model, therefore, universal and free. And in the concrete case of mental salvation, we understand that we need to overcome the fragmentation in more than sixty providers that are currently there; that there are no common objectives and we think that there is no control over public money that these providers are managing, or that it is a minimal control on the part of CatSalut. And, moreover, we think that we should move forward with a Community model that integrates the territory and puts the focus on deinstitutionalizing patients. This is a first part in which, moreover, we would logically add to the defence of the working conditions of this healthcare staff, as we have already brought here in previous plenary sessions. Let's remember that if we talk about mental health and health care staff, half the health care staff is at risk of mental distress, which is hard, very hard. I, therefore, would be a first part of criticism of this proposal. We don't understand that the solution was through a piece of law, but a structural change. But then there is a _second aside, which is that if we want to address the severe problem of mental salvation that afflicts the people, it must be done what was explained by Congresswoman Alba Vergés, which is the salvation of all policies. And that's what we agree on. But to spread the salvation of all policies, in short, means to take into account, therefore, that 25.9_percent of the population is at risk of poverty, according to the Idescat; also, according to the Idescat, the forty-five_per_cent of the population has problems to arrive at the end of the month; the thirty-three_per_cent cannot attend unforeseen expenses; the 35.7_per_percent of the population less than seven years is at risk of poverty or social exclusion and, according to a report from the Workers Commissions, 466,000 people are in a situation of severe material deprivation, and the eleven_per_cent of the workers are poor. And, therefore, if we want to face this situation which, moreover, in the Commission of Study on Mental Health, is continually talking about the social determinants of health as triggers of disruptions, therefore, of mental health or even of the quality of life of these people who suffer from mental distress, that is to address this situation of poor without any adjective; poor energy, poor pharmaceuticals, no, poor. The impoverishment of the working class must be clearly addressed. And this means betting to guarantee public services of quality and strength; it means redistributing wealth and betting, among others, for a universal basic income; it means dignified working conditions of the working class joint, and it means betting for housing policies. « Pa, stairway and work, which we usually give. And to do that, we need resources, that's right. And we'll report one and a thousand times that we're a tax officer: yes, that's true, that's right. But we have enough resources, too, that they can manage and that they can manage better. And if we're talking about sanitation, which can be managed a lot better, facing us once and for all in this trend, in this dynamic of continuing to be a nurse and feeding the friends of IBEX 35, which is more like defending the apparatus of the Spanish State than oppressing us. Therefore, resources, we need more, but manage better what we have; compromise with the defense of the interests of the majority of the population and, therefore, determine and set priorities; and courage. I'm done. Why do we give courage? So, if we're talking about improving the living conditions of most of the population, we need courage to face up to a demophobic Spanish state that is systematically falling into social laws that could benefit us, that could benefit the population as a whole, but fall into them. Today the Bureau decided to defend the rights of Deputy Puig. Perfect, fantastic, that's what we have to do. But this chamber must also defend its sovereignty in order to defend the interests of the majority of the working class when the Constitutional Court falls on us social laws that are consensual for the country's conjunct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.237.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.238.0	Thank you, President. From Comú Pode, from our group, from a first moment we said, we also wanted to say and think now that this must be the legislature of mental salvation. In fact, one of the first initiatives we recorded, if it wasn't the first, was about the need to make a specific ple on mental salvation, which we finally wanted to make. We also have the study committee, which I think is a very good initiative that, moreover, counts on the participation of experts and experts, who are the majority of entities working on mental health in our home. And we also have the national pact on mental salvation, which also conveys our will to be there as parliamentary groups. There is not now the Councillor of Salut, who told me that he had a meeting with the unions, but in any case, there is the Bureau of the Commission, but also the predisposition to be there. I therefore believe that we are doing – as at least from the point of view of visibility and, therefore, also trying to break the stigma – the part that we share with parliamentary groups, right? And we say it was to be the legislature, it is to be the legislature of mental salvation, because I think we are all very conscious – we have also talked about it at different times in this Parliament – about the data we have on the table, right? I am thinking in particular, for example, of the suicide rate, suicide tempts, especially young people, and not just young people. But, I mean, today we all know that suicide is the first cause of natural death in Catalonia and the second cause of death among young people. The disruptions of food behavior with the covid – we already had worrying figures before and it has increased even more – that affect especially, as in the case of suicide, women; I think it is also an approach that we have to deal with present and, therefore, also..., no? And we also have data on how addictions – for example, gambling – have spread, which I think is also one of the fundamental challenges we have. So, I think it's fundamental that we look at this job. And I think – and I don't think..., he won't be angry if I tell him – that the law is a good idea, but that it's poorly solved – I say it so clearly. I believe that we need a law of mental salvation in Catalonia and that, moreover, we urgently need it. Because it's true, we have the committee, we did make the Ple specific, but the emergency situation that we live in, and that the covid probably taught only the tip of the iceberg..., I think we need a mental health law. I believe that what you have presented is not a law – I honestly say so. If you do serve words that you do sometimes, try to talk a lot of colloquially screwing the rat, I think the law is a bodrio – I say it with all respect. I think, in addition, it's more of a PR than a law – I say it too –; I say it in the content. Now, we were doing the debate with the parliamentary group as good-willed – and I hope you understand very well. We won't support the whole thing. But, I'm already saying, if this law... it won't prosper, and I fully understand that it doesn't prosper, because I'm already saying that this isn't a law and that it doesn't hang in there. We'd have to move her up and down. Or so, all the articles and all the titles that you attach to the law, we'd have to change them from top to bottom. And it's true that someone has the feeling, or they can have it, right? At least I have the feeling that a law was meant to be made that, beyond the holder, there is nothing – and I am also saying it with frankness. I mean, I think the law, much more than you can say, and you can do a parliamentary pyrotechnic intervention like you used to, the law doesn't hang around. And I'm already saying, if the law thrives, or continues, the amount of items that we would make it from our parliamentary group... it's that we would change it from up to down. I believe that there are, at least, five elements that we must place in mental salvation. The first one I've talked about: it's visibility and stigma treatment; I think it's fun. I believe, moreover... well, surely, humbly, but I believe that the task of the committee of study, of the Committee of Health, of the work that we are doing in Parliament, I believe that we can say in this legislature that at least the Parliament of Catalonia is talking about mental salvation. I will not go in and judge the priorities that each of the Members has, nor theirs, will I? There is one element I find missing, for example, in his proposal of law, which is the social conditions that affect mental salvation. Because we talked before the game addictions; look, there's a fundamental thing, for example, to try to reduce the game addictions to Catalonia: that we are now building the largest casino in Europe at Camp Tarragona, a thousand dark buttocks. Are you in favor of Hard Rock? Yes or no? I'd say so. So, it's a little... isn't it? I mean, it's a little... say, build the biggest casino in the game at Camp Tarragona, the biggest casino in Europe, but yes, we're very worried about the game additions. Okay. Social conditions – such as access to housing to which reference is made now, if you have a job, you do not have a job – are fundamental to the effects of mental salvation. All the experts say this; it can be said by Mrs Grau, who also regularly participates in the study commissions on mental health. There's a third element, which is prevention. And here, look, we've made a proposal, and the councilman knows more. In fact, the other day, I, from the Health Commission – it was not very successful, but we would try to do it again – we made a visit to the Konsulta'm, which is free psychological attention and without a previous appointment, which first set out to Barcelona for the people between twelve and twenty-two years, who have now also been in adulthood, and which, moreover, is working, I would say, spectacularly, because, more than that, the north-seventh percent of the cases of people who have emotional distress and who go to Konsulta'm do not end up in CSMIJ and CSMA. The CSMIJ and the CSMA, which we sometimes speak with acronyms, is the centre of mental health for infants and young people and adults. It is not surprising that a law of mental health in Catalonia does not mention either the two main instruments of public health in Catalonia at these times, that they are the centres of mental health of children and young people, and in this case also of adults, to the law, when I believe that we need to discuss basically how they work, because here we have radically one part of the problem, which is that we trigo a lot of time in having the first visit, already in the centre of mental health of children and young people or adults, and that, moreover, when you have a difficult case that needs to follow, many times this follow-up is only produced monthly, when you surely need continued attention, attention at home or, many times, need a weekly attention. So, look, it's obvious that the law doesn't hold up when you, for example, don't even talk about the two main elements at these times that the Health Council has and has the public health system. And the other thing is access and approach, which you have to see with this, but you also have to see with the income inequalities, and we talked about it also when we did the specific plenary debate. A lot of people in Catalonia – I'm passed – don't know that the public portfolio of services and covers psychological care – don't know. That is to say, many times you think you have to go to the psychologist or psychologist and you can only go to the private. And now the very thing that's going on is that a lot of people who need psychological attention and even ask for it, triga a lot of time to be able to have the first visit, and then, when they need a visit every week, they can't have it. And if you're not fifty, sixty or seventy or eighty euros, you can't get psychological attention. You're not talking here either, are you? So, I think this is a phonetic element. And then you have another theme – that's why I say it's like a PR –..., that we obviously need suicide prevention programs. But quins? Next, we discuss concrete questions. I believe that if we make a law of mental salvation in Catalonia, for example, I believe that what we should establish, that is something that I have also demanded fifty thousand times from the councilman..., there must be a suicide phone in Catalonia. And it's not 061– it's not 061–, because 061 is a telephone of emergencies that the same professionals repeatedly tell you that it can serve for an emergence of an ongoing suicide, but it doesn't serve to accompany neither families, nor friends, nor a person who has suicidal temperaments. Because, many times, families don't know where to go when a child, a daughter, a friend, a brother, expresses them, well, they're thinking about suicide. And that's not 061. This is, for example, the service of care for the suicide of Barcelona, for example, which goes up..., and I have also told the councilman many times that practically sixty per cent of the tricks that go up to the service of Barcelona, and that the financing of the Barcelona Assembly – I think now, soon, will also co-finance the Generality – are from outside the city of Barcelona, from the conjunction of the territory of Catalonia. And that, besides, it is true, the State too – the 024 – has put a suicide call in the way. So, in short, I think it has to be..., we still think it has to be this legislature of mental salvation. I think it was good that Catalonia had a law of mental salvation. I don't think it's this, but I'm already saying it, as a very good gesture – I don't know if at any other time I'm running, I don't think so – we won't stop, or we won't support, in this case, the whole thing, but I'm already telling you that this isn't a mental health law, this is a bad marketing attempt from a political point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.239.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.240.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I have listened very carefully to the speeches of the rest of the speakers, and before I came into this matter I wanted to focus on two who have especially drawn my attention. First of all, Mr David Cid's most recent. I know it has nothing to do with the matter, but do not worry, Madam President, that I will soon enter into it, but answer to the speeches that have been made, right? I have always been very surprised by that intrinsic contradiction that you have – and you have just made it clear again, Mr. Cid – when you defend the absolute prohibition and the fact of pulling the game out of temptation and, instead, you defend the legalization of cannabis and other drugs 24 hours a day. I don't know, it's either forbidden or legalized. I don't think there's much difference between that kind of behavior. You have to agree on... I don't say about your morale anymore, do you? , about their therapies or how they deal with addictions. The second, which worries me most – I have listened with great attention to Mrs Vergés, who has also been a counselor on the subject – is that she has defended the concept of interculturality, that in doctrine it is assimilated to multiculturalism or cultural relativism and that it comes into opposition and in direct conflict with what others defend, which is cultural pluralism. Cultural pluralism implies, and it is very important to highlight what is – very important – the absolute hierarchy of the values contained in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. That is to say, with absolute respect for that declaration of human rights, diverse cultures enter, but always respecting that Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Interculturality, multiculturalism or cultural relativism convey the idea that there are no hierarchies in relation to this issue, but that everything is defendable, precisely in the name of that cultural relativism. That is what has caused in France or the Netherlands ghettos, ghettos in which, above and beyond legislation inspired by French or Dutch human rights, the Islamic sharia operates. I say this, because before using what terminology, then, when the consequences come, don't be surprised – don't be surprised. It is not interculturalism, it is cultural pluralism and it is what triumphs, it is what works, and it is accepting that there are different religious confessions, different cultures, but all subject to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to equality between men and women – to equality between men and women – which interculturality neither contemplates nor respects. I say this because it's very important, because then what happens in Catalonia happens: you win according to what speeches, and then you miss that you win. Having said that, the current one – which has been commented on by virtually all speakers – should be the legislature of mental health care. And, in fact, we have the appropriate instruments for that to happen: a monographic plenary on 14 December, a commission of study in operation, and in our view, too, the proposal for a law presented by the Citizens' Group and which, moreover, we find, from a personal sensitivity to the issue, by Mrs Grau. I must say that it seems to me insufficient, and also unfair, that an amendment to the whole should be tabled exclusively by saying that some expressions or the tone of the speech in Mrs Grau's debate have not liked or seemed frivolous or I do not know how many more stories. For me, and for our group, to present an amendment to the whole exclusively because of that – and, moreover, which has been exclusively because of that and has been transferred by various parliamentary groups – is a missed opportunity to introduce a third element on the political agenda for it to become the legislature of mental health care. I repeat: a full monograph, a study commission, and now a proposal for a law. I am not an expert on the subject and therefore we, at the moment, should have to analyse with the people with whom we speak on the subject, if, as Mr Cid said, there are some elements, which are probably right, which do not fit, or which are more in line with a PR than with a law, I will not question it, but I believe that presenting an amendment to the whole is to launch an inappropriate message, and it is to launch a message of lack of unity in a matter in which on the previous issues – I repeat: full monographic and study committee – we had been able to achieve political unity. That is why we are going to reject the amendment as a whole, we are going to give support to the bill, because we believe that a message of, at least, continuing to work in favour of political unity for mental health care is being cast through that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.241.0	Yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.242.0	Article 87, for direct references by Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.243.0	Have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.244.0	I will never exceed his oratory ability, but in any case, in the same way that I would never be heard of proposing a theme park of marijuana at Camp Tarragona, know that you are the theme park of Blackjack, of the thousand dark-butxacal machines and three hundred Russian roulettes, almost – almost. That's why I invite you to, like, at least, right? , explain to the people of Camp Tarragona that you pose is this: a theme park of the game at Camp Tarragona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.245.0	As the Member of the Joint Group has not consumed all the time, I leave a little space to make the third call to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Grau, are you asking for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.246.0	Yes, President. As I see that today's criteria for allusions are lax, I would also like to make a very brief intervention for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.247.0	No, the criteria are not lax, they are not wrong; the criteria are relevant. And, therefore, the references to which Mr. Cid referred were out of what we were talking about, and with those very words he did what he used to say. He said: "President, I do not feel sorry for you, who will then return to the question, and then it is when he has been greeted. Therefore, the criteria are the same as always and it is the criteria that he approaches, which is: when it is relevant to make the word for allusions, I grant it. Thank you. The debate ended, therefore, and we now proceed to vote on the motion for a totality presented jointly by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. The vote of Mr Lluís Puig will be added to the vote on the basis of the vote indicated by the spokesman of his parliamentary group. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The total vote was adopted with 107 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 11 abstentions. Therefore, this initiative remains rejected. Let's move to the next point of the order of the day, and I'll inform you about an alteration, a new alteration of the order of the day. In accordance with Article 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the request made by the Government, the inquiry into the international political situation and the right to self-determination, which appears as though it were in the order of the day, will be substantiated tomorrow, after the fifteenth point, which is the inquiry to the Government on the protection of the coastal environment. Therefore, the agenda is changed. [[Asking the Government about policies to curb the illegal occupation of housing]] [[300-00199/13]] And now we move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government about policies to stop the illegal occupation of habitats, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. It has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.248.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to convey my support to all those Catalan families who have suffered from the rise of illegal occupation, who have seen their homes illegally occupied by criminals; criminals protected and protected by the Government of the Government of the Generalitat and by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, to whom the Okupas put a red carpet. Counselor, let's go back... Counselor, to question you for the second time in this legislature about your policies to deal with illegal occupation. We have had almost a year and a half of the legislature and the Government has done nothing to curb this scourge of occupation. For you it is a problem that does not exist. Neither you nor Mr Aragonès have heard a single word about the illegal occupation since they have been at the head of the Government of the Generalitat. The Government has set itself up in the denial of a problem that has been met in Catalonia as in no other region of Spain and that generates a great social alarm. Today it is rare to find a neighbour of any municipality in Catalonia who has not suffered in the first person or in his nearby environment a case of occupation. Illegal occupation is a problem that is felt every day in the streets of Catalonia and opens press headlines, day yes, day also. Catalonia records forty_and_dos_per_cent of complaints of illegal occupation of flats. The Catalan Agency of Habitatge records more than a thousand occupied floors. And it is fixed if it generates social alarm that, until the Association of Municipalities of the Metropolitan Arc, none of them still ruled by VOX, with their mayors at the head, are mobilizing themselves and demanding urgent measures and reforms to tackle the phenomenon of illegal occupation, which is fired in all those municipalities and, of course, in Catalonia in general. Therefore, Councillor, I ask you, and I also asked Mr. Elena in his previous interpellation – because we understood that this is also a matter of security, because illegal occupation does not cease to be a crime–..., that it is not VOX who creates social alarm, as the Councillor told me in the previous interpellation, is the silence, complicity and paralysis of the Government in the face of this outpouring reality. You are the biggest social alarm for Catalan working families. Catalonia continues to lead all the statistics of illegal occupation and already accumulates forty_and_dos_per_cent of the occupations throughout Spain, almost half. In 2021, 7,345 complaints, given that he quintupled Madrid and tripled Andalusia. But, moreover, if we add to the criminal complaints the civil proceedings, we can be talking no longer of 7,345 occupations, but of close to fourteen_ thousand annual occupations, which means almost forty daily occupations in Catalonia. Thousands of families destroyed, psychologically and economically, by the occupation. In what we have been doing since 2022, the Government has the sad honor of having reached another record: to incorporate another Catalan capital into the ranquin of the Spanish provinces with more occupations. The first of all Spain is Barcelona; the second, from January to April 2022, has been Tarragona. Congratulations, because they've done it. They have managed to turn Catalonia into the paradise of illegal occupation. And in the face of this bleeding reality, we continue to wonder what the government has done in the year and a half of the legislature. And to deal with this serious problem, I'm going to point out five ideas, five lines of action. First, put an end to the desire, inaction, tolerance and complicity that his Government has with illegal occupation. It must be made very clear that illegal occupation is not a way of accessing housing. The Administration and the public authorities must convey a strong message of condemnation of illegal occupation, without euphemisms and half inks. He is a criminal and criminals cannot have more rights than Catalans who scrupulously comply with the law. Two, push for the necessary regulatory changes to put an end to the illegal occupation of housing. Spain is the state of the European Union which has a slower judicial response to the illegal occupation alongside Portugal. Bad legislation and slow judicial response. And the protection of owners must be strengthened, both at criminal and civil level. At the penal level, because it can't be that stealing a mobile phone has more pain than usurping a house. And on a civilian level, because it can't be that a person takes three or four years to get his or her house back and, on top of that, he or she will be paying for the supplies of the house. There's bad state legislation, that's right. And that is why VOX has just presented to the Congress of Deputies, on June 22, an extensive proposal for an organic law aimed at combating the phenomenon of illegal occupation. But if Catalonia accumulates forty_y_dos_per_cent of the occupations in all of Spain is not because of this poor state legislation, it is because of bad Catalan legislation and a mismanagement of the Government of the Generalitat. Councilwoman, encourage the amendment of the Catalan Law 1/2000 of urgent measures to improve access to housing, which is being appealed to the Constitutional Court, which has, of course, just admitted to the appeal; a law legitimizing the occupation, which grants rights to the Okupas, facilitating or obliging them to be provided with a social rental and thus de facto recognizes illegal occupation as a way of accessing housing. There is nothing equivalent in any other part of Spain or in the rest of Europe. With laws like this, you are responsible for Catalonia leading, year after year, criminal statistics. Three, talk to all the institutions involved and protect the communities of neighbors, who are desperate. They bring together the housing sector in Catalonia, because the problem is already endemic. They provide housing for families, pensioners, workers, small owners, small businesses and promoters of new works. They even occupy public-owned dwellings intended for official protection. The Catalan Housing Agency has more than a thousand dwellings occupied in Catalonia. This is unacceptable, because illegal occupation is harming the most vulnerable families, those who meet all the requirements, who patiently wait the time necessary to have social housing and who see how the Okupas pass them and the Generalitat does absolutely nothing to avoid it. And help, as I said, the communities of neighbors, because an okupa is like a cancer for a community of owners: serious problems of coexistence with neighbors, discomfort, unhealthyness, noises, fights at all times and wrecks in the building; various crimes, such as punctures and splices of light, water, gas, which are a real risk to the community; threats and attacks on neighbors, marijuana cultivation, drug trafficking and other more serious criminal forms. Give the tools to the communities of owners, to the administrations of farms, which are the first to see, when these problems occur, day by day the despair of the neighbors, because they are absolutely in a state of absolute defencelessness. Four, they fight the mafias of illegal occupation. The Okupas, Madam Counselor, and you know it, are advised. They all know them: they blow a door, they change the bomb, and the first thing they do is put a sign on the door that says that they have been living here for more than 24 hours and that they cannot be kicked out because it is their home, and we all know that it is bluntly false. It is no longer a matter of a few spontaneous occupations. Today we can talk about a structural and organized phenomenon. This has been recognized by police authorities, such as in Mataró. Mafia who use vulnerable people to extort property owners for money or who take ownership of flats and offer them to vulnerable people for important economic sums; foreigners who pay the mafia in their country of origin to occupy a flat in Catalonia; anti-system movements sheltered under their investment partners; ex-MENAs; mafia groups who even use minors to occupy flats and pay them for it; criminal networks that publish on the internet an entire black market of flats to be occupied. The occupations are no longer spontaneous, are indiscriminate, affect all kinds of owners, generate important social and neighborhood conflicts and, above all, in the humblest neighborhoods, where the occupations are destroying social peace and security. This reality is causing many families to have to leave the neighbourhoods where they have grown up because of the degradation caused by illegal occupation, and the Government continues to sit down, denying the problem and keeping silent. And, five, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the local police must be given legal and political support and clear criteria for doing their job. There is no point in increasing the staff of Mossos d'Esquadra if they do not have the legal coverage and security to act. Be brave and facilitate to the Mossos d'Esquadra a protocol with a clear time parameter of action. Because it cannot be, we cannot allow the victims of the illegal occupation to be told, when they have just received a warning that there has been an occupation, that they cannot do anything. Do you know the feeling of impotence that this generates for the victims and even for the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra themselves? Mrs Conseller, we must combat illegal occupation with political determination on all its faces, both to the one who sticks the kick on the door and breaks the lock and to the one who replaces the kick on the door with a contract of rent in fraud of law, who do not pay even the first monthly; the one known as the « inquiokupa, the new form of occupation that is proliferating in Catalonia. Therefore, keep in mind that occupation does harm to working people, to humble people. The occupation also harms our neighbourhoods and our peoples, generating crime, insecurity and problems of coexistence. And above all, the occupation, in short, harms the institutions, causing the citizens to lose confidence in seeing how the politicians who govern us, you, Madam Councillor, forget the victims and protect the criminals. I therefore ask the Government, after a year and a half of inaction..., to ask again: what steps will the Government of the Generalitat take to address the serious problem of illegal occupation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.249.0	Next, the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.250.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, you asked a very specific question, and it is what the Government of the Generality intends to do in order to be able to fight against these illegal occupations. In the first place, what the Government of the Generality wants to do is that there are no people in our country who need to occupy illegally or without a habitable cell, so illegally a building, because, quite simply, they are in some personal or family conditions that make it difficult for them to have access to housing. Some data, some of the data that we manage from the Agency of the Habitat of Catalonia, for, a little, to situate what is the reality of our country. At these times, the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia managed around 40,500 habitats. This year 2021, we have earmarked our budget of EUR 140_million to help vulnerable families to pay for these loggers, these housing loggers. Some 75,000 families have been able to enjoy these 140_million euros in order to be among their habitations. And what we do from the agency is, through the media we have, so we can acquire more housing. Through the mechanism of the Generality of Tanteig and Retract, this year 2021, the agency has acquired four hundred habitats, which add up, from the year 2015, to 3,581 habitats that the agency has acquired, as well as the year 2015. And also the management of the habitats that give up the financial entities, which, at these times, are 4,313, 3,820 of which are already, effectively, given up by the entities, and to be able to form part of this park of public habitats in order to be managed, therefore, by the agency. Moreover, what we do is try to establish different programs that allow, precisely, the most vulnerable families to be romanced to their habitations. The Reallotgem program, for example, so, during this year, we could sign two-hundred housing contracts. And then, too, what we want is to be able to help young people acquire habitats in our country, and so we made the announcement that from now on, all public habitats managed by the Generality or created by the Generality, the twenty-five per cent set for the management of young people. Therefore, we find ourselves in a context of urgency, above all because of the covid, which has allowed us, therefore, to stop, and..., in fact, this is the competence of the Government of the State, and the Government of the State has established a series of moratoriums, which they did was to paralyze these processes of denunciation; moratoriums that have widened until September 30 of this year 2022. But we know that, at these times, there are 4,500 paralyzed launches, precisely for this moratorium, so that we can face these difficulties as a result of the covid. The Generalitat de Catalunya, in the band of the eleven _months of Emergencies that there is in our country that have some of the joints, the year 2021 had almost a thousand people, concretely 946 people, housing pendants of the table of Emergency. In this year 2022, it has fallen to 789 people. And it's obvious that housing emergence in our country is a problem, it's a serious problem. And from the government of the generality we try to work there with all our possibilities. One of our possibilities, for example, is to be able to acquire the floors of the Sareb. We know that at the register level there are, at least, six thousand floors in Catalonia that are the property of the Sareb, a bank that has been rescued and that, therefore, is rescued with public money, even though we do not know if they are between six thousand and twelve thousand, because the twelve thousand are those that are, therefore, registered on their web page. But not only the six thousand floors of the Sareb – and we remember that there are 4,500 launches–, but also the floors of the great tenors, that at the conjunction of the State it seems that there are about thirty thousand floors, and that through the plan one hundred thousand, therefore, we call on the State to transfer these floors to the autonomous communities to be able to make this reallocation. Therefore, from the Government, the first priority is the purchase and acquisition of habitats in order to be able to care for the most vulnerable families in our country who, unfortunately, therefore, have to occupy habitats, or occupy habitats in an irregular way, because, simply, they do not have resources. Four hundred habitats, as we say, acquired by many and retractors, and therefore we will try to expand this number of habitats. And, more than that, so, the European foundations allow us..., or we have an opportunity with the European foundations: 160_million euros that will allow us to build four_ thousand habitats in our country; habitats that will be built in public soil, dedicated to social logger. Or EUR 480 million, which must also be used to rehabilitate more than 65,000 buildings or habitats, so that they can also improve this energy efficiency. Many of these habitats, therefore, are old habitats, and therefore it is necessary to be able to do this type of rehabilitation. You were talking about the occupied floors, which the Habitat Agency at these times has occupied. As we say, of the forty-thousand floors the agency has, around a thousand, it's true, they're busy, and the generality continues to work in this line. It continues to work on this line, and, therefore, on February 22, the Habitatage Agency Administration Board approved a protocol, which basically allows this protocol to protect vulnerable families who do not have this enabling title. A protocol that does what it does is to co-participate the assemblies of the floors that there is agency in these municipalities, therefore, that are occupied in an irregular way, and what we do is also collaborate with them. The agency, at these times, what it has done is to send cards to these joints, because within three_months it communicates to the agency whether these people are in a situation or not of vulnerability. And if they're in a vulnerable situation, what we're doing is we're setting up a whole protocol so that they can temporarily be Romanesque in these buildings, and one time you're all solved, trying to find an alternative housing solution for these families. And these families, what they're supposed to do, is complete a series of requests. Among them, for example, must be integrated into the social follow-up programmes of vulnerable families of the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, giving high levels of sub-administration, and satisfy the corresponding rejections on time; integrate into the community of veins and hard, in an accurate manner, the maintenance of the common elements of the building; preserve the habitat; strictly complete all the obligations arising from the temporary occupation authorization document; satisfy on time the discards of the canon; also satisfy the expenses, and attend and give access to the habitatation to the staff of the agency to verify the correct use of the conservation of this habitation. Therefore, we work, we try to work, but above all the priority of the department is to age because vulnerable people who have difficulties, so they can have these habitats, and worthy habitats. We'll keep working on this line. They know the dice aren't good. We also know that not all the habitats that are occupied are occupied by vulnerable people; we have to work. But since the Generality we also have a problem – and you have highlighted it more or less, but the emphasis only on myths –: the majority of the competitions that you have cited are not competitions of the Generality of Catalonia, unfortunately. The day we follow an independent country, so we can enjoy these competitions. The Criminal Code, for example, or access to justice does not depend on the Government of Catalonia; therefore, at these times, the only thing we can do is change the Criminal Code, which is what makes it, therefore, the rule or not the rule of these launches. The Generalitat's working, it's still working. I insist: what we will continue to do is try to ensure that all the citizens of our country who find themselves in difficulties can enjoy a habitation in conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.251.0	In the turn of the line, Mr Sergio Macián once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.252.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Cervera, it is surprising..., welcome Mr Elena, because the debate I think it would be good for you to have it in mind too, because it is incredible that the Generalitat, to talk about criminal occupation, sends me to the Social Rights Counsellor to talk about public housing. [[Some applause.]] By the way, that's good, that's good, that they're talking about public housing, social housing, that we're in two-per-cent, when the European average is in nine. And it's okay for them to start talking about spending on social housing. And we could already stop talking about spending on expressident offices, on county councils, on superfluous spending on state structures. But the debate was not that; the debate was criminal occupation. And, Counselor, is this the answer the government has to talk about security? Do you thus intend to face the mafias of illegal occupation, the nine hundred demands that have occurred in a year, only in Mataró, who are desperate? That is the main problem that the Government has, which is to deny the problem and mix the debates: to convert a crime and pretend that it is a right, to unprotect Catalans. Look, I'm going to talk to you about what vulnerable people are, Mrs. Cervera, you who have come here so much and talked to us. Do you know who the truly vulnerable are? They are those who are robbed of the fruit of their work when they are occupied by their home; all those who are unprotected from the illegal occupation of their property are vulnerable; those who suffer from the degradation of their neighbourhoods are vulnerable, because narcookupas have been installed that bring violence to the communities of owners and to the streets; those applicants of official protection housing who look desperately as the okupas pick up, are given a floor because they throw the door down. It's vulnerable Carme. Do you know who Carme is? She is a woman of seventy-two years of Malgrat de Mar with mobility problems, Mrs Cervera, who after working for nineteen years to buy a flat and to spend dreams of old age have taken care of it. This lady wrote to Parliament, to all the parliamentary groups; she did not listen to anyone – no one – except VOX, who, by the way, yesterday we accompanied her to the trial against her occupant, against the okupa of her home. That is accompaniment, which Mr Elena referred to this morning, that security is to accompany, is to guarantee rights and freedoms. This is accompaniment. This is what worries us, Mrs. Carme, seventy-two years old, to which you, Mrs. Cervera – Mr. Elena for absence and you for incomparance – are that you give no answer. They give him no response to the criminal occupation. Look, we, despite, I tell you, their absolute inoperation, tell them that this is a matter of political will to change laws and to pursue criminals, and also to act quickly when an illegal occupation occurs. And, therefore, as you look elsewhere, we will continue to demand solutions to put an end to the scourge of illegal occupation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.253.0	And in the turn of the line, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.254.0	Thank you, President. Mr Miri, honourable Member, it is true that I support the social rights adviser and my main mission, to hear us, is to be able to guarantee housing for the most vulnerable people, the people who really need it. You have raised a series of difficulties that in a certain way are not the competence of my department, I mean, we have to get old because people can have a decent habitat. And what we do, and what we do with the resources of the Habitatage Agency, which until now the assumption was 256_million euros, of the 256_million euros dedicated 140_million euros, precisely, to help the lodger because these people are not obliging to be denuded of their own habitats. The issue of illegal occupations lies with the owners, the owners at the individual level and with justice; justice and, as you said, laws regulating this type of launch. I do not rely on the advice of the Social Rights Council, which, I insist, is to be able to get old because all the people of our country can live in a decent habitat. And we'll keep working on it. They made a distinction, obviously, from my department, to help those vulnerable people from those people who are not vulnerable; they made clear those people who are and have the right to be at an emergency table and those who do not have the right to be at an emergency table. And that's why the protocol we approved at the time of the fever, in order to guarantee this habitation to people who may be at a _emergency table and who, at these times, would still end up with much more social exclusion. Therefore, what we have to do as a government – and this is our responsibility – is to be able to acquire as much housing as possible. And one of the possibilities to acquire this habitat in a quick way and, in short, is to ask the Government of the State to transfer the six thousand or twelve thousand floors of the Sareb to help those families that need it. And then, too, talk about the big tenors. This is what we are doing from the Government of the Generality; this is what we will continue to do from the Department of Social Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.255.0	Let's move on to the 8th item of the agenda, the question to the government about the AP-7 collapses; presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about AP-7 motorway collapses]] [[300-00201/13]] It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.256.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... I see that who will attend this inquiry into the collapse of the AP-7 will be the Councillor of Interior, Mr. Elena. No problem. I am drawn to the attention that Vice President Puignero did not even attend, when it is a matter very directly related to his issues, with the saturation of infrastructures, with his availability, with the management, with the offer of alternative public transport, matters that totally and directly involve his areas of government. I also tell you that we do not miss much in your answer either, because Mr Puigneró is quite predictable. In this case what I would say, which is the same thing that tells us every time we put a problem on the table, is that "Spanisha robs us, Spanisha robs us. That's what he'd tell us. We would say: « – But if you are taking off a toll. – Yes, but all the fault is Madrid. It's all Madrid's fault. Yes, I'm sure the Spanish government can do things and, in fact, will do them – it has announced some performance – but you can do a lot too. In fact, you, Councillor Elena, proposed some of the alternatives. "Yes, but it costs money. And the fiscal deficit, the fiscal deficit... and that's where the story ends. This story is always like this. You know it, I know it. And if we had Mr. Puignero here, that would be exactly what he would say. But let's get to the point, because we do like to get into problems and analyze possible solutions. In recent months, especially in recent weeks, the collapse of AP-7 has become a torture for many families and workers. Since last September, when the toll was eliminated, the traffic was growing, especially at the beginning of heavy vehicles, but now that the activity has been recovering after the covid, the situation has become dramatic, and those jams, which before could be common on Fridays and Sundays, are now totally recurring and much larger, and also occur daily. The recovery of the activity has caused us to have jams now those Fridays or those Sundays or those peak days of up to twenty_kilometres, both from the Costa Dorada and from the Costa Brava. And when some incidence occurs, we encounter absolutely blocked vehicles, because many times these incidences prevent the passage or decrease it much. And we find absolutely blocked vehicles, sometimes in queues of more than thirty kilometers. When they try to get out of that mousetrap, what happens to them is that these accesses to the alternative pathways, which can be the B-23, the C-58, the B-30, the C-59, are also collapsed and found, if not on the main track, in the perfectly stuck links. There are people who arrive late for work, students who have arrived late for their classes, students who even in June have arrived late for their exams or some sure that some have been missed. And that generates a lot of nerves and a lot of frustration. Neighbors in the affected areas are concerned – they are concerned – and much, because they do not see a clear exit. I was in Salou, for example, last week, and it was one of the first things that moved me: your concern for these collapses. They also moved their concern to me because the tram train does not arrive, which probably if they had it already, then they would not have to take the car. But, above all, these AP-7 collapses. In addition to stress and stress, they see an increase in the risk of accidents, also due to this increase in heavy vehicles. And, besides, they see that in a world where distances are measured for minutes more than miles... they see themselves more and more far away from everything and more isolated. This isn't something you can't predict. That the concession ended in 2021 was known since the late 1990s, and that it was going to become a free route and Minister Ana Pastor said so and it was something very difficult to reverse. We all knew this was gonna happen. Some of the deputies in the area..., or I remember Mrs Naomi de la Calle, who often goes to Tarragona, said to me: "This is going to collapse when it passes. And yet, when the day came, what happened? Well, there was nothing prepared. Now they'll say yes. Things have been done. I appreciate that things have been done, but that there was something prepared no one believes it, because one counselor said one thing, another counselor said another thing. Some things were said in the morning, some in the afternoon, some in the morning. « The C-32 should be lifted. "No, that's not the solution. " Trucks must be kept, economic activity cannot be changed. "Now we have to divert the trucks. The truth is, it was all improvisation. The only thing the whole government agreed on is what we already knew that Mr. Puigneró would have told us today as well, and that he probably repeats to us also Councillor Elena, which is that all this is the fault of the Government of Spain because it does not invest in infrastructure. And my question is: has anyone ever seen Republican Left of Catalonia condition Sanchez's investment support to do anything to keep this infrastructure from becoming saturated? That lane, for example, which is now going to expand, has anyone ever seen Republican Left ask for it to be made? It's more likely to find someone from the Republican Left asking it not to be done, that extension of the highway lane. Now it seems obvious that it has to be done, but I say to you that two years ago, if you had asked for that lane, there would have been more than one saying that ‘no, no, no. The gentlemen of the CUP and the gentlemen of the commons will also see where they come from, and some of the Republican Left will easily follow them. And other ways, too. For example, the B-40, the connection to the B-40, which would surely ease the pace as well. Has anyone seen someone from this government, especially from the Republican Left, ask for those accesses with the B-40 to evacuate as soon as possible? Oh, no, if what they're asking is just the opposite, let the B-40 not be done, that's not necessary, that we don't need any more lanes for the cars. Look, it seems to me very legitimate to claim infrastructure for Catalonia. We do so too, whenever we have an opportunity; whenever we have been able to condition some budget we have done so. But it is quite cynical to accuse the Government of the queues in the AP-7 and of the lack of execution of investments in infrastructure, while, on the other hand, it is demanded that works such as those of the Fourth Belt be paralyzed. And now, because the situation is very dramatic, I say that they will surely accept this enlargement. Not to mention – we are talking about investment in infrastructure – about the cynicism they have regarding the treatment of tolls. That's a position that, come on, it's always seemed dramatic to me. The same people who are now opposed to lifting the barriers of the C-32 as an alternative way to relieve those travelers who are suffering from queues, the same people who are now opposed to lifting the barriers of the C-32 are those who not many years ago promoted the campaign of « Catalunya sense peatges y« No want to pay. And I've already brought this here once, but I think it's a really good time to remember. Our expressor, Mr. Torra – I don't know if they knew – decided in 2012 that he didn't want to pay the tolls. Here they can say: "We have a lot of sensitivity with those travelers who have to pay the tolls, who have to scratch their pockets. But that's not why, gentlemen. Here the issue of tolls, such as delays in proximity, such as any problem that any Catalan citizen has, has been used to stir up the worst feelings and to generate hatred against the rest of the Spaniards. That's not what I'm saying. I mean, I could say it, because I think it, but I don't say it myself. Mr. Tora, who we have and who was very prolific in those days, then, left it written. He, in those days that he skipped the toll and recorded a video, wrote why he did it. Was it for all those poor Catalans who had to pay? No, look, the title of the article was called "The village is already separatant d'Espanya. That was the title of the article in which he explained why the toll skipped, and he said: "From the first moment I understood this action as the logical decision of a society completely exhausted, desolate, girl of the colonial exploitation we suffer. That's what I was saying. Has the people already separated from Spain? Types of colonial exploitation we're suffering? But if he was jumping, do you know what toll? Do you know what to do? Just that of the C-32 – that of the C-32 – which must be lifted now [[some applause]] And the one this government can lift whenever it wants. I'm running out of time. And since I do not have Mr Puigneró here to answer what he is going to do in relation to infrastructure, I do want to ask you what your opinion is from the point of view of the area he is carrying, which would be from traffic. Do you think lifting the C-32 barriers could help relieve congestion? Yes or no? Or do you think lowering public transport rates, even if exceptionally, could also help this increase in private vehicles to move to public transport? Or dissuasive parking or putting in more trains, which is something in your hands? Or have the tram train, as I told you before, from Salou? We'd like to know your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.257.0	Thank you very much. Madam Bravo, in this hemisphere you can sort the languages that are used, but don't make a mockery of it. We expect more arguments than imitations when using the Catalan language, and more so when I put it in the vice president's mouth, than it's just here to defend itself. [[Greetings.]] Then, has the word the Councillor d'Interior... Yes, Mr Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.258.0	Because you explain exactly what it means when you say that Mrs. Bravo ridiculed the Catalan language.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.259.0	To Mrs Bravo, I made this indication when in the opening of your parliament you regretted that there was no Vice President; you put in your mouth some expressions, you made them in Catalan language and you were ridiculed as much the Vice President as the Catalan language. And that's what I told him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.260.0	That's amazing. It's the summum that you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.261.0	He asked me why I had done the indication and I made it that indication.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.262.0	Unbelievable, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.263.0	The word has the advisor of Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena. [[Widow's remorse.]] Silence and education, please. You've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.264.0	Well, president, deputies, deputies... [[Widow's remorse.]] We're here to talk about the collapses at the AP-7. [[Widow's remorse.]] That I didn't just happen to get us into col·lapse... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... [[Widow's remorse.]] I insist that we come to talk about the AP-7 collapses, this is their title. We try not to get into collapsing, because..., and we talk about concrete things. You're talking about traffic, aren't you? And the Department of the Interior relies on the Català Transit Service. And I want to talk to you, in effect, about the AP-7, the measures we have taken in this way since the Catalan Transit Service, and what we are concerned about and what concerns us. And, indeed, we are very concerned and concerned about the traffic that has occurred and, above all, about the left-handedness that has occurred. I think I'm reeling, in relation to the year... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's focus, that you... that's a motto of yours, this one, huh? [[Counselor laughs.]] This center is a... I want to start by talking about accidents and because it's the first concern. The year 2019, which is the reference that we can take for all before the pandemic, we had suffered these ups and downs of eighty-four people killed in long-distance lives. 22, enguany, eighty-two – less, right? A couple less. But the left-handedness, the mortality that occurred at the AP-7 was..., went from four to seven. That's to say, with the same... almost fewer people who have lost their lives, it quadrupled to the AP-7. And that has many explanations, doesn't it? One of them is that the AP-7_has incorporated a forty_per_cent more– a forty_per_per_cent more – vehicles in relation to a..., in relation to before the release of the tolls, eh? And, therefore, that's a concern. This is the first, the one linked to the left-handedness, and that is why we have acted since the Catalan Transit Service. I want to give them two dates because I think they're uplifting. One is that there is a forty per cent more traffic, more vehicles, more road use. And the other is that there are times, there are spaces and concrete places – to the Rock, for example – that there are times when the « top that can be assumed..., even if there is col·lapse, let's say, even if there is retention, in this way there is space, there are places where the sixty_per_cent is exceeded. That's to say, if there are five thousand vehicles per hour they can take over, up to times when there are eight thousand– 7,500 and 8,000. I want to talk to you about who we're dealing with. And naturally, I want to talk about what measures should be taken and taken by all administrations. I am particularly beginning with the measures that we have adopted. Because from the point of view of the Catalan Transit Service, there are four measures that can be taken to give more agility, more fluid in one way. One is the use of one's own way. The other is to add more carts to this path and, therefore, they are the additional carts. The other is to divert vehicles to other lives and, therefore, to make use of all the lives that the country has at times when there is the greatest pressure of vehicles. And the other is public transportation. I'll talk about public transport too. What do you mean by rationalizing the way, the use of the way, what happened? Basically three measures. One is to ask for a reduction in speed. Because it has been proven that, in the extent that speed is reduced, the maximum speed, is more respected the distance between vehicles and this ensures that there are fewer accidents caused by the operation of one vehicle with another. And that's more than half the accidents that took place at the AP-7, a kick from one car behind another. In some areas, the Ministry, the Directorate-General for Transit has accepted it – in some areas of the case and in some moments. We're working because we're still working. And, at the same time, we believe that there must be a general reduction in this way, at least during certain hours and during certain fringes. The other measure to streamline the use of the route is more information, more information in the information panels. The other is the cranes that we have incorporated from the Català de Trànsit Service; cranes that are in strategic areas of the way, of the AP-7, to ensure that when there is an accident, for what it is, the vehicles continue with some ease, with speed. One of the problems that has occurred is that many of the accidents have caused the cranes of the insurances to have taken a long time to arrive, so that we have incorporated a crane service into strategic areas to reach as quickly as possible. And, finally, in this rational use of the same lives that we have, there are limitations and restrictions: the diumenges, of use, of the prohibition of passing trucks, and also the limitations of how to use the way the trucks sell them late or the days that send them away is party, huh? , out of operations. This, of course, we have agreed with the sector and talking with the sector, because, obviously, transport, too, naturally, is by itself an economic activity generating economic activity for a very large number of people. These have been some measures. The other is the incorporation of more trolleys. In particular to the AP-7, therefore, an additional forty-kilometre lane has been incorporated into what already existed in the south, that is to say, forty-kilometres in the north, from Parets to Sant Celoni – this additional lane, which began to function by the lap of Sant Joan, the truth is that it has had a very good result–, apart from the additional lanes that it is making to the C-32 north and to the C-32 south, of the deu_quilometers this and of the twenty-i-five-kilometres the previous. The other is the derivation, the derivation into strategic places, when there is collapsing, of vehicles to other lanes. And then I'll talk about it, because yes, there are responsibilities of the State too in relation to this in some determined lanes, of which there is no need to talk and which should have been arranged, built and in the service of being able to improve the system. And finally, the fourth measure is public transportation. And here I want to do a reflection. It's a lot about the retentions that have the diminions in the late, the divinations in the late, that is, the operations out and back. But the name of the kilometers of which, of col·lapse, of the retentions that is produced in Catalonia is the same every day of the week, both in operations gone and returned from the end of the week as to go to work; the one that comes down the « obliged mobility is the same. This first, this week's headlines, has a dimension of many of the measures I have explained to you here, because it is true that on many occasions this week's headline is more complex to talk about public transportation to get out; but that of each day has a name, and it is called public transportation. And I insisted a lot on a word that's called rolls. Rodalies doesn't work like it should. [[Some applause.]] And I know about the Bottle, and rollers are one of the things that is more limited and that forces so many citizens to take the vehicle every day. And, therefore, it is a deficit in this country that needs to be solved. And that's not a chimera, because sometimes we have longings that seem to follow, from the point of view of the infrastructures..., say: "Ep, we can do... That... I'll tell you more: in a few moments it worked; twenty years ago, at a certain time, it worked, and in Madrid it works. And that's just putting money in it, putting resources in it, putting mediums in it, putting it in reverse. And after explaining it..., because I think we have to start – it's true, and I recognize it – each one explaining who are the measures that, from their responsibility, they can put on the table. And I think we did. Then I will explain what measures I think you should take other administrations to deal with this situation. But I want to finish saying one thing: these measures, to a good extent, have worked force. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] These two, three weeks later. I'm done. It's true that there's collapsing, it's true that there's retention, but this is monitored and etched. The retentions there are at these times are not much higher than there were on the 19th. This does not mean that we have to conform, and that is why all these measures are being taken. But these measures are working, and we will continue to monitor them and monitor them and follow them to apply them more, to ensure, therefore, that operations go and go as it was produced at the turn of Sant Joan, which seems to me to have been successful, to a good extent also thanks to the responsibility of citizens, it is also produced on future occasions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.265.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.266.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all and let it be clear that I have not ridiculed any language, I would lack more, I have not even ridiculed any politician; at the very least, questioned, therefore, some of the arguments that some politicians here always use, because of course they have quite little logic. Mr. Counselor, you haven't answered many questions. If you have told me what you have done, that you were more or less aware and we have already told you that we recognize the effort, but you have not just answered me. He questioned Rodalies, but in his data he said that most of the problems..., or the biggest increase in traffic was heavy vehicles. Do you think lifting the C-32 barriers could help relieve congestion? This was the first question. Yes or no? As for public transport, Rodales has problems; it is not always punctual. He goes little to Madrid, because there are problems... I don't know right now the current data, but the problems of punctuality, if they are not the same, are not very far away. Do you think lowering public transport rates could help, even exceptionally, to move passengers to public transport? Or put in more trains? Putting in more trains is something that the Generalitat has competences. There are still grooves in the lines running parallel to the AP-7, and all that can be done. As for the complaints he makes, which seems to move us to, from which there may be in the infrastructure, perhaps, of Rodalies, I remind him of one thing that is very simple: the Government of Spain is more his partners than mine. You do not have to ask me for explanations, that we already tell you that we ask them whenever we have occasion in the government, in the Congress of Deputies. But what I was saying above all is that investment cannot be claimed when it is not even clear where it is going. Here, the B-40 is one of the examples that I think could give way to much of the traffic. And what we have seen here is that, above all, a part of the government is asking for its cessation. But it doesn't just happen with the B-40. It has happened very recently with the airport, it has happened with many other investments. It's 1,600_million that were going to be invested in the airport, which we've finally lost. In the B-40 there's also a lot of money that we're going to see how it ends. Surely here we are voting on a motion in the next few days and we will see how the parties that support the government vote, because there is no rhythm at all. In Catalonia, it is very difficult to make progress on infrastructure, even in which it is the Government itself that has to push them forward. What about the C-32? What's going to happen to her? Do we know? I don't think we know that. And with many other infrastructures it's exactly the same. Catalonia has been blocked for years. It's a no-go government. It is a government in which it is very difficult to invest, in which it is very difficult to grow in infrastructure. And I have worked precisely in Adif, and the Mediterranean Corridor is asking a lot. We all agree that the Mediterranean Corridor needs to be done. But when you go to the field and when you're going to do an act, it turns out that opinions are different. Some want a third lane, others want a platform, others want a new platform, but that does not pass by their people, others want the Reus-Road, others oppose the Reus-Road. It is very difficult really for investments to take place in Catalonia as long as this government is still in place. So, simply repeat the questions. Do you think lifting the C-32 barriers could help? Is it in the hands of this government? Do you think lowering public transport rates, as you have done, for example, as has been done in many places, could help? I think so. We have proposed it here many times, that young allowance so that young people can move around Catalonia for thirty euros. I think it is something very viable and very economically manageable. Or put in more trains, which is also something you can do. Or that Tram train from Tarragona, when do you think it'll be? , and if you think you could also help ease – as you have said well that public transport is one of the solutions – part of the problem we have in AP-7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.267.0	And, in the turn of the line, the inside counselor returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.268.0	Well, President, Congresswoman, I... , who come to talk about very sectoral issues and you have a speech as well as very... as a template, don't you? And they kept him intact, and then they introduced sectoral issues like that, more so. « That she is paralyzed, « that Catalonia is paralyzed, that someone said. Look, I'm not getting into this, that we've talked enough about it in the morning, whether it's there or not. I guess you're obviously not. Look, I'm just seeing Councilman Torrent here and he's made a pretty extensive explanation about... that's just the opposite. I wanted to start before, just, explaining what it is that we have done, what is in our hand, what is in our abyss, isn't it? Because it's our obligation and, like the government, the first one we have to explain is this, which is responsible for our responsibilities. In my opinion, more than that, I want to add something. I believe that, at the end of the pages, on the part of the State there was improvisation. Look, one example is that the day the pay-off for tolls had not yet begun to take out the cranes. That's it. The proceedings had not begun. That means it didn't work out. And that's it. And then it was done and at this point it's still happening. And there's no such thing as the plagiarism and the problems they cause. I think there are things that have happened... It's a reality, not even to get angry – it's a reality. Because I remember that when this happened, I went out to make a press wheel asking the State to start the process and had to make an emergency contract after September 1, precisely because I had not started the proceedings. That's not ideology; that's data. That's it, it's all right; another time they'll do better. The second question. There are a number of connections to the AP-7 that are essential to make and have long been a fan – that have not been made. For example, the N-II at Tordera-glasses, how many years has it been working? And this, for example, could have done and surely solved many accesses. And it would allow, in addition, to derive – because here from what is dealt with is to derive – vehicles from one reel to another to guarantee, therefore, to use the whole network, let's say, the way we have at certain times. Access to the C-60, the C-58 i of the C-16, yes, and also to the AP-7 i of the A-7. Also from Altafulla to Hospital and Child, yes, also. And that's a question that should have been anticipated a long time ago. We have laid them on the table; unscriptural, because I am not sure to hold it. But I put it on the table because it's a reality of things that would have been done, that years ago they would have been done, that they were compromised and that would lighten the situation. I, of course, also the third lane. I don't know why we didn't agree. So, the third lane too. And, therefore, they have to take measures of many kinds, I have told them. Some are these, but above all the use of all the road network in times of maximum tension, they are aware that collapsing or retaining always does not exist, because we... no one has lives permanently prepared to guarantee the passage of times of maximum influx of vehicles, it would be absurd; it would be to crush the territory, it would be a bogery. And what we have to do is manage those spaces that we have and all the infrastructure we have, and improve what we have. I want to say to you with all frankness: the measures we have taken seem to me that, look, they have almost been almost ready to recognize that they have been good. Costa, and I think you'll see, in the end you'll recognize him. But yes, I think they've had a good result, they've had a good result, they've been good. Does that mean there'll be no retention? Naturally there will be retentions, and especially at peak times, but we must be able to manage all the network we have, because in times of maximum tension, in times of maximum vehicle influx, we can manage and balance all our infrastructure. I just said yes, actually, public transport. Public transport is the best of ways, the best of solutions, the best of alternatives to retention. And it's especially... not so much, I insist, on outgoing operations and incoming operations, like especially in the day-to-day, on the retentions that are produced every day. And we can – you say you worked at Adif, and I'm done – put more vehicles or trains on the same road. But if the road is collapsing, and the road has problems of functioning, we can hardly get out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.269.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories belonging to Asco and Vandellòs]] [[300-00203/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories belonging to Asco and Vandellòs, which the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group has presented in order to advance, and has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.270.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Counsellor, Miri, this question that we present today revolves around a very concrete axis and four objectives that I will now degenerate from principles, and we think that it should not generate great disagreements between your government and the opinion that I will express today. Basically, our parliamentary group asks with this question and here, in its plenary, that this petition of the territory, the view of the territories of southern Catalonia, is being heard. And I set him four objectives or four principles through which I will degregate this inquiry. The first, which is destined for the regions of Ebre and Camp de Tarragona, which are those directly affected by nuclear infrastructure in Catalonia, fifty_percent of the resources of the deposit of nuclear power plants. According to the point: that before the end of the third quarter of 2022 – therefore, with some urgency – the regulation of the Nuclear Transition Fund is approved. The third point is that this regulation, which is the rule, has the right distribution criteria, and that I count on the opinion, with the gaze of all the agents of the territory for its management and its governance. The fourth and last point: that the Government of the Generality end with a historical hardship and that it pushes at once a plan of economic reactivation with calendars, with concrete investments for the regions of the Ebra and the Camp of Tarragona. We have these petitions because we are aware that Law 2/2021 of 29 December, on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures, establishes that the twenty per cent of the entries related to production activities, storage and transformation of nuclear power must be allocated to a fund for the socio-economic development and energy transition to the areas owned by the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs. It's about a fair energy transition. And that must be said that it seems to me as just as clearly insufficient. Because, look, the compromise and generosity of these territories I think we will all agree, the Members and Members of this Parliament, that with regard to the conjunction of Catalonia is out of all doubt. Nuclear energy has been irreplaceable for many years, unfortunately it's still today. I think your government is committed to the nuclear power plant's shutdown plan, but I have to tell you that this also implies a clear renewable boost, and at these times – at these times – in Catalonia the production of nuclear power is still fifty-five per cent. Therefore, we require an impulse so that we can complete this sealing plan. And who has not suffered the consequences, the negative externalities, the problems of living next to these nuclear power stations, it is obvious – obviously – that they are the most clean territories. And in these circumstances that I explain to him and that I frame the problem, it does not seem reasonable or just to us that the eighty per cent of the import recovered from these marxin activities or vanish to the rest of territories. We've defended it like PSC, but in fact, we're not the only ones. That fifty per cent of this nuclear fund of this tax is destined is a demand that surely has reached it, or has reached them of entities, democratic assemblies of the area, general institutions of the lands south of Catalonia. And, besides, this fifty per cent is not a demagic demand, out of measure, with political segell. Let's think, we're sure it's a demand, as the different agents that make it happen, that it's transversal, it's reasonable, it's rational, and it's more just. Even if we take into account that there has been, in this part of the country, an oblivion of investments, like at least the last two years. The Generalitat's investment in 2022 was intended to allocate only EUR 34 million; that is to say, EUR 175 per capita in mid-January. And this middle of this area of Catalonia remains very far from the Catalan middle of 194,58. And fixed that this difference is not subtle, it's a hard difference. I remind you, at this point, of the importance that these lands have accepted certain circumstances and infrastructures that, in the end and in the end, have allowed us to industrialize, grow and operate Catalonia as a whole. Because I repeat that until now, unfortunately, we have not been able to make this country function without nuclear energy. And the point that defines this most petition, in fact, is not so much territorial justice, all that I have insisted on, to be fair, but that, moreover, Catalonia has a new opportunity for the future, if we do things well on this issue: for one band, to recover the Government's investments of the Generality and to place them in the middle of Catalonia south of Catalonia, and, for the other, to push the investments with this fifty per cent of the Nuclear Transition Fund. Why? Especially because it's a good opportunity for Catalonia. Catalonia's connection depends on not moving it forward at two speeds, governing for everyone, and pushing plans for growth and industrialisation and progress across all territories. Or, if you let me say it with a euphemism, the Government of the Generality believes that it is aware that things could have been done much better over the last few years in this area of Catalonia. Therefore, these circumstances I believe require the Government of the Generality to take responsibility for these investments that these territories have demanded, I believe, in a fair and reasonable manner. And our group, I say, will be at the service of Catalonia, if this is a shared will for the Government of the Generality. In fact, I hope that after this inquiry, they reflect, and therefore see that this coming is neither just nor sufficient, and therefore we can agree this fifty_per_cent. If that's the case, they can count on our support. Moreover, here are European fund investments that will accompany all these transformation, growth projects. And it is true, too, and I only point out that I believe that it is the point of the inquiry where I have to say and the plenary where I have to do it, that if we want to do politics seriously and effectively, to discuss our commitments, to establish what is our response to the territories, we have to do it from here and giving response to Catalans and Catalans. And in other administrations and in other institutions, they'll talk about their responsibilities that they're close to. In short, Mr Torrent, to the Parliament of Catalonia, the citizenry he wants to know, what he wants to know is the answer of the Government of Catalonia. And in this case, the citizens of southern Catalonia want to know what their government's response is to respect the distribution of this fund. To be on the side of the municipalities close to the nuclear plants of Ascó and the Hospitallet-Vandellòs means, in short, to think also in infrastructures of these territories, in opportunities of development, and, in particular, in the possibilities of developing also the green hydrogen. Tivissa's node, in this sense, can be a key point, if we are capable of developing wind and photovoltaic energy enough, with ambition, precisely, to be able to hold this green hydrogen. The regions that have been so far, if I may say so, "nuclears in Catalonia can be key reference points for energy storage, because they already have effective transport lines to make their distribution. And, besides, the energetic tradition of these territories and the accumulated capital in knowledge, in workers and workers, make it possible to be these territories, precisely, spearhead in the green transformation that so much Catalonia needs, as the last known data a few days ago mark us on the position of Catalonia respect the production and the implementation of new power of renewable energies. Thus, on July 24, 2019, it did not have little importance, that the Rectorate of the University Rovira and Virgili spoke precisely of these comarques as the ‘green hydrogen valley. In short – and with this I end this first part – the lands of southern Catalonia have historical investments pending and a deficit in investments that is completely indisputable in the light of the data, even from the last assumption of 2022. They have been, also, exemplary territories in their commitment to Catalonia for growth and its opportunities and for its industrialisation. They have now placed a fair demand on the table, covering fifty per cent of the nuclear tax fund and the Government's commitment to reverse these few investments destined for these municipalities. The most important reason, however, to take advantage of it is that they have tradition, they have the ability to be spearhead in the industrial and energy transformation that all Catalonia needs. That's why he was talking to her about the opportunity of Catalonia. We ask, therefore, with this question to the Government of the Generality, that it should not be forgotten, that you do not listen to our parliamentary group, if you do not want, but rather to the voice of the territory, and that we continue to take advantage of this opportunity and to act with justice with the coffers that have supported the infrastructures of nuclear energy for so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.271.0	Then, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.272.0	Thank you, President. Well, honourable Member, I think it is very pertinent that we are debating this question, which is being asked today that the European Parliament was voting on green taxonomy with a result that we obviously do not like. We do not consider nuclear to be green energy, and that is why we voted accordingly in the European Parliament. And just a few kilometres away, we could say so, from the European Parliament, to the French National Assembly there was also a debate on the future of nuclear power. In short, Europe – and we too – is making at these moments debates not only about which energy model we want for our own years, but what consequences they have today and in the future each of the decisions we make in relation to the model we want. And we're what we're doing. From Catalonia, what we are doing is preparing the energy transition that allows us to place ourselves in this horizon of the future, taking into account what are the elements for which we need to age to the extent that we make this transition: some of an economic character – certainly – of other environmental character – is an obvious one – but also of a socio-laboral character. In any case, I make a quick rest of us, no matter where we go and why we've ended up planting and approving the Nuclear Transition Fund. From the start, respect the energy model, until now we traditionally had two vectors that we had to take into account: the price and the sub-administration. That's to say, we have energy and, at the same time, it was quite accessible, rather cheap, as we can access it mostly and in a democratic way. In the last few years we have incorporated the vector of sustainability. So now we don't just have to fix ourselves in the price, we don't just have to do that there's enough sub-administration, but, more than that, it has to be in a green energy mark. And, in addition, we have added, precisely, to sustainability, an element that we want for our country, that we want especially for our country, because in the previous energy paradigm a part of this country, the south, carried the costs, almost in its totality, of energy production for the rest of the country. Therefore, the new model in which we are going must not only be sustainable, but must be made with a fair transition, which means distributing to us the burdens, which means territorial distribution. And that's what the national pact for energy transition contemplates, that's what the climate change law is, which, moreover, is, concretely, unfolded with the Proencat, which precisely what it is that it's a scenario of society and a neutral economy, from a carbon point of view, 2050, and before – and now I enter – 2035, a denuclearized, nuclear-free energy society and model – 2035, February 35, with Vandellòs II's definite closure. And, before that, as I said before, we have to take into account the effort and generosity that a part of the territory has had towards the conjunction of the Principality, and return this generosity on the part of the Public Administration, because in this process, in this transition to the new scene, we do not lose it. And precisely because of that, last December, together with Councilwoman Jordan, we presented the Nuclear Transition Fund, to make this nuclear disconnection, effectively, leave no one behind, leave no territory on the margin, and we can do it in a fair way. A fund endowed with 24_million euros per year, which, if we multiply them until 2035, as at least, which is the date of closing of Vandellòs II, we are talking about 312_million euros; 312_million euros for doing what? To make socio-economic development actions, to make actions of just energy transition, and which will be directed to the affected areas, to the five most affected regions, we can say this, more directly linked to the generation of work places that, at these times, lend the two nuclear power stations; that is, the Priorat, the Lower Camp, the Upper Land, the Ebre River and the Lower Ebre River, where we have to compensate this average of three_ thousand direct work places. It is to say, as we say before, any decision in this area has some consequences that we need to know clearly. Thus, EUR 312 million up to 2035, at a rate of 24 per year. That, effectively, they will finance the twenty per cent of the revenues related to the nuclear energy production tax, as we proposed and approved the tax bill by 2022. Therefore, the December of the 21st we announced this foundation, which is already approved to the law of measures and that this 2023 can already be on the march. Who are the objects of this background? So facilitate the generation of alternative economic fabric that gives labor and wealth generation coverage to nuclear shutdown and promote territorial rebalancing. We are precisely here to generate this equality at the level of the conjunction of our geography, in this case, especially for what it gave before, for the effort and generosity that has been shown for so many years. And the intention is to finance strategic projects or to allocate these 24_million euros per year to feed lines and ordinary calls that wander in the line of energy transition, reindustrialisation – very important, and indeed, as the Councillor Elena said, we did not speak enough this morning – to feed the new technologies sector, strengthen the agri-food sector, finance responsible tourism projects and rural development. These are the six areas or the six foundational concepts that will be financed with this foundation. And who will decide the fund? So the territory, together with the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, obviously; but, basically, responsibility and opportunity collect from the agents of the territory. Precisely because of this is created a fund commission formed for the local authorities, that is to say, the Diputación de Tarragona; the regional councils of the five regions; the assemblies, through their mayors; the most representative employers of the country, in their territorial expression; the most represented unions also in the concrete territorial area; the trading chambers of Reus and Tortosa, and, obviously, the rest of the departments of the Generalitat de Catalunya that have some competence that, obviously, is related to this fund, as can be, in particular, the Department of Climate Action, with whom we presented the fund. We are preparing the rules of both the commission and the fund. Two meetings have already taken place, one in March – if I'm not mistaken, on March 3 – and one precisely today. Today itself is celebrating or having held this meeting with the agents of the territory precisely to finish drawing the regulation, which has to be operated at the end of the 23rd. But, beyond the fund committee, which is the one that must not define the big lines, the master lines where we must go from a territorial point of view, then there are the two executive commissions, which will only be the ones that will be able to carry out the projects, which will be old enough to achieve the objectives with which they have set themselves, and, above all, which will relate in a much more concrete way to the whole business, trade union, etcetera, of the territory. And the two executive commissions, of course, correspond to the two spheres, huh? : of one band, Ascó, and of the other, Vandellòs. In any case, as I said, the regulation will be agreed and will be at the third quarter of this year to deploy a fund that we want to start operating already from this year and to 2023 and until 2035, with these 312_million euros, a little more than 300_million euros, which is precisely the form that the State returns in relation to nuclear activity. The State, with its fiscal pressure on this activity, collects around 300_million euros annually; not 300 until 2035, like the Nuclear Transition Fund, but 300_million euros each year. How many – and with this I finish, and I am sure that we will have the opportunity to continue talking about it – to prepare the socio-economic transition of the territory? Zero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.273.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.274.0	Thank you, Mr. Torrent. He was already alienating me, taking advantage of the last minute, huh? , to make the speech of the heavyweights. And, therefore, I will begin here with a very clear question. In the five minutes that you are close to him, you, of course, and as it is obvious, will be able to degenerate and answer and value what seemed appropriate to him, but ask him to reserve thirty seconds, or so on, to answer a question that is very clear. You were talking about justice, you were talking about territories, and the question is: of this Catalan tax approved with full powers of the Government, a Catalan tax strictly, discussed, approved, as you say, with the accompanying law in this Parliament..., of this, and in the exercise of its responsibilities and powers..., you can commit, for criteria of fairness, reasonableness, fifty_percent of this tax which is all at its own competence, all at its own responsibility, to the lands of southern Tarragona, southern Catalonia? Yes or no? [[Some applause.]] It's fast response, 30 seconds. I mean, I mean, I mean, I really hope I'll reconsider this position, and they'll keep us on the side, I've said it from the beginning. You talk about justice, you talk about territories. From the territory they've already made it, and if there's been a meeting today, I'm sure they must have been transferred, because on the return of the public consultation prior to the elaboration of the Nuclear Transition Fund regulation, the Commonwealth – MIDIT, huh? – Initiatives for the Integral Development of the Territories of Vandellòs, the Hospitallet de l'Infant, Tivissa and Pratdip, clearly say and claim this fifty_per_cent. Therefore, if you have the criteria of fairness and listening to the territory as the main engines at the time of making this decision, I think you will have it clear. He was also talking about the business or the economic fabric. They must also have arrived – sure, because it was addressed precisely to their department – the proposal that the chamber of Reus makes respecting the OTEs, right? , these nuclear transition development offices..., energy and nuclear transition. Therefore, the territory is claiming it and asking for it. And if its criteria is to listen to the voice of the territory, I really hope I will reconsider it. Because every time you want to escape your responsibilities or omit or... I honestly think that they do leave behind, sometimes, of responsibilities that come close to them. I will, constructively, try to pose on the table and remember what with your skills you can do to govern this country. I think it's either the favor or the most important job or task I can do from my position. If you want to rule, you have many opportunities to do so and many skills to do so. You were talking about rebuilding and joining the nuclear shutdown plan in Catalonia, but this implies a very clear boost in renewable energies. And you talk a lot, and sometimes what they say doesn't sound bad, but it's that the advantage that we're dealing with is that it's measured in megawatts, and so it's either there or there isn't. And you can repeat until the satiety that you are making an energetic, fair, decentralized, green transition, and I don't know how many more adjectives, but the reality is that Catalonia is on its own in renewables, and that if it's been a long time since we've made twenty points of difference with the rest of Spain, this difference is growing. Therefore, if you really want to make a nuclear shutdown in Catalonia, it will take everyone there is a clear boost in renewable energies. Because, if not, look at the energy transition or the fem or we will do it; either we have a real model of renewables deployment of small, medium and large photovoltaic and wind farms in Catalonia, or we will have the country created by high voltage lines and nuclear power plants that are not capable of filling, so that they are not capable of facing the energy demand. So... I'd made some more notes, but I think it's clear about nuclear and important. We want to know and the territory wants to know what this government's commitment to the distribution of this nuclear source is. And they ask him to take into account this solidarity of these communities, which has served to give attention and coverage to the energy demand of Catalonia's industrialization. I think you're fair, I think you're reasonable, with that. I don't think it's political, I think it's a demand for just, coherent and reasonable territory. And we insist that I reconsider and reconsider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.275.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the word Business and Work Councilor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.276.0	The country, of course, has some horizons that they have to see and that they have a derivative, of course, in the nuclear field, but that place us in this green energy transition that we give to the principle. And if we have to quantify it... You were complaining: "It's a megawatt question; indeed, it's a megawatt question, and there's the compromise to make these twelve-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-ths of-thousand-thousand-th-thousand-th. In any case, on this occasion, for the middle is 2035, which is a date that we do not specify here in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is a date inspired by the State. And, therefore, the State, which is also aware, as we are, that this is an essential adventure for going to this scene... that, we insist, at the same time, has socio-economic consequences that must be resolved. The State must also be co-responsible, among other things because it has also been recapturing all these years these 300_million euros annually. And on the other hand, I'm trying to get the government to do it again, the government of the Catalonian Government to do it alone. In fact, you do something that is a classic of the opposition, which is to say: "As the government does a measure that we agree that it is fine, that it is necessary, that it is essential if we want to be fair to the territory, in accounts to say: "All right, we will help to claim to other administrations that they also feed this foundation," he says: "It's okay, but we should go more." I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there, I can go there. In fact, I ask him that he is committed, that his parliamentary group is committed to asking the deputies and deputies in Madrid, to asking his parliamentary group in Madrid, that he complains to the Government of the State that he brings in fifty per cent more, that it is claimed by the regional councils. You have been here repeatedly: "Listen to the territory. All right, so let's listen to the territory. What does the territory say? Among other things, he says that the State is committed to contributing 24 million more. Is it compromising, in Madrid, to claim from the Government of the State that it is making the effort that the Government of the Government of Catalonia is making to make this fair transition? If he compromises, he'll keep us at his side. And I am convinced that all Catalan Members in Madrid, as members of the next parliamentary group, will vote in favour of a measure that should help to be just and generous with a territory that has been there for many years. At the same time, what we are doing is, together, in agreement with the territory, with the five countries, the economic and social agents in the field, defining which are the projects that seem to us, among all, to be strategic in not only replacing the jobs that could potentially be lost with the nuclear shutdown, but also in providing guarantees of the future in a new energy and a new product model, which is what we want for our country. Why don't we forget it – we've talked a lot about resources, and it's important, obviously –: what are these resources to serve for? – and that's why you didn't really talk about it, Congresswoman. To define future growth strategies, to define strategies that allow the development of the territory. And that's what it's about. And the financing is, there are these 24_million euros; so much good can be doubled with the state's contribution, so much good can be 48 every year, which is what the local councils claim. But in short, what these moneys are to be used for is – and, I insist, we do not lose sight of it – to help, in order to set up projects that serve for the growth and repositioning of the territory. And then the resources will be there; not only the resources, but the commitment of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. As we have shown, for example, with Kronospan's investment in Hebrew Lands, the most important reversal of the recent history of the Jewish Lands and which exemplifies how we are working for the country's reindustrialisation in a _marc of renewable energies, in a_marc of green energy and in a_marc of the just transition that is deserved by the inhabitants of the Jewish Lands, in the south of the country, who have carried for all these years with responsibility and the charges of producing the energy that we have consumed the rest of the country. Now they deserve – which is what we are doing to the Government of the Government of Catalonia – the effort by the Government of the country to correspond to this effort during all these years, which is precisely, I insist, what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.277.0	Let us therefore move on to the next item on the agenda, the question to the Government on the university system, which was presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Asking the Government about the university system]] [[300-00205/13]] And you have the word, to give us the presentation, Mr. Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.278.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Honourable councillor, deputies, deputies; councillor Torrent, who leaves us... [[Rialles.]] Well, a little humor, 'cause it's the last of the day and I guess we're tired. Let's talk about LOSU, the organic law of the university system, with Consteller Geis. I don't mean that when in Catalonia – and especially those of us who want a country like this – we hear about an organic law, we're already shaking, huh? An organic law that comes back to us, so try to affect even all the issues in which we have our own competitions, like the university system, huh? But now the State appears with an LOSU, an organic law of the university system, which tries to do what is said to be popularly "uniformize," "recentralize – a little bit of coffee for everyone, huh? –, to equate the system of the Spanish State equally, when the reality of the different regions is different and the reality of Catalonia is still more different, eh? We, with the vocation of being a state, have an internationally recognized university system, with a model suitable for personnel contracting, a model suitable for investigation; a model, therefore, that has deserved, as I will explain, recognitions at international level not only in the countries, but also in the capacity for fund-raising or in the forms of university transfer, eh? Beyond the university, the research and transfer of this knowledge to the economic system, the business system, which is one of the facts that allows universities to return to society to what is inverted. This LOSU, which just a few days ago the new Minister of Universities, in Subirats, again presented, after the LOSU that presented the former Minister Castells the August of 2021, therefore, tries..., or has made it see that it has reformed or retouched some of the things..., that the former LOSU of Minister Castells seemed that it was not accepted. In fact, the LOSU of the past year awakened, both at the level of social councils and unions, as of students, as of rectors, as of the university system, forces reticence in this sense. In fact, it was said at the time in his parliamentary office. In an interview with former Councillor Tremosa, of Enterprise and Universities, the answer of Consteller Geis says: "It is a draft law drafted in the four pairs of a ministry that has not looked at the attention of all and each of the agents that conform the university system. That LOSU of 2021, in fact, was clearly, as I said before, homogenizing, uniforming and re-entering, huh? , like many of the actions the State is trying to make. In October, the deputy Tremosa warned, for which he made the policy of human resources provided by the LOSU, contràrily..., different from the policy of human resources of the Catalan system, he also standardized a model of university, when here he is co-located with professional universities, with universities more of teaching, especially those that make reference to applied laws. The LOSU, in fact, did not solve the structural deficit that the system has at the level of the State, but it also watered down the Catalan system. And it was also regulatory for what it does to finance; finance that after it collects on the Catalonian Generality as competition, but after it does not see accompanied by the increase of financing. In fact, in a state that we have seen that the military expenditure more than doubles the expenditure in education and universities or that is now announced..., today, today or yesterday, therefore, a credit of 1,000_million euros in military expenditure..., on the other hand, is presented an LOSU but no one makes forecasts of which will be the largest expense or major investment that should be made in university systems. As we said before, the LOSU that had presented itself was excessively thorough and regulatory, and the system that was pro-Catalogue was not recognized. At that time, Constable Geis said that she was in contact with Minister Castells to try, therefore, with the most open, with the most extended, avoiding and even presenting a motion to Parliament in this sense..., trying to negotiate that the LOSU that is finally processed could incorporate these concerns that had been expressed here in her parliament. The LOSU that has presented a few weeks ago the new minister Subirats we do not see that supposes no substantial changes respect that of the August of the past year, and we do not see that there are incorporated neither the allegations that have presented themselves nor the concerns expressed for our council of universities. In fact, as I said before, the Catalan system is much more robust than other systems. As I said before, we have recognized universities in the ranks of the world's best universities; we have sixty-one research centres, thirty-three science and technology parks, thirty-thousand researchers who contribute to a five-year position of European research, or thus, as I said, over the contribution of GDP from European foundations. Or, for example, in the Next Generation Foundations, twenty-seven projects are also led by Catalan universities. Therefore, we have a system of excellence that we do not see recognized in this organic law that seeks to homogenize the university system. We, as we say, defend a model that is close to the state. And it is understood that the university system and the research and transfer system are part of what we have in state structures, and therefore we think that we should not be submissive to these uniforming organic laws. We thought more, in any case, of a reform that would have to be structural, that you thought at the university at fifteen, at twenty years of age, and that it was an ambitious, modern and flexible tool, and that it was not a tool, as we say, recentizing and uniforming. As we said before, even at that time, in October, the Geis councillor, therefore, had expectations in meetings and contacts with the Ministry of Universities, but now we see that this has not been reflected, with the new minister or with the new OSU. Therefore, the question to Consteller Geis is... what do you think and how is this new version of the LOSU that has been presented at this time, what impact it can have on the Catalan university system and what point do you find the conversations with the new Minister Subirats to try to reverse this situation, and what impact it would have on our system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.279.0	The word has the Research and University Advisor, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.280.0	Good night. I have that feeling of making the last class of the day, of the last hour, but I will try to seduce on a subject that I know is absolutely..., well, let's say, very concrete, but that I do care very much – I do care very much. The truth is that today, here, is the first day that I will make public positioning respect the LOSU. And I want to do it in his parliamentary office, because I think he's close. We have not explained it, nor have we given much detail at the level of communication means, but we are doing it here, in the Chamber of Parliament, in the Parliament of Catalonia. Is this law transcendent? Yeah, yeah, it is. There have only been two laws in the university sphere: the University Reform Act of 1983 and the Organic University Law of 2001. And, therefore, they are laws that have a recourse of twenty years, and, therefore, they are laws that condition the present and future development of the university system. LOSU is a regulation that impacts and will impact on the present and future of the Catalan university system. And that the LOSU limits, restricts or coerces the ambition and strategy of the Catalan university system will be a step backwards, a bad news. The Catalan system was born with its own vision and a look at Europe, and this vision does not fit into the Spanish university system, when it refers to its functioning, its skills or its structure. I believe that the singularity of the Catalan university system can only develop with a favourable state. And the funding system of the university system can only provide the funding that it really needs and deserves the power of the country's knowledge system with a suitable state. But this impacts her, and it impacts her a lot. And now what we're doing... and we're explaining, with responsibility and transparency, what we care about this law. First, I think it explains very well how the laws are done by the Spanish government. If you go to the web page – you can consult with your computers – you will find the pre-project and a standard impact memory. All right, all right, Four thoughts. The first: this law defends a unique model of university. What do you mean? Listen, there are intensive universities in research in Europe, but there are also intensive universities in transference or applied sciences and intensive universities in teaching. So LOSU only establishes a unique model of university, which is the only model of research intensive. We would like the LOSU to make these lives so that they can continue, the universities, specialising in the way the universities of Europe do. Second: lack of vision in university governance. The Catalan university system has staff, working teachers and civil servants. Why can't a woman professor work at a public university and I have to be an official professor? That's enough. The working staff of the Catalan university system must also be able to be rector or rector of a university. This... in this sense, is still thinking about this functional model of Spanish universities. Three: Minister Subirats' LSU is a uniformer and violates university autonomy. The LOSU sets up identical platforms for all autonomous communities, independent of the policies they have applied and the evaluation of their results. I'll explain a few examples. The development of a permanent work route together with the official one. That is to say, in Catalonia we have the development of a work route that has worked, and therefore we need to continue to develop this work route with autonomy, with singularity. And this law doesn't allow it. Why? Because it's more hanging from the Spanish functional system. Second, it limits the academic model that is structured into degrees, doctorates and masters. Why does the LOSU not allow Catalan universities to continue making degrees of one hundred and forty credits, as is the case in Europe? Why couldn't you leave this route open to the degrees of one hundred and forty credits as there is in Europe? LOSU won't allow it either. Third – and the one that worries me most –: when a law is approved – and some of us have manifested ourselves, when the Bolonya plan was approved – the most important is that it applies, which is applicable. And I ask myself: the LOSU, who pays it? Who pays the LOSU? Because the Spanish government legislates, but who will end up paying us. What is the economic impact of LOSU? We don't know, the ministry didn't do it – it didn't do it. Moreover, to the law itself and to the impact it says that it must be the autonomous government that makes the economic valuation of the impact of the LOSU. It seemed to me to be an absolute institutional disloyalty. You can't approve a text of a law without an economic impact – you can't approve the text of a law without an economic impact – because then you're playing with its applicability. And I know that what I'm saying is controversial, say it politically, but from the responsibility I'm close to as the Research and University Advisor I have to say that there is no economic value to the impact of LOSU. And we will not play to give support to a law that we don't know can be applied, and we will think of each of the vice-rectors and applicators of that law that will have difficulties every day in their application. But we have done our dues. Because the Spanish government is this: "I read it and you pay. They must be concerned about the transfer of scholarships; they must be managing the transfer of scholarships, so they have not made economic value. They must be concerned about the execution of the presupposition. They must be concerned about the defense investment, because I see the minister also the defense. But we have made this economic assessment, and I say to them: the U.S. will assume for the Government of the Government of Catalonia as at least €67 million. Who do I pay? It's very easy to talk about precariousness and plans and get well in communication media. It's very easy, but then who has to apply it is the Government of the Generality, and this law was accompanied... without an economic valuation plan. And that's called bad regulation. And that's what's called institutional complacency. And that's saying don't think about the vice-rectors and vice-rectors who have to sign this law's contracts. And we can't afford that. Thus, from the outset, the LOSU is worth 67 million euros. Who do I pay? I haven't seen any information respect this. We want to increase the economic endowment in infrastructure. We want to work for the generational relay. And, in fact, we have already worked in a consensual way on a day on how to improve and retain talent and take effective and applicable measures from the Government of the Generality to end labor insecurity on the very next year. And we're working on a joint plan and we'll approve it, but it's applicable. I will not come here to approve plans – nor have I made it this year – without any presuppositional endowment at the side and without any realization. And this is the reality of LOSU: how is it paid? And it's disloyal that the Government of the Generality should pay for it, without an application and an economic valuation. And why? So, of course, we're lowering the dedication of various faculty figures, which we might agree with, but we'll have to make up for it with other teachers' contracts. How do you pay for this? And I ask myself: to a teacher who, for example, is advertiser of an agency, who is autonomous, who is interested in being indefinite of a university? What interests us is that false associates stop being false associates, have better working conditions. That's what we care about. Because the associate professorship is the one that for her expert comes in and out of college, and she has to pay it better. And as long as we are – and as long as we are – we are all members of departments and professors enter and depart – associate professors. What we need to avoid is that there are people who do the doctoral thesis feel false associates. We do need to avoid this – yes, we do. And one measure is to remove the repositioning rate, which I have not seen here that you have no change, in the repositioning rate. Therefore, holding the media is very nice, and we share them, but there must be economic endowment behind or talking about it... or, as a matter of fact, that the ministry sends a simple economic appreciation of the LOSU, because, if not, it is institutional disloyalty, and we will not play it. And I know that this speech I make here today is not easy, but it is my responsibility to say that an LOSU and a university law as was the Bolonya plaza..., it had to be applicable and it had to go with presuppositional endowment, because, if there is no presuppositional endowment, we are talking about toast to the sun. Set up associates, oh, of course we want, and we'll work on the year you see. We'll work on the assumptions, and we're working with all the universities. And as long as we work on it. And as long as we take the seats we can. And as long as we do. And we'll work for Chapter 1. And we're working, but we're not gonna make a deal or promise a deal that we can't make a deal. And that's what we did this past year. This law is in parliamentary proceedings, and you have the opportunity to enrich everything that we are preparing with these items, from the will of listening. And I didn't enter a young man's seat... we didn't present a young man's seat in the previous inquiry; all my heart, but in labor reform the Spanish government ended up buying and approving to the law of science the measures we provided from the Department of Research and Universities. They criticized us, but they were finally approved, because we led them from here, because you know, university managers, who are the right applicator of each case. Therefore, we are compromised with the stability of the staff, but we are also compromised to talk, from the responsibility and from the realization, that the measures must be accompanied by funding. And that's what we're committed to and we're open to further negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-06-3501.281.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
