ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Ask the Government about the miscarriage of public money in subsidies to communication media]] [[310-00272/13]] And we do this with questions to the Government : it asks the Government to answer orally in full about the maladministration of public money in subsidies to communication media. The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.2.0	Yeah. Counselor, how long do you plan to throw money away from Catalans to buy media?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.3.0	To answer, you have the word "Madam Vilagrà", the adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.4.0	Good morning, President. Mr. Congressman, we don't spoil a single euro in communication media. In fact, what we do is invest 17.4 million euros in different calls to promote plural media and in catalá. For this reason, what we do is to invest, and very well, Catalan and Catalan money.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.5.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.6.0	Look, Mrs. Counselor, the Generalitat keeps an expenditure of 250_million in public media of the corporation. The Generalitat devotes about 35_million to institutional propaganda in the media, and water with money from all Catalans more than one hundred_five hundred portals that, incidentally, most are of separatist and progressive tendency. That is, the Councillor d'Economia de Junts and the Councillor d'Esquerra, of Presidència, use the institutions to buy wills in the service of their cause. Examples.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Institutional advertising: Grupo Godó, La Vanguardia, RAC1, Mundo Deportivo, more than 6_million_de_euros. Iberian Press: The Newspaper, Sport, 2,7_million. Ara, 1.7; Grup El Punt, 700.000_euros; El Nacional, 500,000_euros. Written press grants, e.g.: El Punt, 586,000_euros; La Vanguardia, 510,000_euros; Ara, 380,000_euros; El Periódico de Catalunya, 250,000_euros. And so many other media, television and radio, in local media. You finance the media to implement principles of totalitarian regimes. First principle, simplification and a single enemy: individualizing the adversary into a single enemy, the State, Spain. Orquestation principle: if a lie is repeated a thousand times it can become truth – for example, "Spanish steals from us, when the one who really steals from us is the Generalitat. Principle of transposition: if they cannot deny the bad news, they invent others that distract them – for example, espionages to cover up the social, economic and security crisis that our region is experiencing because of its mismanagement. Fourth, principle of silence: silence the opponent – in this case, they do so with VOX, with the help of media that have previously watered with money from all Catalans. Separatism, instead of lowering taxes on workers or allocating more resources to urgent social issues, finances public and private media, allocating more than 300_million_de_euro. And I come to a conclusion: either the Catalan media are very bad and they need public funding, resources from everyone in order to survive, or you want to manipulate them. And I take the second option: you want to have the media controlled and purchased, because you are totalitarian. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.7.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.8.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, respect the communication media, I understand them, to you. They have a dream, which is to return to the age of the Node: a channel, in white and black, still well controlled, and, thus, quiet and no problem. But in any case, what the Catalan Government is doing is allocating resources to promote plurality. I understand that there are costs, the concept, but in any case, it is an important value for us. Why? So to help maintain a few minimum of material conditions, to encourage important technological changes in the sector, to fight against misinformation, fake news, to avoid the uniformity that they so much like to the extreme right... And, in fact, Catalonia counts on a private sector of communication in Catalan and Occitan language that is solid, entrepreneurial, and that we want to preserve. This sector contributes, day by day, to the construction of a catal communication space. And, also, it's in a situation, so it's competitively disadvantaged, with some fever, because, compared to other media in other languages, it has a much smaller market, and that's it. And what you foresee, in fact, our legislation is just being able to encourage and support media in Catalan and Arane language. That's why the Presidency Department has allocated seven lines of help, of these 17.4 million euros, to paper editions, to publications, to digital editions of private ownership, to television, to radio, to projects of entities to help the technological transition. And these help what they do is chase, reinforce these media projects, but also create occupation. And you know what the best news is? Let them follow him, let them not stop doing it. That we want these communication media in catalá, so they still feel important to our economy, that we want them to continue creating public added value. And what's more important: we do this because they are important to our culture and, above all, to our language. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.9.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the position of Catalonia in the conjunct of the Spanish economy. [[Ask the Government about the position of Catalonia in the conjunct of the Spanish economy]] [[310-00277/13]] The question is posed by Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.10.0	Yes; thank you, President – or should I say "your excellence?" – for granting me the grace to speak in this chamber that you consider yours, with your omnimod and absolute powers. I thank you for your generosity in letting me speak in this chamber. [[Widow's remorse.]] That said, Mr. Giró, you said..., said you, Mr. Giró, last week, to the Circle of Economy, that we must donate administrative facilities and we must seek an attractive and stimulating environment to investors, entrepreneurs and researchers from all over the world. Mr. Giró, I believe that the problem that Catalonia has and fundamentally Catalan politics is something that Bertrand Russell said, that is that humanity has a double moral: one that is preaching and is not practicing, and another that is practicing but is not preaching. You practice everything that you don't preach and don't preach what you practice. The truth is that, with its fiscal policy, what is being done is to harm Catalonia's material interests in a way. They are harming entrepreneurs, they are harming entrepreneurs, they are harming working families. And, ultimately, they are damaging Catalonia's economic progress. I would like to say, Mr Giró, that you have challenged me, with your answer, what you are doing to create precisely a climate to encourage this enterprise, this entrepreneurial character of the Catalan society; to encourage, in short, the growth of the Catalan economy. The truth is that the fact that Catalonia is the autonomous community less competitive fiscally, as in Catalonia, worries me enormously. The Community of Madrid is the most competitive tax community, and our community, Catalonia, is the least competitive tax community. Do you think, Counselor, that this is Spain's fault, that this is the fault of the rest of the autonomous communities, or do you, as the Counselor of Economy, have any responsibility? Do you believe that the Government of the Generality has some responsibility, is it responsible for this, that it puts us precisely as the last autonomous community in terms of fiscal competitiveness? I believe, Mr. Counselor, that we are left with cophoism and lack more self-criticism. We lack self-criticism to make Catalonia the locomotive of Spain, to make Catalonia not only a land of entanglement, but also a dynamic economy, an economy that brings investors from the conjunct of Spain and the rest of the world. I, in short, to re-place Catalonia at the forefront of Espanya. And that, Counselor, is not the responsibility of the Madrid Government, but its own. And, Mrs. Borràs, let me remind you that the Catalan Countries do not exist. Thank you, Mrs. Borrás; thank you, Mr. Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.11.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Martín Blanco, you asked me about the position of Catalonia among the Spanish economy. I believe that the most important thing for us is the situation of the Catalan economy. And the situation of the Catalan economy I've been telling you since then that it's good – it's good. And if you ask me about the comparison of the Catalan economy with that of other territories of the State, I will tell you that it is very good, and that, comparatively, the data are unappealable. The Catalan economy is growing systematically more than the Spanish medium. There's less time for the Spanish midjana. Exports have to tell you that they go like a coet, and the creation of new businesses and start-ups, too. So... If you have worked hard and are conscious, you will surely find some indicator in which Catalonia is not in the best position. But this, Mr. Martín Blanco, is said..., is what statisticians say in cherry picking, the fallacy of incomplete proof. And I recommend that you don't use it, because among economists it's not well seen. I'll also tell him that, listen, he opened the ISE fire yesterday. Do you think...? As you well know, listen, it's a fire that was in Amsterdam, that's as important as Mobile and that's now in Barcelona, that's in Catalonia. You think they're wrong? You think they're wrong? That Mr. Michael Blackman was wrong, carrying this very important fir to Barcelona, Catalonia? Do you think that the decay you claim will pass, Mr. Blackman, to him and to all the thousands of visitors who are visiting her right now? Is this decadence going to be over, all of them? Look, Mr. Martín Blanco, you are a group that looks like what's said one-hit wonder, the groups that only have a success, and that's why they're ephemeral. Its success is that the Catalan economy has gone very badly, that we are in the midst of decay, and the reality..., I feel it, but it does not confirm it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.13.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the urban planning board of economic activity on the plateau of the Alt Camp. [[Ask the Government about the urban planning plan of economic activity of the plana de l'Alt Camp]] [[310-00274/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President Puigneró. At the end of last March, you were at Vila-Rodona, at the Alt Camp, to present the urban planning board of economic activity of the plane of the Alt Camp. A pla director who has a strong influence on the region: we speak of 3,700 hectares, of which 835 have economic and industrial uses, and which are distributed among the municipalities of Alió, the Pla de Santa Maria, Valls and Vila-Rodona. What do you intend to do with the department that encapsulates it, and, therefore, the Government of the Generality, for the development of this plan director of the Alta Camp plane?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.15.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.16.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, one of the objectives of this government is to generate new industrial, logistical, economic activity across the country. We're doing it, and we've been doing this legislature in the area of Lleida - Torreblanca, the conca d'Odena, Gran Via Sud... And we also want to do it at the High Camp. And that's why we're talking, obviously, with the gatherings, because we, above all, who... when we plant these types of initiatives, we do it by listening to the territory, to see what is the best, specific solution, for that region in each of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.17.0	To answer the question, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.18.0	Vice-President, as I said before, the urban director has a strong impact on the High Camp and has received a different response according to the municipalities affected. There has been a great revival in Valls and Pla de Santa Maria, and it seems that it is different from Alião and Vila-Rodona. In fact, his department already drafted a PDU in 2019 that was limited to these two municipalities, but after the governments of Valls and Pla de Santa Maria wanted to be part of this PDU and asked them to have no effect in order to extend it to the four municipalities. But now, one year before the municipal elections and before the citizen protest, Valls and the Pla de Santa Maria have decided to say goodbye. We're worried about what you just answered, Vice President. And, besides, that contradicts what was said from the territories. Ever since the government delegation, he's been told he'd retire, this board of directors, and that's what we're worried about. So, what are you going to do, Vice President? Can I assure you that the PDU on the Alta Camp plane will not be executed? Will it return to the pre-project of 2019 only for two municipalities of the region? Or will the resignation of the Alta Camp plan project only be until the municipal elections pass? Because, for what you said, we're afraid he's going this way. Let's hope they don't seek election tactics in front of these municipalities. People living in the affected areas certainly need, Vice-President. Because we are not only talking about farmland on the farm, but also; we are not just talking about the fields that give shelter to this agricultural activity and which, moreover, allow people to enjoy this around them who are owned by them; we are talking about people affected by this area in Valls and the Pla de Santa Maria who can lose their usual lives. We're talking about four hundred people. Vice President, can you imagine the anxiety with which these people see, that one day for another they see how it is put in their house? Therefore, we ask for clarity and security, both for the joints and, above all, for people who are not directly affected. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.19.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.20.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Actually, what we're not going to do is push urban management plans like this to the corners of the territory. We have never done this before, and we are, of course, always trying to reach consensus on the solutions. It seems to us that today generating industrial and logistics alone for the country is important. I always say that the best social policy that we can do for our citizens is that they have work, that they can come businesses. And we have to do this, obviously, always in contact with the territory. Look, what we're going to do at the High Camp specifically, which you've said very well..., we're talking about a PDU of 3,746 hectares, which was raised there. Fifty_per_cent was, of course, dedicated to protecting the area environmentally, and also landscapely, and another fifty_per_cent, destined for industrial plots, and a very important part, to large plots, which we lack, in this country – we lack very large plots, when we have investments of large enterprises. So, what we're going to do, in this case, is move from urban planning of the four municipalities to individual planning of this PDU. This means that with Vila-Rodona and Alió we will start processing a specific PDU in this concrete environment. And, for what he does to Valls and the Pla de Santa Maria, we will continue the conversations to see which is the best way to be able to do concrete actions to make it possible that in this area there may have been economic activity from the perspective of generation of solo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.21.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the compensation for the squadron moves that the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks of August 17 and 18, 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils. [[Ask the Government about compensation for the squadron movements that killed the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks of August 17 and 18, 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils]] [[310-00275/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ramon Espadaler, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.22.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, a week ago we knew very little, through the communication media, with perplexity – I think that not only from our group, but also with general perplexity – that the four agents who shot down the terrorists who terrorized the cities of Barcelona and Cambrils on August 17 had filed a lawsuit with the courts against the Department of Interior after the "shut up for reply", a silence denied in a lawsuit that had been made, a complaint that had been made to their own department since the month of December. In three months, the department had not even answered them, which led them to this situation. It is worth saying that the performance of these four squad movements was clearly assessed for the proprio mossos d'Esquadra, for the sake of justice, also for this chamber– in the investigation committee of the storms–, and it was concluded that it had been correct, that it had obviously been adjusted to the law. And it was also concluded that the psychological sequelae that had remained in these people to carry out their work responsibly were certainly severe. On the other hand, these four agents were declared victims of terrorism by the Ministry of the Interior, and, in the case of one of them..., has rejected permanent incapacity, coupled with the severe psychological consequences of an act of service as they did. Therefore, it is very costly to hear, honourable counselor, this silence of the department; when they had proposed or made this demand internally, without making any noise, that at the end of three months they did not say any response, that they were called here. The question is why, why have we treated these agents precisely in a moment... You didn't do much to announce – last week – the creation of a foundation also to support the move. The same Director General of the Police had announced, therefore, that he is a rescabalarian, that he would do actions to attend to the damages in service. And we ask ourselves why, why this silence for an answer. Miri, Umberto Eco said the real hero is always involuntarily. He says: "Surely his dream is to be an honest coward like all the others. Most likely none of these four agents was a hero, but all four of them were honest and valiant at the time of defending us, and they brought us a tranquillity, a tranquillity that they do not now have for this act that they did. And I think they deserve our respect, the consideration... (The president removes the use of the microphone to the orator and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.23.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.24.0	President, Members, Members... I want to begin by putting into value, effectively, the actions that have prevented major evils and given tranquillity and security to the citizenry; also the awareness that we have from the department – and I believe that of all of us here – of the harshness of the moment that they lived and of the consequences that they also suffered, of traumatic character, because, sense of doubt, it is also a traumatic fact for them. No one escapes that after August 17 many things happened. And it is true that in the body and department, in those first months – we are talking about November, December of the 18th: the 155th, the difficulties in the Sea of Mossos d'Esquadra... –, it was not at that time to accompany those people – I had the opportunity to talk to them –, to take care of them. It is also true that at the mid-19th century he commissioned a concrete command to follow up all the work that is done, follow up and advise and accompany people, both legal and psychological. In fact, the chief executive officer of the police escorted them to court, the days they went to testify. A server also had the opportunity to talk to them. The commissioner in chief, the director general, on repeated occasions have been decorated. And the person, indeed, who has an injury, who suffered an injury that caused him disability, has also had one of the decorations with economic consequences of retribution to him. He also worked with them to relocate those who continue in the spaces and in the places they considered most appropriate, most necessary for their professional development. In fact, they filed a claim for compensation on the ground that they failed to do so. This is a slow procedure. It's not a denial silence; the answer hasn't been given yet, and so it's not locked. And in the terms of these times the deadline has begun to be able to file a claim and they have decided to do so, legitimately, but this does not mean that since the department is given per seal, this demand for administrative compensation. And, therefore, the procedures continue. Believe 'that they are not easy or quick, because the amounts are remarkable... (The president removes the microphone's use from the interior advisor and this one continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.25.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the waiting lists in the public health system]] [[310-00276/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the waiting lists in the public health system. The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. He makes a couple of diumenges, in a diary, pictures of brave women but outraged us. They were images of women between three and five years old waiting for a reconstruction of pit after having suffered a breast cancer. Express, with your image, the pain added to the cancer. They do it very quickly, but once and for all, what they want is a solution and find answers in our health care system. And these images are also the complaint of the 171,409 people who are pending surgery. And we can't quantify the name of citizens who expect to enter a waiting list. We have the "honour of being one of the autonomous communities with the most list of hope in surgical interventions from all over the State". Look, putting down a date is important; guarantee it, even more, for much said the care director of CatSalut. Because, if it's not complete, it's required, so as not to leave patients living the anguish of not knowing. Counselor, do you intend to approach the waiting lists? Is he going to do a shambles? And, finally, counselor, do we set up a waiting time guarantee no more than six months for women waiting for reconstruction after a breast cancer trauma? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.27.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.28.0	President, MP Escarp, MPs, MPs... During the pandemic – and we were explaining this – there was an underdiagnostic, clearly, that all this would lead us to an increase in the waiting lists. And that's also what you've seen with the data that you've seen, so, published from around the state. We have to act. We will. We're acting. And from this point of view, I'll give you some detail that's much more specific to my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.29.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.30.0	You were right to know; but, in any case, the data... No, I won't talk to you about the data, because, you know, Catalonia – and I think it's worth knowing – since 2018 you're at the top of the autonomous communities. So, it's not the pandemic, huh? Go from the moon. But I'd like to..., not so much to talk about data; I'd like to talk about the effects of not being attached. Waiting too long for specialized attention has risks for health. Says Esther, one of these women: "Abandoned, that's how I feel, when I've been waiting for my mother's reconstruction for five years. At some point, with all these measures that you will now explain to me, do you think of the patient's insecurity? Do you think of the trauma and emotional uncertainty of the personal and family repercussions of a long wait to be diagnosed? Do you know what I liked to hear from you? That we can tell these women with whom I have begun my intervention that their courage has not been in vain, that we will ensure that in six months, as it is in other European countries, we can address their lists of hope, and therefore rebuild them. And do you know what I liked to hear from you, among other things? So you're about to make a decree of accessibility or a platter of hope lists. But above all I also liked to be told if they think to approach the genera they also... (The president removes the use of the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.31.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]] To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.32.0	As you said very well, Mrs. Escarp, the waiting lists come from far away. I've also left a space for the replica, because obviously I'm very aware that a woman who's been removed by a pit, or both pits, and on occasions also in a preventive way..., this has a very, very important psychological trauma, very important. And that's very clear, and the quality of life, too. I also know that there are other black spots, like, for example, the rachis. And from this point of view, what I will tell you is that this year, 2022, we will address these two problems in a very determined way. Clearly. And I also explained, here, that we will devote 160 million of our assumptions to being able to do these actions, that at these times we believe they are priorities. Certainly, also – and so we have to explain – the vast majority of procedures are between the guarantee terms. That's also true. We have a noranta-set_per_cent, noranta-vuit_per_cent, in cancer; a noranta-set_per_cent in cardiac surgery; a practically eighty-vuit_per_cent in which reference procedures are set. But also here what I wouldn't want to do – and I honestly say so, huh? – it's getting into whether we're the community of more or less... I don't really care about the renditions. And I'm concerned relatively little because, if I look at the data from the Ministry of Health, I'll see that we have 629,000 surgical interventions. And I put it in two proper autonomous communities, clean in terms of population: Andalusia – 1_million plus –, 382,000 surgical interventions; Madrid, 386,000 – 1_million minus, certainly. But it turns out we have more waiting lists for a thousand people. That doesn't add up. Therefore, the fact of being in front, in the middle or behind, to me – and I sincerely say it – worries me very little, because the data are not reliable. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.33.0	Ask the Government to answer in full orally about the events in Bàscara, to the High Empordà. [[Ask the Government about events in Bàscara (Alt Empordà)]] [[310-00278/13]] The question is put by Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.34.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. This weekend the apprentices of Puigdemont in Bàscara, Girona, decided to self-proclaim independent territory. I would like to know what the Government's opinion is, and whether you intend to support them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.35.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.36.0	I understand that there is some concern that has not been made explicit by the violation of the fundamental rights. We're also worried, but we're worried that maybe we don't even agree on what kind of rights we're talking about, that they've been..., phoneous rights that have been violated. And we are also concerned about his interference with rights, as we have seen these past weeks, when the right to privacy, the right to privacy, the right to secrecy of communications, and the position of his parliamentary group has left much to be desired. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.37.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.38.0	Yes, thank you. Look, Puigdemont and Junqueras, pioneers of delirium, followed by Torra, the « roadblocks, seem to have sat chair, and this weekend in Bàscara have declared a DUI, an imaginary unilateral declaration, although I must admit that there, in Bàscara, they have perfected the matter. For starters, it has lasted more than eight seconds, which is already an achievement. It seems that the "indepe" cast goes from the eight seconds to the eight days of Sastre i Furriols, which came very high with the hunger strike, until they saw that the matter was going on. Look, counselor, I've seen intermittent fast diets that last longer than their patriotic cast. There Torra was a little smarter; he gave them the support, but without stopping eating, which, hey, one is very of the earth, but when the time of the Bollycao comes the thing gets more serious. It is true that in Bàscara they have given free rein to their passions. They even had a coin of their own, Cat. It is evident that couples and summer sparrows have made molasses in some. And, of course, if you all dedicated your imagination to doing useful things, in Catalonia we would do much better. But not, as always, separatism puts its commitment to the same, in which we are put in the rest of the world on the map, but always for bad things; sometimes more tragic and sometimes more comical, but always to the detriment of our image. In this simulation of the imaginary republic, you have left in writing that the only official language will be Catalan and that Spanish interests will be expelled. Look, Bàscara is just a sample of what would happen if you guys got away with it. The first thing these apparent defenders of freedom did was to set up a border crossing, which I also tell you to set up a Charlie checkpoint, as in the cold war, when we know those Puigdemont negotiations with Putin, it does not seem to me to be a good idea, and neither does it go in favour of our international prestige, but it is so that you are. You don't care what image we project. You want a divided Catalonia, fractured, a Catalonia with barriers, literally, because that is precisely what separatism seeks: to raise borders between compatriots.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.39.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.40.0	It's what I was afraid of: that when they talk about speech rights and they sweep it with Bollycaos, so it costs a lot to take 'hosesfully'. [[Greetings.]] It's not a waste. And what gave of the lack of coincidence in the appreciation of the violation of rights: any group has the whole right of the world to set up a vindication campaign, because it forms part of the right of protest, of the right of assembly, of the right of freedom of expression. And on the other hand, there's no right to stand up with vigilance, is there? , that there is a group that decides what is allowed or not according to its criteria in the public space and that destroys and perpetuates intimidation against the other group of people that had manifested themselves. Therefore, this vigilance that you seem to endorse is undemocratic, it is a fault..., it is a violation of the principle of political pluralism. He's the only one I can tell. And this is the government's defense of fundamental rights. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.41.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the impulse to the local world. [[Ask the government about the impulse to the local world]] [[310-00279/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Alba Camps, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Honourable Consellera Vilagrà... Raquel is mayor of Montclar, in Bergedà. There's a local sports project that worked to get together with the nearest city. It has a full schedule of meetings to find financing for different administrations; a financing that many times does not go up, but, still, it does not want to give up guaranteeing the right of access to serve its people. In the winter many times take the salt and it itself escapes for the road. That's also being mayor in Catalonia. In fact, many of the mayors of this country are like Rachel. I have had the chance, as the delegate of the Government, as you, counsel, to speak with some mayors and mayors of these municipalities. From here, a strong recognition of his pocket, dedication and vocation to public service, his resilience and his firm defense of the peoples they represent. At the length of the mass years we have seen how the ruralities were few represented in the gaze of public policy. For many we are only landscape, and often any possibility of returning from the productive function of the rural world is hidden. We have seen lines of grants little thought for locals with fewer resources, with a few minimums insoluble for most of these municipalities. A financing system basically centered on the population name, without taking into account other indicators, such as population density, which surely are more accurate. The idea of the city as a centre of innovation, knowledge and culture remains. From these municipalities – the reality of the majority, of course, of our country – we must also be able to give answers and guarantee rights: educational, cultural or associative rights. We cannot mortgage the presupposition, for example, in the maintenance of rural paths, because we also need political iron, we need to be able to make political decisions as well. We don't just have to raise it as a bet for the rural municipalities, but as a country bet. To make the gear work, as a society we need to strengthen the structure and resources of the local and rural world, not only for sustainability and social justice, but also because they are the source of many problems and current challenges. And most importantly, these legislative changes must be accompanied by participatory governance. The question, Counselor, is: can these proposals put to us by the Presidency Council to adapt the regulation of the local world to the reality and current municipal needs? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.43.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.44.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman... well, as you say, rural municipalities are not just a means to supply the rest of the food population. Neither are the rural municipalities just landscaping. Rural municipalities are not conservatism, as is often the case, but they are quality of life, they are vitality, they are hope. In fact, Catalonia is very diverse municipally, and of the 947 municipalities, the sixty-two-per-cent are less than two thousand inhabitants. So... a very big territorial repte. By virtue of our competitions, we have already begun to develop the preliminary memory of a law of local governments; therefore, we will open the melodies of municipal competitions and their financing. For another band, the Catalan government is committed to equal opportunities, and this happens because they have a few villages, with a lot of territories, a lot of spreads, so they can enjoy everything that's around them. In this sense, also a preliminary memory of the state of rural municipalities will make us work in this line of territorial rebalancing. The rural municipalities have common problems: inadequate financing – you say –, different difficulties in providing services... This is why the Government intends to ensure an equal treatment of all citizens, vis-à-vis them, to ensure the balanced distribution of the population, to ensure the proper provision of services and, above all, to ensure that, in those terms that affect them, rural municipalities have an impact on decision-making. And that's very important. From the Presidency we have an active escort in these municipalities, and we do so through different tools. As I said, this law from the state of rural municipalities will help us. Dialogue with the rural agenda that the Department of Climate Action has already made, a rural agenda that has already enjoyed an important participation, also, of the local world. He was already planning this new governance, he was planning to guarantee economic, material, human resources, because all municipalities can exercise their competitions. Therefore, this law begins to walk. It's the hands of the local world, it's the hands of the parliamentary groups, with the leadership of the government, and obviously, with all the territorial agents. We know that repte is naught, but we know that we'll get out of it, because we'll do folds. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the action plan to combat the aesthetic pressure. [[Ask the Government about the action plan to combat the aesthetic pressure]] [[310-00280/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.46.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor, a few days ago we were able to talk about aesthetic pressure to the hemisphere, about how the system has been controlling life, self-esteem and self-perception of many of us through one of the forms of male violence, one of many. Aesthetic violence has conditioned our way of living by generating models of beauty that are inexhaustible for the majority of society. In reality, it is not a question of generating a new model of beauty, but of promoting the diversity of the bodies, of hearing that all are valid, and of being able to guarantee us references from all spheres of representativeness and also from this chamber. But let's not be mistaken: the first things must not be the canon – which, in fact, is the one that marks the canon of beauty, that the first things are to be first and young – but not the first things we want are to be stigmatized. And so, in reality, what we want is to stop dictating models of beautiful canons for women. Since advertising, culture, communication media, administrations, schools and more dedicated referents, as they may be in the home, it is necessary that we can break with all stereotypes. The bodies of women – I don't say anything we don't know – have always been in dispute. We wanted to highlight it in the debate we had, he would advise, but unfortunately, the current situation is not much different a few weeks later. The woman's body has still rejected and reprimanded a lot of violence. Today we are talking about aesthetic pressure, but we would not want to take advantage of the opportunity to denounce that in armed conflicts – and we are not talking only about the war in Ukraine, because it would seem too hypocritical to us, but in all conflicts in the world – women still suffer the consequences by duplicating. The woman's body has always been considered a battlefield. And, even though I don't like to use the common language to talk about these issues, it tastes hard, but yes, we are at war. In armed conflicts, as I said now... but we see how the last few days in the United States we also see the right to abhorrence questioned again, with which this generates inequality and inequality for the women of your country. Let us not forget the violence that trans women suffer. At the length of history, we see women once and for all as we have to lay down the body in order to guarantee our rights, and, finally, as they become privileges for many of us. Our bodies, counselor, are always in the spotlight. And another one of the violins knows that it's the one that the women that we are too... (The president removes the use of the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.47.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]] To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.48.0	Member, I subscribe to one hundred_per_cent of your words, and I understand, as your question has begun, that you ask me concretely for the plan to combat the aesthetic pressure. [[and some applause]] - No, no, no, We have a very imminent context, which is the arrival of summer, plagiarism time, time to do more things in the free area, and in the case of women it increases very much this aesthetic pressure to be first, to be waxed, for a thing without stretch... And this aesthetic pressure that imposes these beautiful canons on us in the concrete case of the summer has a name that we all know, which is the bikini operation. Bikini surgery is just an example of how in women these canons of beauty inextricably cause constant dissatisfaction with the body, physical discomfort, emotional discomfort, that we keep half of the teens of the country wanting to get better, making diet without any medical control... And that's why we used this plan. And, as I've said many times, it's a plan, like other public policies of this department, that we don't want to make suns and that we don't want to make the door locked. And we have already begun, the last weeks, to make meetings of different types: meetings with people who have made themselves visible in social networks or who have published books or who have done a specific job to attend to the different dimensions of the aesthetic pressure. Also with specialized entities or entities that have placed the focus on this area, to be able to collect their proposals, their perspectives, to also hear that the women are diverse depending on our age, the color of skin, the disability that we may have, and, therefore, that we collect all these initiations. This process will be wider. We will also meet with the Table for the Prevention of the Distortions of Food Conduct; we will meet with the fashion, audiovisual and advertising sectors, in order to be able to work on all these proposals, and, from here, to make a draft plan of action that we will take to the inter-departmental committee to work with the government. Because, ultimately, how we want to combat all the discriminations that we suffer from women and that the bikini operation involves just grabbing a bikini and going to the platter or going to the pool. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.49.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the economic development of the Penedès. [[Ask the Government about Penedès' economic development]] [[310-00281/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lluïsa Llop, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.50.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Conseller Torrent, as you know, the Penedès is in a geographically privileged situation, forming a wheel between the two great metropolitan areas of the country, between Barcelona and Tarragona, in the same way that it acts as a wheel between the interior and the coast. And, in addition, there are the main terrestrial infrastructures: we are talking about lanes, trains, pipelines, pipelines, water pipelines, etc., with all the potentialities that this entails. Despite all this, the Penedès has two of the most indexed commas in the country's city tax, and, in fact, capped it from years ago, the Lower Penedès, this evil return. From Esquerra we work for a Penedès with a solid and diversified economy where there is agriculture and wine growing, with a powerful agro-food region; also for tourism and wine tourism, and, obviously, essential for a powerful industry. Counselor, we are aware of the work done by the Department of Enterprise and Work in this area, and I give examples of the past times, such as the reindustrialization of Robert Bosch or the important investment in Idiad. And I need to stay on this path. We want, at Penedès, innovative and sustainable industry, and net industry, which generates quality occupation. To strengthen the agro-industry and to accompany this conversion to the automotive industry, extending it to the electric vehicle and the autonome. And all this, driven by a plan that makes us advance in the ecological transition. In this bet it is essential a cabdal company such as the Idiada, head ahead in its sector and that puts the Baix Penedès on the world map of automotive. It is essential to continue to advance the Idiada as a motor of the territory, an engine that brings places of work in a territory much needed of them, but, moreover, it brings places of work that are of quality, in many cases; it brings creation of knowledge, rich; it makes of the pole of attraction of the industry – in particular, of the aid of the automotive –, and completes the pendense of excellence in this sector, together with the Parkmotor of Castellolí. Counselor, that is why it is essential to be able to guarantee the continuity of Idiad to the territory, which continues to participate from the Generality. And not only that, but to encourage its growth to increase the capacity in the area of the autonomous and electric vehicle in some lands that are flying for a logistics policy like the Logis, that does not want the territory and to which we totally oppose. For all this, counselor, where is this reindustrialization and this new Idiad concession? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.51.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.52.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, actually, you said that, didn't you? Reindustrialisation is a key element not only for the development of the Penedès, but also for the country's conjunction. And, in this sense, let's allow me to extend the whole chamber, which brings together all the Members and Members, which precisely this evening came to an agreement between the Directorate of Silence and the Nissan Works Committees that allows the arrival of Silence to be unhindered, a key project from the industrial point of view to the Free Zone, because the agreement allows the contract of good part of the workers who went unhindered with Nissan's tanking, which shields his occupation for the next few years. And this, as I said, allows us to unlock a part of Nissan's reindustrialization, and, in fact, foreshadows the objective with which we are working, in which we are, therefore, developing ourselves and which will continue in the coming weeks. Thanks to the work done by all the actors present at the reindustrialisation table, we are convinced that Nissan's reindustrialisation process – and today's news is not a good proof – will succeed and we will succeed in maintaining industrial continuity and – most importantly – work places. But going to Penedès, huh? Actually, I believe that Penedès is a territory that perfectly exemplifies the difficulties of the moment, certainly, but at the same time the existence of potential elements of growth in the future that perfectly marry the strategic lines of the country. That is to say, the Penedès has some elements, some vertical, that do not only explain its possible development – and for this we will work – but that they connect perfectly with what must be Catalonia in the future. For example, in the field of agri-food, where Penedès is precisely a referent, especially in the field of innovation in this sector, we must continue in this line. And, in fact, we have to make it compatible that you are competitive, that you are continuing to be competitive, and you are making the transformation of the product model, that is essential in all sectors, especially in agri-food, but also in industry, huh? As you said, Idiad is a key piece, from this point of view. It's a phone book that explains the conversion of the mobility sector. And we commit ourselves, in 2023, to start the bidding and to award the project that allows to have continuity of the future to a piece that is always indispensable, but especially at these moments of conversion of the field of the mobility. And we will continue to work in the reindustrialisation of the area. You talked about Bosch Castellet. We'll be on this line, because every company that shuts down... there's got to be a company that continues to have... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Business and Work Councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.53.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the government about pau jutjats]] [[310-00268/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the pau jutjats. The question is put by Mr Pere Albó, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.54.0	Good morning, Counselor. We have heard that a bill of law is being processed at the Congress of Deputies, a bill on the organizational efficiency of the public justice service, a bill of law that we have seen, with concern, that wants to suppress lawsuits. People's justices are a very important service, because they offer tranquillity to the city at the time of settlement, in a peaceful, free and quick way, conflicts between ways. They are the justice closest, once more than very important co-workers for ordinary justice. Even though the judge of pau is not a mediator himself, he participates in many conciliation proceedings, and in most cases he makes it impossible for him to stand trial. As a result of their own name, they pose few and resolve many conflicts that they enquist, otherwise. In essence, he's the mediator of all life. It's the one who knows everyone and who people come to when they have a problem. The jutge de pau tries to solve the problems of day to day. He is only a highly respected figure, who is democraticly educated by the plenary, and whom the people trust. His action has always been directed towards tolerance and coexistence between the veins. And the mission of pau jutjats is to try to reconcile the opposing interests, preventing them from getting worse. Also the Civil Registry, for its band, makes a management..., puts at the disposal of the citizenry data, transactions on births, marriages, deaths... In Fi, we consider that they are an essential figure, an organ that brings justice closer to the people in a way that is very difficult to replace. That's why, Counselor, we'd like to know what the government appreciates about the future of pau jutjats. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.55.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.56.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, for all these bonds that you explain, we are literally against the suppression of this figure. In addition, to the data that you have added, which are very important..., tell them that in our country we have practically all the municipalities, in 947 municipalities of Catalonia..., a yoke of dick every one of them. I mean, there's a total of 898 lawsuits. People close by, you've explained it very well. They know the daily life of the municipalities, they know the costumes, they know the way to do it, and what is the fate of that municipality in concrete, especially the small municipalities. Therefore, we must stop all of this law of organizational efficiency, and we ask that this is how we oppose the whole chamber represented in Madrid, because it is a model very close to Catalonia. It is true that the figure of the justice of the rest of Spain does not have so much success or so much relation, but here it is, here it is an essential figure for the proximity of justice to the people's service. It is a reality that we cannot have a transformation of the courts of law in the municipal offices of Justicia, because the municipal offices are thought to ubiquate themselves in the courts. Not all municipalities, especially in the small, the micro-populations, the towns of less than twenty thousand inhabitants. Therefore, what we are doing is to lengthen, in this way, the justice of the city. We're increasing the conflict of justices, because everything that they're now dealing with is going to be resolved in a trial. Besides, obviously, and, as always, it will not be accompanied, this remodeling, of the resources to put it in the way. Therefore, we may find that we need to delete one figure and do not have the resources to implement another. Miri, from the Department of Justice, we have every commitment to defend this figure. Ask him also the rest of the representatives at the Congress of Deputies who help us, because we will lose a lot. We will extend the justice of the citizenry, face justice and do a weak favor to the perception of justice of proximity for the benefit of the veins. And we will increase, as I said, conflictivity. I have already made the point that we have entrusted the Legal Affairs Committee with a report, because, more than that, this is what it does to clear up some of the skills that we have recognised in Article 108 of the Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, we could open the door to that, by the way of the buidatge of competitions, president, finishing us by rolling self-government. So, that's what we're gonna look like. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.57.0	He asked the Government to give an oral reply in full on university preus publiques. [[Ask the Government about university preus publics]] [[310-00269/13]] The question is put by Mrs Anna Erra, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.58.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Geis... Our country has an open-minded vocation. We have always built Catalonia looking at the world: for one band, giving humanity the best of ourselves, and for the other band, incorporating everything that others do better to grow, to innovate and to transform us. Access to knowledge is an important development factor, an essential element of progress. That is why the improvement in equity in the access of young people in our country to higher education must be a key policy for any government that wants to transform the country. The agents in the field of knowledge in Catalonia make it very clear. We're all very clear. For this reason, it is one of the objectives of the national pact for the knowledge society, the consent agreement of the whole system, and, therefore, it is a full national route that we follow and that we know that, as in the department, you have as to your actions. It was also one of the key points of the government agreement for this legislature, achieving better access conditions to higher education by increasing the number of scholarships and reducing university public fees. To emphasize that this claim was made by the study of universities in our country many years and many years ago, and that since the government it has been completed to the extent that it has been possible. First, with a reduction of the 30_per_cent of the credit price of the grades of the 20-21 course, and later, with the equipping of the price of the masters and their reduction – a 40_per_per_cent of the later course. The demand of the students and the commitment of the Government and of a majority of the Parliament made that two weeks ago the modification of the law of universities was approved, marking a time for which all the degrees will have to cost the same in three courses, a price considerably lower than the current one. We know, she advises, that you were very supportive of the approval of this ILP in these terms, and that you committed to a strong reduction in university prices in the very course 22-23. That's why we're asking you, Counselor Geis: what is your department's proposal to reduce prices for the coming course? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.59.0	To answer, has the word Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.60.0	Good morning, President. President, advisors, MP Erra... So, effectively, I think that, at a time of difficulty, the best that the country can do is bet for the young man, for the talent. And, therefore, this proposal to lower prices that we made public this week and that has now begun its processing put this, puts the country's axis in this recovery, in youth and talent. And what we're doing is following this national pact for the knowledge society, which it establishes is working for equity of access to university education, and, therefore, students..., strengthening equity policies in the university arena. This agreement is also in the proper government agreement, and, as you said, also the approval of the ILP, which it establishes..., from 2023 to 2026, but we thought it was necessary to move it forward this year. Therefore, this proposal to lower university priests, as you said, is part of a full road that has already been governed. The year 2000-2021 we lowered the price of grades and masters by thirty per cent. Last year we've already lowered the prices of the masters by 40 percent. And this year, what we're doing is we're lowering thirty-three_per_cent the highest degrees of experimentation—that's to say, the ones that have the most lab practices, the ones that have the most fieldwork—and also the enabling masters, to give the most fairness to students who need to take a master's degree in order to gain access to a profession. And, respect degrees with a middle experimentality, in these cases, we lower them to a twenty-i-sis_per_cent. Here we are thinking of areas and studies that are also important for the future, huh? because what we're doing is we're lowering all the prices of engineering, artificial intelligence, computer engineering, telecommunications engineering, industrial engineering, but we're also lowering the price of science..., from the realm of the sciences of health, medicine, infirmary– and that's very important–, or in related studies, such as research, such as biology or biotechnology. Therefore, I believe that this was an important aspect. And, finally, another of the requirements at this lower price was that you didn't impact at the university. We have increased the university budget by EUR 21 million. We've increased Profor's presupposition in search, too. We've increased the MOST. And, therefore, this downside we assume by the Government of the Generality. And what can't happen in this country is that a student, when he has to bring the university pre-registration, decides his future not because of his vocation and what he wants to bring to the country, but because of his economic capacity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.61.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the international action of the Vice-President. [[Ask the Government about the international action of the Vice President]] [[310-00270/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. They will allow me, before I ask my question, to have some words of recognition and esteem for Elsa Artadi. Having worked with her and having followed her during this time has been a luxury for the whole parliamentary group, and we will always have her present for all and for all. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Vice President Puigneró, fifteen days ago he was on institutional travel to New York at the High-Level Meeting on New Urban Agenda, his own from the United Nations. A very important journey, if we take into account that we in Catalonia are putting digitalization as a catalyst of urban transformation to achieve more territorial balance, more social prosperity and a new economic model of the future. In the march of this stay and of the meetings that they held, it is particularly necessary to be able to explain that we knew that the UN had chosen the Lands of the Ebro as the first territories in the world to assess urban resilience. As in the past, this is very important news for me, considering that this program will allow for a diagnosis of the area's strengths and weaknesses and, at the same time, increase its resilience before the transformations and global reptes. Four specific and unique regions that unique fans – Baix Ebre, Terra Alta, Montsià and Ribera d'Ebre – want to be prepared for the change that has come and must come the fruit of digitalization, the fruit of climate change or the fruit of the transformation of the product model, among others. We don't have to forget that the girls' pilot tests so far have been in urban and city environments. Now the challenge and opportunity are coming to my land and they're opening the door for us to preserve fragile surroundings in urban areas, but also – and very important – with a great natural value to protect. But, said that, his trip also served to open other doors in defense of different rights, because the visit allowed to present the Aina project, a project that is gathering Catalan views with all its variants and accents because it represents the rich linguistics of our language, in order to nourish content and make it possible, precisely, that the machines understand us. For all that, Vice-President, we want to ask him who the actions that he has brought to completion have been and who the rights that he has wanted to put in value to the length of these days have been. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.63.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.64.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman... Indeed, it was a trip of rights, a trip to claim the rights, the rights of Catalonia, but above all also, in this specific case, because it was the main motive of the trip, to claim the right of territorial equity, of the relationship, and, specifically, with the program that will drive United Nations in the march of UN-Habitat in the march of the lands of the Jews. I have to say that these things... I'm saying this because you've already seen it on the news, saying, "The UN has decided that... that doesn't happen by chance, huh? That's what happens because we're working on it... And, therefore, from the department we understood that..., looking for an ecosystem we apply the urban agenda from the perspective that the Lands of the Ebre is an ecosystem of four comarques with many municipalities and with particularities that complement many of the elements of what is spoken of today, of how cities and territories must be resilient. You mentioned some of them; we could also add to it the whole energy transition of a land, so to speak, which has nuclear power plants with nine forms of energy. There are many unique elements that can allow these four comarques – the Vegueria, in this case, of the Lands of the Hebrews – to be able to do the program. And I think it's great news that UN-Habitat, that the UN has set itself and uses it as a pilot program all over the world, huh? So, from what I've been studying here, from what you're doing here, it'll apply to other places. There has also been a journey that we have obviously taken advantage of to claim and continue to promote Aina, which, as you well know, therefore, we have not already made the promotion in the field of the Catalan Countries. Now we thought that Catalans abroad also had a right to have their own act, and, therefore, they could also participate in this project. And finally, taking full advantage of Pegasus, it is obvious that we have also made meetings in the realm of American civil rights, as well as digital human rights. They are very concerned about what they are going through with using these cyber weapons in a European Union country. And it is obvious that we will be informed by many of these entities in reference to this use by the Government of the Spanish State of espionage towards the citizenry of Catalonia. And it's clear that the big question that this Parliament is supposed to ask and that we're making all our pleas is precisely... Mr. Illa was part of this government, this government that's been spying on us. And the question we should ask Mr. Illa is: "Listen, did you know that? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the application of Law 1/2022, amending the laws 18/2007, 24/2015 and 4/2016 to address the emergence in the field of housing, and the obligation of the great tenors to offer social logue. [[Asks the Government about the application of Law 1/2022, amending Law 18/2007, Law 24/2015 and Law 4/2016 to tackle the emergence in the field of housing, and the obligation of the great tenors to offer social logue]] [[310-00271/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.66.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, as you know perfectly well, the compulsory social logger for the great lords is one of the tools that have driven social movements for the right to housing to ensure the involvement of those who have profited and speculated with housing in ensuring a decent housing for vulnerable families. When Decree 17/2019, which made it necessary to offer this social logger, did not give the Vauras fund to the families of the Bloc Llavors, which were denuded. The whole thing, after a long time of mediation and trying to get this fund to offer this social logger... as he didn't do, he put a sanction on it. Now the Vauras Foundation has managed to get a jutjat to admit a lawsuit against Mayor Ada Colau and the governors Lucía Martín and Marc Serra just to force this great tenor to complete the law. Now we have Law 1/2022, which restores this social lloger, which again forces the great tenors to offer this social lloger. That's why we wanted to ask him two questions. In the first place, what do you think, of this complaint and of the fact that a fund of reversal, a fund returned from a great tenor, you filed a lawsuit against public authorities that they wanted you to complete the law? I wanted to know what the government's position is. We also wanted to ask him, now that we have the law in force, that we have recovered the social logue, what his government has done to make it happen, how many social logue contracts have been made, how many sanctions have been imposed against funds returned in the event that there is no offer. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.67.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.68.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies... Llei 1/2022, March 3, 2022, was published in the Official Gazette of the Generality on March 3, 2022. Therefore, at these times two _months and four days ago. During these two_months and four days, therefore, from the department, and concretely also from the Habitatage Agency, the detail which are the actions that we have been due to the end. In the first place, letters were sent to the great tenors about the so-called compulsory social logue. The control circuit and penalties that correspond to the Department of Work to Consum have been detailed. It has established the sending of cards to joints informing about the subsidiary competences of sanctioning the mark of the compulsory social logger, especially to the Barcelona Joint, attending to the own competence to claim it. The compulsory social logger platform has been created, which links all offers of offers and communicates to the great tenors who are these obligations. And communication and information lives have been opened, such as an electronic search engine and document information guides. Also established is the holding of information sessions aimed at technical staff of Ofideute, of the assemblies, of the basic social services and of the collections of professionals and of the housing sector. And this entire task ended during these two months..., has been informing the organizations in defense of the habitat, as you know, in the periodic meetings that we keep with them periodically.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.69.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.70.0	Thank you, Counselor. I suppose the question about what you think of the lawsuit against the Mayor of Barcelona and the governors will answer it to me at the reply, because he didn't do it in this one. What we consider, basically, is that his government is still not doing dues in habitation. You're still not investing enough. We're still with a social logger park under two per cent, when the middle to which it was supposed to arrive is fifteen per cent. They still do not put the necessary housing in the months of emergence to end the waiting lists, despite the fact that this Parliament has approved it, I do not know how many times, a plan of unemployment to put the months of emergence to zero, which are the responsibility of the Government of the Government of Catalonia – all of them – and that there are thousands of families waiting until two years. And they still don't stand next to vulnerable families. There is no anti-denomination unit that was compromised by President Aragonès. When there is a denunciation, the only one you see from the Generality is the moves, which, moreover, often act with a rape that is indignant against families and against activists. And the generality, instead of chasing and looking for the backs and the backs to offer this social logue, what it does is fine the activists, as in the case of the Vauras fon. And a reminder: the competence of sanction is also of the Generality of Catalonia, it is not only of the joints. So be brave and do the work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.71.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.72.0	Thank you, President. He's commented different things and in time... I won't have, I guess, time to answer them. One: about trying to expand the park of the habitatage. We all know, housing isn't built overnight. There's money on the premises so we can build it and we're working on this stuff. About the help of logging: more than 140_million euros to the premise of the year passed to help families not be denuded. And, about everything you said about the Vauras and the sanctions, do you know what's going on, Congresswoman? And do you know what's really going on with the big guys? So the state government has filed unconstitutionality appeals against the laws passed in this Parliament. Inconstitutionality remedies which, in the end, create case-law and which make the great tenors, rightly relying on these constitutionality remedies and in this case-law, are encouraging precisely these procedures in order to be able to adjust the compulsory social logues. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, Congresswoman, that's what's going on. And do you also know what's going on? That you, who say that we do not have the skills to solve some of the questions approved in this Parliament of Catalonia, have the opportunity, with... (The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Councillor of Social Rights and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.73.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the severance of negotiations with the education sector and the new wave call]] [[310-00273/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the severance of negotiations with the education sector and the new wave call. The question is posed by Mrs Nogay Ndiaye, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.74.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, have you decided to recognize that you have been unable to negotiate, dialogue and reach consensus with the educational community? How do you plan to deal with the nine days of vacation called for the proper days of May and June? How do you intend to deal with the feeling of twenty-five per cent, beyond making statements of resources that, in the band of widening agony, will not serve for anything?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.75.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Ndiaye, what I don't understand is that you continue to repeat the mantra of lack of dialog, of intransigence, when the facts say something else. What we've done since the Department of Education is up to five agreed proposals. We've made up to five agreed proposals. These agreed proposals... since the month of the fever we've found ourselves with the empty fall to the other gang. And so what we're doing... we want an agreement, and what we're asking is that they come to your sister so that we can talk to her and come to this agreement, with this dialog. On the subject of català..., we do what we do before a feeling, an interlocutory that is a pedagogical aberration, it is a political aberration, it is an attack on the model of a country..., we do what we do is fight with all our tools, file an appeal before an interlocutory that goes beyond, clearly, any jurisdiction of a court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.77.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.78.0	You've become the captain of a sinking ship. You have only succeeded in becoming the advisor of waves, of the discomfort of the educational community and of the trade union revolution. You just – did you have to thank him – managed to create for the first time a vague committee formed for all education unions fighting with a common goal: its cessation. And you said only because your unilateral decisions and your statements led us to the situation in which we find ourselves today. We're coming from six days and we're going to four more days. A few weeks ago, and today, in this same room, you said you wouldn't get up from the table until you got to the deal. And he didn't just get up from the table and cut off the negotiations unilaterally, but practically never did. He sent in interlocutors. The dialog and the intent to negotiate were fictitious. The department presented itself with decisions that had already been taken and no intention of negotiating or laying down the red lines that had been set up by the vagaries committee: reversal of the details, recovery of school hours, school calendars... Now we have over the table a feeling that puts our linguistic model in danger, a feeling that they want to increase teaching hours in Spanish language. That both the basic skills of sisè as well as those of ESO quarter, the PAU and the university results show that immersion also guarantees the acquisition of the skills in Spanish language. We, in this House, re-lay your disapproval on the table and wish this time to be approved. And, therefore, I ask you: as the captain of this vessel that makes water, that can no longer bear more detail, less, more burden the teacher, less educational quality for our student and less hours of català, will he leave the vessel or is he going to stay with it? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.79.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.80.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Ndiaye, I used to tell you before, huh? I said it a while ago: what you say, the facts lie about it. We have made up to five agreed proposals. With the agreement or without the agreement, this vessel that you say goes into the coming course gives answer to seven of the fourteen union complaints: it gives answer to the principle of the reversal of retailing; it gives answer to requests from many years ago from the educational community, such as the reduction of the rate to the classrooms, as it is an increment of professional training as it had never been, as it is a macroprocess of plant stabilization... Therefore, beyond the sound of some and beyond his mantra, which does not fit the facts, let us go to what is actually happening and what we are actually doing. And the rest of the proposals... what we've done is we've calendared them, we've calendared them. And, therefore, we are going to give an answer, but everyone can understand that it is still not possible to do so. So, what we're doing is we're going to give an answer, so as to improve the education of our infants and our students, to all the complaints we have on the part of the unions. For what he does to the model... And we haven't broken anything, we haven't broken any negotiations, we haven't risen from the table. We've had the cadira empty since the month of fever. And, therefore, we will continue to be sure of the table. You refer to the theme of the català. The theme of the català..., is the moment of consensus. It is the moment of maximum political consensus, maximum social consensus and maximum pedagogical consensus. From all spheres and from all fronts. And it's time, as always, as we do day after day, to be at the side of our directions, with all the cover and all the legal oversight and all the legal oversight. And it is also the time to increase, before a data from the use of the català to the educational centers that do not please us, that do not satisfy us..., it is time to increase the use of the català to the educational centers through an impulse and through the national pact for language. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.81.0	Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the news about the fact that Carles Puigdemont has acknowledged that he met with Vladimir Putin's emissaries]] [[317-00159/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.82.0	Thank you, President. After denying that he was active and passive, Carles Puigdemont acknowledged that he met with an emissary of Vladimir Putin. You, who also denied this extreme, how do you value these new investigations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.83.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.84.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I think President Puigdemont has explained these days to the media what his view is about the facts that have been published. I am President of the Generalate a year ago, and therefore I am responsible for all the events that the Government of Catalonia has carried out a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.85.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.86.0	Thank you, President. A little more than a month ago, on the question of our group, you categorically denied, and with overactive indignant tone, any connection of separatism with the regime of Vladimir Putin. Today we know – Carles Puigdemont himself has been forced to acknowledge the evidence – that these meetings took place. Today you don't deny anymore, but throw balloons out as if the thing wasn't with you. And I'm afraid it does go with you, because you should answer a number of very specific questions: will you continue without condemning Puigdemont's relationship with Putin? Will you continue without investigating what was discussed at that meeting? Will you continue to keep in your Government those who believe that the legitimate president is Puigdemont and not you? If you remain in the current attitude, you would become an accomplice to the destabilisation activities of the European Union of the regime of Vladimir Putin. Today you have a chance to demarcate yourself for real. Investigate, condemn and expel from his Government those who continue to insist that the Council for the Republic of Puigdemont is the legitimate Generalitat. Look, separatism was even willing to negotiate with Putin in order to achieve its objectives, some of us felt it; today we know it to be true. But what overcomes any imaginable immorality is that the Socialist Party maintain its agreements with all of them: with Junts in the Barcelona Diputation, with Esquerra Republicana in the Congress of Deputies. While handing over the head of the CNI director, they maintain their agreements with those who intended to negotiate with the mafia – I repeat: with the mafia –, turning Catalonia into a tax haven for cryptocurrencies. And they still allow themselves, above all, the luxury, Mr. Salvador Illa, of choting themselves in the plenary of you as they just did a moment ago. What a shame, Mr. Illa. What a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.88.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'm glad you asked me for responsibilities for five years ago for which it was published, when I wasn't president of the Government of Catalonia. So, well, I guess if he starts pulling back, he'll end up asking me for some responsibilities about who was the role of the MPs representing the Catalan Courts to the Casp Commitment, in this step, if he pulls back. In any case, should we meet with Putin? Yes, Mariano Rajoy's in 2013. Rejected for Putin. [[Greetings.]] And he, taking it. And that means I have to ask for your responsibilities now? So, if they want to try to stretch a thread that they know is very short... that thread you're trying to stretch is very short, and they know it perfectly. But you pretend to be trying to create a fracture in which is the Europeanist compromise of the joint project of political Catalanism, and also of independence, and also of this government. And this is a government that is very clear that Catalonia's future is in the European market, which is the mark that guarantees us rights and freedoms, because if we are to hope that you will guarantee us Spain that you have contributed to build, this current Spain that does not guarantee rights and freedoms, we will have arranged. That is why we trust Europe. Also from the political point of view, from the point of view of rights and freedoms, and also – I remember – from the judicial point of view, that Europe has given a few lessons to the witch hunt that began by its People's Party government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.89.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. Ask the President of the Generality about the compliment of the interview of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia on the 25_percent of castella a l'école 317-00154/13 The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.90.0	Mr Aragonès, after the strong decision of the High Court of Justice ordering the execution of the sentence of the minimum of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish classes, what do you intend to do? Will they fulfill?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.92.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, we are appealing, because we believe that this resolution goes beyond what is the function of a court, even in the execution of a sentence. Therefore, we shall file appeals. We will present the legal battle until the end and continue to defend the model of school in Catalan, which is a model that contributes to social cohesion, that guarantees the learning of the two official languages of Catalonia and that it is a model – the current one – that has validation from the academic point of view, from the social point of view, from the pedagogical point of view, from the educational point of view. And, therefore, we will continue to work to strengthen the current model also in front of the next course. What is needed is to protect the weaker language – and this is the Catalan language – in the conjunct of the territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.93.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.94.0	Mr. Aragonès, you already know, but it's useless to resort to more to fail. Because that resource you're talking about, and your counselor, doesn't suspend the 15-day period. Say it now and don't lie anymore. You have fifteen days left – fifteen. We've been here for 15 years. You're going to comply, don't hesitate. Ciutadans will take care of it. You are not above the law nor are you superior to the rest of the citizens. The court has already warned you, on its second legal basis, that it is not worth that political and legal churro that you have taken off the sleeve with the PSC and the commons; that what is worth it is that the councillor dictates the instructions at once and enforces them. I announce that today we are going to record – today – a proposal for a law very different from that churro I was talking about. It does respect the rights guaranteed by the court. Mr Illa and the Socialist Party say on television that the sentences must be complied with, but from behind they help not comply with them: they manufacture alibis with the commons that the court lies or lies when they say from the government that the high inspection cannot enter the Catalan schools. Today, I will address the delegation of the Government in Catalonia in writing to demand that it act and that the Sánchez Government provide the necessary means for the high inspection to comply with the sentence. Civil society, from the "manifesto of the 2,300 to the Assembly by a Bilingual School, in a struggle of years, has obtained from the judges what the People's Party and the Socialist Party with the Government of Spain, the State Advocate and all the media have not wanted to do in forty years. They should apologize to so many families who have been deprived of their constitutional rights for decades. Stop cheating now, Mr. Aragonès. If we do not have bilingualism, it is that we have dictatorship and total contempt for the citizens. No more nationalist blackmails and parties that claudiate everything so as to come to power or to keep themselves in it. Your position is already indefensible, gentlemen of the government. They've reached the end of the getaway. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - First of all, you have been constantly threatening us all. In this very House, they threatened Councilman Cambray and me to report us to the prosecution – they did it on March 28 – supposedly out of disobedience before this ruling. Remember what the D.A. said? He filed it. Therefore, a little humility would convince them – a little humility would convince them. Second, what your defense demonstrates is an absolute disconnection of the educational methods that serve Catalan schools. Absolutely – absolutely. There's no teaching only... there's no need for a language in the classroom only. There are many educational resources that are used, much of the learning for projects, in which resources are used by many types, many languages: in catalá– pocs, that we need more, also in the digital field –, in castle, in English... Therefore, this happens in the classrooms of our country. You have a model of the past. He made reference to this 40-year-old manifesto. You did stay 40 years back. Luckily, society is moving forward. And I also want to make a call at the conjunction of the rest of the forces that we have defended the Catalan school model and the language model that we have applied. He's got to make it stronger. And, therefore, I appeal to the unit, to the political consensus, to ambition, and, therefore, to be able to put all the resources that we have in our grasp to continue preserving the linguistic model of the Catalan school before a decision of a court that goes beyond limits, that goes into dictating educational policy and that end up giving the master what they have to do, and also shows a very great disconnection of how it works for the Catalan schools. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.97.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the activation of the law of linguistic policy and the protection of the catalá at school before the interferences of the courts]] [[317-00155/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.98.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, I will begin my intervention, as it cannot be in any other way, obviously, expressing our rebuff to this interlocutory of the High Court of Justice that wants to put an expiry date on our model of linguistic immersion. A model that, as has been said, guarantees equality of opportunity, social cohesion, and which, moreover, has been raised to the wrists by the popular classes of our country. And this interview wasn't by infamous was unexpected. In fact, that's why on March 24 his parliamentary group, ours, the PSC and Juntes came to a pact that we signed to modify the law of language policy and to shield the català, and above all the teacher and educational centers, of judicial interference. And since that pact, President, there has been one and a half months; one and a half months that has been postponed for fifteen days in fifteen days, to the hope that Together will clarify its embolisms and also waiting for its position, which we still do not know. And, waiting, waiting, what has happened is that this compromise and this agreement has not arrived, and the one that has arrived is this interlocutor. And yesterday the spokesman of your parliamentary group, Mrs Vilalta, said, and I quote: "It is necessary to speed up this law, because the defence of language cannot wait for Junts for Catalonia to agree. And, however, when yesterday we put them in place to change the order of the day of this plenary in order to be able, once and for all, to start activating this law of linguistic policy, we find ourselves with its negative, we find ourselves with a no. And, therefore, president, the question is very simple, the question is: what are we waiting for to activate this law of language policy and protect our schools from the heights of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.100.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, we agree with the defence of the Catalan school language model that has been applied; it needs to be reinforced, because at these times it is clear that the model based on the Catalan language as the vehicle language does not apply in the system joint and therefore can reinforce it. There will be actions to strengthen it in front of the proper course. In view of the situation arising from the judgment and from the later interlocutory, we must activate all the mechanisms that we have in our abyss. And changing the language law is one of the mechanisms that needs to be activated, and it needs to be activated urgently. Therefore, given that there is a need to strengthen this consensus and also that the same four groups that promoted the entry of the initiative strengthen this consensus, it is better, if not better, the one that needs to be improved from the proposal, which, obviously, as all of us, is perfectable, what we need to do is to devote the proper hours and the very days of this week to being able to agree on this issue. It is an appeal that we have to abst, the appeal to legislate directly from the Parliament of Catalonia, which we do not have to disapprove of. We know, however, what was the interpretation made by the own High Court of Justice of Catalonia of normative texts, going absolutely far from the experts themselves of the norms. Therefore, we must, I think, finish improving the text, but the objective is to maintain this consensus, to strengthen it, that we also accompany the educational community as much as possible, but it is a tool that we cannot disapprove of. She's not the only one. We will continue to work on what is all the process in terms of resources and other initiatives we have to defend a model that has been a success model and that still needs to be improved, but it does not have to change its essence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.101.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. We've been waiting for a month and a half, and no alternative proposal has arrived. So, to add, always, but it's that we can't wait any longer, because we're down in time and every day that goes by is one more day of anxiety and uncertainty for the educational center, and it's one more day of oxygen for these gentlemen that we're already listening to them say these barbarities, as Mr. Carrizosa said before. And we have to finish, once and for all, with this evil. Because, besides, when I say we can't wait any longer, it's that neither you nor I are on the front line. Who's in the front line are the addresses of the educational centers and it's the teacher. So he's asking him to put us in there now, to start doing all our work once and for all, because the educational centers can't go on like this, and we need to protect them this same week. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.104.0	Thank you, President. As I said, my intention is that this change can be approved as soon as possible. In this we work and in this we will work, especially in the hours and days that come, so that we can strengthen this consensus and, therefore, can be approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. It's an appeal we've got to the bottom. We know, I want to repeat, how the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia acts in this specific matter. And, therefore, we must be very strict in the final contents of the law of linguistic policy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the layout before the fracs of the model based on the organization of great sporting events]] [[317-00157/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Montserrat Vinyets, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.106.0	Good morning. This diumenge, the platform # StopJJOO calls on everyone to participate in the demonstration in Puigcerdà against the government's proposal to celebrate Olympic games in the Pyrenees by 2030 at the hand of the COE. It gives the feeling that this government clings to the stubborn execution of macroprojects linked to sport, such as the Montmeló circuit or the American Cup, and to the oci, such as the Tarragona Hard Rock Cafe, as the formula to give response to the needs of transformation of this country before an absolutely exhausted model, among others for the exhaustion of fossil resources. President, has your government traced any of this model fractures and your desperate intentions of reinventing yourself?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.108.0	Thank you very much, President. MP, the Catalan economy has a future if it is a diversified economy. Especially, one of the areas where we want to increase what is our percentage of GDP, a little more than twice as much as the twenty-five percent in 2030, is in the industrial sphere. And, therefore, the country's economic future project is necessary for green and digital reindustrialisation. And more than projects that form part of other areas of the economy, that also exist as the diversified economy and, therefore, does not mean that the stake for reindustrialisation means to tell the paper industry such important sectors that they create jobs and that they will continue to improve, that they need to create jobs that are still of higher quality and much more stable, sectors such as the field of tourism or trade..., does not mean that we draw these projects to paper industry. You are centered on some projects, and what we see is the totality of the different economic areas where we are operating. Regarding the Olympic Winter Games of 2030, we complement what this Parliament has said, which is that it is possible to make a consultation and that the citizenry thinks. Then, I think... let's let it be the citizenry of the Pyrenees, which also expresses what its will is and, from here on, we will obviously complete with what they say and respect their decision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.109.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.110.0	President, the territory is not the base of the metropolitan area. The covid crisis was a moment, a historic opportunity to rethink public infrastructure, not to respond to the dictates of global capital. What we call territories is the country and needs a bet that is very clear to generate jobs of quality, a diversified and redistributive global economy. The government's stake for the Olympic games or the American Cup opens the doors to a social, economic and energy crisis, and it is not the necessary turnaround, essential to guarantee energy and food sovereignty. And not content with that either, they don't respond to the needs of the country's workers. Nissan's workers are now protesting, as a result of continuing delays at the negotiating table. Two years ago the company announced the definite closure of this company; more than a year and a half ago the meetings of the re-industrialization table began, and few months ago the closure materialized. After more than twenty meetings, there is still no solution that is agreed upon. That's why I ask him again: President, what is the plan that his government has laid before the weakness of his model. Because we and most people in this country don't see him anywhere. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.112.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Nissan: this evening there was an agreement in which the company Silence, an industrial electric motorcycle company, will settle in the Free Zone, to the space that leaves Nissan free, and that will hire workers from the Nissan plant that has closed. It is an agreement that was reached this night and that I appreciate the work done by the Department of Enterprise and Work, of course, and especially for the representation of the workers and the group of actors who participated in the reindustrialisation table. But we don't..., that's to say, the projects we want to reindustrialize the country aren't triage free for us; unfortunately, we have to go looking, we have to go to capture, we have to generate enough energy capacity, for example, we have to generate adequate conditions of international connections, we have to generate adequate infrastructure. And in this sense, they also need all their complicity, because in these areas that are preconditions for getting investments they can accompany us, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.113.0	Thank you, President. He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in full on the general political situation. [[He asked the President of the Generalitat whether he would focus on improving the lives of Catalans instead of asking the President of the Spanish Government for clearance of responsibilities.]] [[317-00156/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.114.0	Mr. Aragonès, are you going to focus on improving the lives of Catalans or are you going to remain obsessed with asking the autocrat Sanchez for heads?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. This government is working day after day to improve the conditions of Catalans and Catalans of good. We want to have all the tools that the countries that have the greatest sovereignty have, so that we can work without rest and without anyone being able to make excuses, for the better of the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans. We regret that the violation of more basic rights of speech, such as the right to privacy, the secrecy of communications, the right to political participation, and the violation and lack of complaint when this violation of rights occurs, we regret that you will have to occupy our time and, therefore, we cannot dedicate the 100_per_cent to which we like to dedicate, which is to the best of the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans, all without distinction. I don't think we can all say the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.117.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.118.0	Mr Aragonès, the top priority of every public representative should be to improve the lives of citizens. Your political activity should be focused and directed at ensuring the well-being and prosperity of all Catalans, and you do not do either. To improve your life, Mr Aragonès, is to improve living conditions; for example, to ensure security in the neighbourhoods and that none of our neighbours are afraid to open the portals of your home at certain times of the day. I know that for you these emergencies are secondary, but unfortunately they are the day to day of many of our compatriots. Proof of this is the testimony he received a few hours ago in Rocafonda, in Mataró, where the neighbors wonder how he will defend coexistence in our neighborhoods a president of the Generalitat who congratulates himself on the expansion of Islam and who ensures that Islamists do not have to adapt themselves because they are already part of Catalonia. It is impossible, Mr Aragonès, for you to tackle this problem, because today your ideology represents the anti-face against common sense and that all of us, unfortunately, suffer its consequences. Insecurity, illegal immigration, the expansion of Islamism, and now also climate fanaticism. You, with Mr. Illa, want insecure neighborhoods, degraded neighborhoods, no identity, and where families can't get to the end of the month. That's your project, Mr. Aragonès. Because their policies have consequences, serious consequences – very serious – such as, for example, that workers' factories close because of their linguistic and climatic impositions, and that Catalans have to be consumers of products from countries thousands and thousands of kilometers away. Your policies also cause cars to be unable to circulate because you force workers to change their diesel – once sustainable, but now polluting – to buy electric vehicles. And because its policies, Mr Aragonès, cause basic supplies to be faced day by day with the loss of energy and food sovereignty, the refusal to exploit our resources, and the insistence on closing the existing ones. That's your project for Catalonia, Mr. Aragonès. That is his legacy for the next generations. But don't hesitate, we'll rebuild everything you take down. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.120.0	Thank you, President. Well, I believe that with this intervention it has proved not only as some are, from the distance of the reality itself of our country, but also directly, so..., to charge, deny the existence of the climate change, deny the need for policies to deal with a climate change, which translates into concrete things, such as a hint of salvation, precisely, of the territories with smaller entrances and to the most vulnerable barrels of Catalonia. And, therefore, it is essential to continue with the policies of struggle against climate change, because they are policies of defence also of salvation, collective salvation and individual salvation. And we will continue to work to reindustrialize our country, to make this climate transition process a green and digital reindustrialisation process, clearly betting on the expansion of renewable energies, for a new industrial model that ensures more benefit and prosperity. Today, with this intervention, it seems that the Government of Catalonia is the one that dictates the process of globalisation at world level, as if we were the World Trade Organization. It clearly shows that exaggeration, demagoguery, unfortunately have a presence in this Parliament, but we will fight it with facts, with conviction and with all the transformative ambition. Therefore, the extreme right will not stop the transformative ambition of the Government of Catalonia, of Catalonia, for all territories and for all people, for whom they believe in a god and for whom they do not believe in the head. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.121.0	He asked the President of the General Council to respond orally in full to the latest developments in political affairs. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the inadequacy of the clearance of responsibilities for Catalonia]] [[317-00153/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.122.0	Very honorable president. President, members of the Government, deputies and deputies, in the first place we have just learned that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has once again condemned President Torra to eight months of incapacity for defending freedom of expression with a banner calling for the freedom of political prisoners. The strongest condemnation before this attitude of justice and all the support for the President of the Generality for defending freedom of speech, which is a fundamental right. [[Greetings.]] And speaking of phonative rights, twenty-four days ago the Catalanade broke out. It's been four weeks since the Spanish government gave timely explanations. We're almost wearing a_me without Pedro Sánchez debugging the relevant responsibilities. They spy massively on us, attack our intimacy, tempt against our freedom and violate our fundamental rights. It's still against independence, and that's all. Mass espionage is very hard, but Pedro Sánchez's nil response is still harder. The minimum required in any democracy would be to know who ordered it, who validated it, who executed it, and who paid it. And while the government of the state gets its hands together, does not give its face, does not approve of a commission of investigation of the PP's and VOX's hand at the Congress of Deputies and does not have the will to publish its related documents. The termination of the director of the CNI is not enough. As Mr Juliana said, who is not suspected of being an independentist, "the hunt continues under the command of the hunt. Therefore, the cessation does not go as far as Turkish. And, therefore, we cannot be left solely with rhetorical demands. As we have always said, Europe is a space of freedom where we find justice. The European Parliament will investigate it, it is investigating it, as we will do here in the Parliament of Catalonia. And to have credibility in Europe and above all to ensure respect for our dignity, it must be consistent with relations with the Government of the State. They can't talk to who's spying on us. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.124.0	Thank you, President. My honourable Member, I adhere to your words with respect to what you yourself have explained about this new sentence to President Torra. From here, all my support, as I have already expressed at the beginning of this new judicial process. I'd like to make one thing very clear. It is a mistake who thinks that with the decision to terminate the CNI director who took the Council of Ministers yesterday, the clearance of responsibilities ended, the necessary transparency that we have not yet found and the guarantees of non-repetition are achieved. Because these are the elements that we have placed on the table and that are far from complete. We demand full transparency. For the time being, it's a commission of official secrets that we know about is filtering; filtering through means of communication of documents that affect even the honorability of some concrete people, speaking for myself, with some publications that have taken place today. And, therefore, we demand that it be published, that it be declassified, the magistrate's resolutions that made the CNI decide to spy on us a few, and that it has recognized it. And that it's also unclassifying all the information respects the rest of the espionage. Because we're talking about the fact that they accepted the Official Secrets Committee, but there's not much more, more than a six-year-old, and they're responding in this area as well. And there hasn't been any at the moment. Second, taking responsibility. Clearly, it is clear that political responsibilities are being reduced. Yesterday there was a decision of respect, but we need to know who was not in the case, who had ordered and allowed this espionage and, therefore, who was also left with the responsibilities. And three, guarantee of no repetition. Because, if to defend, precisely, the right to self-determination and amnesty in a process of dialogue and negotiation in Spain some of us are a threat, or we were a threat in 2019, it means that today, that we are defending the same, we are following the independence of Catalonia, we are following the right to self-determination, we are defending the amnesty and we are always defending it..., I mean that now, according to his thesis, we are still feeling, too, a threat for this Spain that has been built and that, therefore, we deserve to continue to be violated our intimacy. Therefore, what has not happened is absolutely essential: transparency, accountability and guarantees of non-repetition. Until that happens, no one can give a crisis either by nuance or by resolution. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.125.0	He asked the President of the Generality to reply on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the line in which the Government works to defend the Catalan school]] [[317-00160/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.126.0	Thank you, President. President, aberrant: judicialization; attack on language. There are many of the views that we have heard, the last hours, charge against the last decision of the TSJ against the català. The TSJ, again, breaks into school again with a political decision of effects that can be devastating for the linguistic model, for social cohesion. The courts, again, make politics. And we know who these courts are here from, and so we know what kind of politics they're into. Ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary, they pass their clusters of our schools, no longer putting at risk social cohesion, equal opportunities, wealth, non-linguistic segregation and the protection of català. They have again made an aggressive decision, because they have resolved on the basis of a law that is no longer in force, because, under pedagogical criteria, they want to impose percentages that in the fund are political quotas. Before this attack, it is up to us once more to demand persistence and determination, less lamentation, less sluggishness and less proclamation. We urgently need to act; we have the obligation to do so. It does not serve us to dilate it further, nor to seek excuses, nor to put lefts among us. That is why we appeal to the responsibility of everyone, of us – yes, of us – the first, obviously, without apology or delay, from Parliament to the Government, passing through the parties, civil society, the educational community or families. For the sake of country and social justice, because the school we have today has managed to mobilize us, there are many defending a shared project. Political and social consensuses are defended everywhere, in institutions and in the streets. And so, now too. We can differ in shapes, but we can't differ in trying and doing it, because we have, as I say, the obligation. It's an unprecedented assault that seeks to divide us by reason of language in a perverse way. And, therefore, there will be many, many, many ways to answer it and we will not give up on it. Let's not wait any longer to crystallize this consensus that we know exists around the language model, and strengthen it, each and every one of them close to it, but acting together. All of us, all of us, do not have to assume the responsibilities, the corresponding ones, and the consequences, of course. President, we encourage you to continue to put forward a clear strategy in defense of the Catalan school, and that is why we ask you: in which line does your government work? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.128.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, we will continue to work, first of all, in the legal and procedural fields. This game isn't over. We have resources that are in our midst that we will push forward, because above all there are sources, from the legal and technical point of view, that they endorse us. Therefore, we will work in this sense and exercise the right that we also have as the administration of the Generality in this judicial process. But this has to be done from a lot of fronts. We cannot only think that, with what is the performance or the strategy, from the point of view of the trial, from this procedure to the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, there will be enough. They need political initiative. And this government has already taken the political initiative forward. We promoted the first preliminary memorandum of what is the decree that will regulate the language rule previews the law of education of Catalonia, a law of 2009, the language rule of which, which is previewed in the law, had not been developed on a regular basis. We will do this to strengthen the current model, because it has pedagogical, academic, educational, social virtues, all the recognition and above all it is that guarantees the objectives, that when the compulsory teaching ends the students must have full knowledge and ability to use the official languages of Catalonia. From here on, it is important that the rest of the measures, as well as those corresponding to this Parliament, are completed. And the change in the language policy law is one of them – before I had the opportunity to account for it. Of course, everything that can be improved needs to be improved, but it's a tool that we shouldn't miss out on. Not using it today can make us penetrating tomorrow. And we need to remember that the learning of languages is not of percentages, but it has to have an educational model that guarantees this learning. The sentence responds to an ideological will, in no case to a pedagogical will. But we'll have to do a lot more. We would also be wrong if we focused all the defense of the language at school only in what is this judicial procedure. It's a lot more over there. And, therefore, we will continue to push and pull the catalá pulse to the schools of Catalonia, so that we can strengthen their learning, that we can strengthen their social use, because it is the best guarantee that everyone has the ability to use it and, therefore, that they have knowledge in this language. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.129.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the provision of additional measures to deal with the consequences of the war between Ukraine and Russia]] [[317-00158/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.130.0	Good morning. Madam President, Mr Aragonès... There was, in this session of control – and this is not the first time – some allusions, all very kind, to my person, and I would like to share an initial reflection, with all respect to everyone. And I don't like to give lessons; I don't like to give lessons here either. What people expect of us – is the reflection I want to share with you – is that we solve problems. That's what the people of us are waiting for. I'm on my way, Mr. Aragones. This morning we celebrated the Day of Europe and we lamented that it was seventy-five days ago that we had war in Ukraine. To face the consequences of this unjust war, all the countries, all the administrations, have taken action. These same days, there is a _sixth package of economic sanctions in Europe. This next sale is predicting that the Council of Ministers will limit the price of gas to lower the price of electricity. And last week a decree was validated at the Congress of Deputies of €16,000_million to deal with these consequences. Certainly, with the vote against your group. This same chamber, this same Parliament, a few weeks ago we validated a decree of measures of your government, correct, but under my insufficient point of view. Certainly with the vote in favour of my group. At two meetings that you convened with parliamentary groups, you asked us to make proposals. And we did. We haven't heard any more. Mr. Aragones, do you plan to take additional measures to deal with the consequences of the war? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.132.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, yes, they're working on the Social Dialogue Council, which is what I compromised. At the meeting of parliamentary groups, if you remember it perfectly – and I am convinced that it is so – we said that there would be no work at the Council of Social Dialogue with employers and trade unions; the measures, above all, which relate to the impact of inflation, energy prices, the impact on the supply chains. And, as soon as these are advanced, we'll transfer them to the groups to try to get the effort and agreement shared. And we're working on this. I read his proposals very carefully. His proposals add up to 2,000 million dollars of expenditure. If we don't increase the deficit target, what has the Spanish government refused to do until now, how do you plan to pay for it? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.133.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.134.0	You'll be back for a year, the confidence of this chamber to do something and it's not doing it. You've regained confidence to rule, and you don't. He doesn't rule. I don't just ask him to do it, but I'm offering to help him do it. Diagnosis today, weights, but decide, act and do things. For example, in renewable energy; in the Cua d'Espanya. For example, in the field of vocational training; 20,000 students were left without a place the year before; 7,000 did not set up the table. In short, according to our calculations, 38,000. For example, in the subject of the dependency list. For example, in the matter of the enterprises that go from the province of Lleida to the Aragó. And, if we start a job with parliamentary groups, we're not supposed to have an answer for what we've done. I have spoken many times of self-requirement; I would not want to talk about lack of competence. And one last question about the català. Note, please, one thing: when the PSC signs an agreement, it completes it. You bring the agreement to the plenary, and you know what we're gonna do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.136.0	Thank you, President. Well, they didn't bail me out, because it's obvious... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm trying to answer them, if they let me talk. It is obvious that if you plant a program of expenses – many of them, which we can agree on – that have an impact of 2,000_million..., this is not achieved with internal transfers of the assumption. And whoever you've managed a presupposition, even if it's a small joint, you know, you know, you know perfectly well. Therefore, here too, it takes a little intellectual honesty. It is clear that we need to increase resources and we can only make them like governments in a situation of war, which is via debt. What's the problem? That our debt is not decided by us, it is decided by the Government of the State. That is why we said: "Increasing to u percent the floor of deficit. But we go to some of the fears that you have commented. Renewable energy. Now it's a year ago, thirty megawatts to public display, now more than 1,200. So the projects are moving forward. And I recognize that we have work to do in this area – I recognize that we have work to do. But we have made a new law decree, and we are, therefore, also adapting the legislation so that we can precisely have this distributed model and this model with wind and photovoltaic parks, not of a giant size, but of size adapted to the territory. Vocational training. We have increased, this year, thirty-four_per_cent places in vocational training. So this government is working. The other thing is that you obviously, like no opposition, are interested in making them see no. And we have the highest self-requirement – we have it – and we do not tend to derive responsibilities from others. But that's why we also want to have all the tools. And for the time being, the tools that hold them don't give them to us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.137.0	Yes, Mrs. Change, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.138.0	President, let us ask the paragraph of our parliamentary group to, according to Rule 90 of the Rules, invite an observation, because we believe that during the monitoring session some interventions have violated some articles, on 14 and 15, regarding equal treatment and discrimination of the people of Catalonia, specifically the criminalization of immigration, considered a fundamental right, as..., pardon, the criminalization of immigration, which violates a fundamental right such as equal treatment and discrimination. And, please, we would appreciate that this observation is taken into account to determine whether this violation of these articles has been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.139.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As you know, I have remembered on numerous occasions the obligation of all the Members of this House to have the right to understand, according to the citizenry, according to the laws that are in force, and also with the code of conduct to which you now refer. Thank you very much. [[Discussion on Youth Emancipation]] [[255-00004/13]] After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, which is the debate on youth emancipation. And in accordance with Rule 156, this debate will be governed by Articles 154 and 155 of the Rules and the hourly sequence agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons. As it is done on the initiative of five parliamentary groups, the five proposing groups will intervene in the first place for a maximum of three minutes each. The first word is Mrs Mireia Dionisio, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.140.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Members. Many good morning also to the National Council of Youth of Catalonia and to the youth organizations that accompany us today, and especially a fraternal greeting to the Young Socialists of Catalonia. Obviously, as it could not be in any other way, from our parliamentary group, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, we wanted to begin our intervention by showing our satisfaction with the celebration of this monographic plenary to talk about youth, to talk about youth emancipation, because we consider that it is a completely necessary and urgent plethora. Let us expect a great deal of things from this House, but it is clear that, as we only have three minutes, we would like to summarise our priorities in three things that we consider to be completely essential. In the first place, this Ple has to be used to give a radical turn, a turn of one hundred and forty degrees, to how it is understood and how young people's policies apply. They can't be seen as sectoral policies, as second-hand policies that only affect a part of the population, because it's not true. Youth policies, youth policies must be and are structural policies of the country, because it is obvious that these policies directly affect which model of society we will have in the future. It is obvious that the rights that we can guarantee today to our young people will determine which Catalonia we will have tomorrow. Second of all, what do we expect from this House? Let us hope that this ple gift responds to a social emergence, because the situation that they carry many years of living and young people in Catalonia is already a critical situation. We need to remember that they bear a patent on the economic consequences of the 2008 economic crisis, the social and health economic crisis of the covid. And these economic crises, together with the, from our point of view, political inaction of the last few years, have generated that we have such harsh and cruel claims that we have the lowest emancipation rate of the last hundred years. Finally, let us hope that this House will be a useful model of policy. Proposals to become reality will be approved. I can't go back to what happened in 2013 when a monogram ple was first made and the proposals were left in the coven of the then Government of Convergence and Union and with the external support of the Republican Left. Young people in Catalonia need solutions, and we are willing to give them there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.141.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.142.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, to aggravate above all the work and attendance of the representatives of the youth entities who have employed and worked for so long because this monographic plenary is finally possible: the National Youth Council of Catalonia, which has led a lot of this bet bringing together all the parliamentary groups so that we understand the importance of talking to enough youth, and obviously, as it cannot be otherwise, the youth organisations of the independent left, such as the SEPC, La Forja and Arran. Why don't we just talk about young people's policies? So why to talk about youth policies is to talk about the future, yes, but above all it is to talk about the present, about the present that we are building or destroying, the present that determines the future of the country; the future that most young people will not tend to, because a present that is precarious is a future dynamism. And the young man sees his opportunities to develop vital projects, not just individual projects, but collective and community projects, with political, economic and social stakes for the air, to put out fires, to put down sticks and, above all, to support and perpetuate an exploitative socio-economic system that benefits the old and exploits the same. And, obviously, seeing these causes them discomfort; youthful discomfort which, moreover, has a heavy impact on the mental health of the young, which, above all, when they rise up to confront the consequences of these neoliberal and short-sighted policies, the answer they receive is repression on the part of the Government and the State. A youthful malaise that is the expression of an experiential precariousness. Why would anyone wonder why we're talking about youthful discomfort or why this youthful adjective is added? Our answer is that there are social dynamics of capitalism that specifically affect youth and are closely related to the causes of shared discomfort. So, to talk about youth policies, we need to talk about many things, but above all about development possibilities, denouncing the increase in the cost of life that makes it impossible; we need to talk about the industrial and tourism model, which is and will be the basis of the development of the country's youth's lives; we need to talk about the repression of the young man who fights this destructively from the point of view of this government and the former, and obviously we need to talk about the defense of the Catalan language, and so we will do in our own interventions. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.143.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.144.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again to everyone and everyone. And also give welcome to the young people who accompany us and who, above all, have stepped into the celebration of this Ple. To talk about youth is, above all, to talk about the social fracture that the country suffers in terms of precariousness and inequality; it is to talk about the future and the talent that is being lost in our country, and it is also talking about a world that is advancing or, better said, falling back, of an economic crisis in an economic crisis, of a war in a pandemic, at a time when it is also riding on an ecological crisis. Therefore, talking about young people and talking about the future is talking about the labour market and how, despite the fact that youth has been reduced to a deu_per_cent, we are still leading this post from the shame of all of Europe. Talking about young people and talking about the future is talking about housing and how it does not guarantee the right of emancipation or of forming a family to those who want to form a family, and it has become a race of obstacles. Talking about young people and talking about the future is talking about our health care system and that, despite the adventures we had in negotiating the presuppositions for mental health, there are still not enough public psychologists to attend to everyone who needs it. Talking about young people and talking about the future is also talking about political participation, how we avoid this generational tap that turns the scene to innovation, criticism and the best ideas of two or three generations that are literally offended. In short, talking about youth is talking about the country model and the world we are offering. Therefore, it is one of the most uplifting debates we can have. And the paradox is that, surely, most of the young people we want to address, so they're not listening to us today. But it's not today or the day. Because we follow the larger question that has been made to the State about youth and that has been recently published, the ninety-two per cent – the ninety-two per cent – of the polls think that their opinion matters between few or nothing to politics. And what did that translate into? So it turned out that the noranta_per_cent of young people, new to each one of them, say they feel represented between little and nothing by political parties. And that too often ends up, obviously, in despair, in scepticism, when the young people, their talent and their hope are the most needed in our country. Therefore, it is certain that today in this House we will present resolutions, vote resolutions, but I believe that it is less about talking about how we are concerned and using more of the official diary of the Generality; of adopting impact measures to raise one of the most important pillars of our country that is falling apart, such as the social ascent; less about climate crisis and more about eco-planning; less about empathizing with all the people who suffer mental health and more about public psychology so that they serve everyone they need; less about the right to housing and more about social lysing. And so, maybe, just like that, one day we'll get all those people that we want to represent in listening to us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.145.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.146.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, guests. We have started this long-awaited monographic debate on youth emancipation, complimenting one of the most important agreements of the Government of the Generality that agreed the previous year and one of the priorities of the defences of the 1st for Junts for Catalonia, with the support, in addition, of the National Youth Council of Catalonia and with the majority of the parliament of this chamber. Let me, therefore, welcome the companies and companies of the Secretariat of the National Youth Council of Catalonia, but also to the youth entities to which today we give you. In fact, as we have already translated with the request of the Single European Act and with the subsequent declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia, we added to the European Year of Youth, but also to the Catalan Year of Youth, to put them in the centre and to bring their reality into the parliamentary debate. And, in fact, to implement politically these two days, in today's debate and in the debate tomorrow that we demand that the Parliament of Catalonia make new years that did not devote a specific plethora to young people, with a context totally parallel to the current reality. In fact, the pandemic of the covid-19 – we're just starting to put it back – has demonstrated the many shortcomings, needs, including concerns we have for the country's young people. In fact, as a result of this ill-named youth precariousness, often related to young people, the structural inequalities that already existed and that have worsened part of the problems, such as the difficulty of access to housing, such as lack of employment, such as training, access to university, the protection of mental health, or, between a long, etcetera, culture and language, under the constant intrusion of the courts, as we have seen these past hours, with the will to judicialize, also, català. These are some of the many examples to which we want to respond, and do so with a perspective and a cross-sectional view from political action, increasing, yes, the public housing park of social loguer; giving major job opportunities with a shoc plan to combat youth development; also bringing training closer, making it through equity and reducing university public prices, but also through other policies that we have agreed with youth political association. And, as always, from Junts per Catalunya we will do so by putting young people at the centre of public policies, at the centre of the debate, at the centre of the political agenda, with a cross-cutting look at the policies of the Government, one hundred and a hundred young people, who work without stigmas, without repression and without labels. In short, for a Catalonia that says yes to young people's opportunities, let's start this monographic debate about youth emancipation, because the success of this job will be a victory for all nine generations. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.147.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.148.0	Thank you, President. President, counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... but above all welcome to all the youth entities that are accompanying us today and that it is also a waste to say that it is thanks to you that today we are celebrating this monogram. Imagine that you haven't secured access to the world of work and that, in the last two years, your band's salary has been reduced by a 20_per_cent, and that a noranta_per_cent of your collection has a temporary contract. Imagine that in order to be independent, you have to dedicate a half a hundred percent of your self and that eighty percent of all of you have to live at the home of your parents. Imagine that the first cause of death of your collection was suicide, twice as many deaths from trafficking. Imagine that ever since you were practically born you have grown up between economic and social crises and that, moreover, you are criminalized on certain occasions, as during the restrictions of covid-19. And now I'm asking you a question: what do you think would happen if these data represented you to all of you? So that would surely be the center of debate of all political spaces, the main line and concern of all public policies, obviously according to their state of greatest gravity. But that's not it. These data refer to the population from seven to twenty-nine years, and here they are a minority. The question is that for a long time it has tended to normalize, justify or obviate this precariousness of life that they are young. For the Republican Left there are no first and second citizens. There is constant work to break all stereotypes and discriminations that prevent life worthy of all people, obviously regardless of their age. Paradoxically, this very population teaches us every day the meaning of collective intelligence, with continuous mobilizations on issues that do not only affect them, but also the rest of the population. A current example: the Batec collection, which should sound to us all. That's why Republican Lefters don't just demand that they be part of this political agenda, but also write it; from the streets, but also from the institutions. What? So, for example, with the right to vote from the age of sixteen. A special mention here to the Youth Policy Commission, which I have the honour to chair, a tool that must be used to write this political agenda. And that's what goes right: right to a life project; right to young people in this country can decide to stay alive in the village, in the municipality that has seen them grow up; right to association; right to education; right to housing; right to a decent job; right to be a woman, young, working class and give an opinion without saying to you, child, or without having to raise your voice because you are being escorted and then defined as a historian. Why did we ask for this monogram? Because it's time to put the young people in the political debate center. Because there are still people who define them as citizens of the future. They're, I'm more present than ever, because this is your day-to-day win. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.149.0	Subsequently, and in accordance with Rule 201.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as requested by the proposed parliamentary groups, the President of the Secretariat of the National Youth Council of Catalonia will speak in plenary on the subject of this debate. So, I donate the word to Mrs. Julia Rosanna Sánchez-Valverde. The President of the Secretariat of the National Youth Council of Catalonia ( Julia Rosanna Sánchez-Valverde ) President of Parliament, President of the Generality, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, Companies and Companies, today the majority of young people in this country do not know that there is a monographic plethora in Parliament that speaks of them. Why? Young people often don't feel called into politics and politics, especially because it's almost not about us. If we don't ask for the four winds at the end of a monographic ple that speaks of us, in this chamber it's hardly talking about youth and our problems. The country's young people have grown up in two big economic and social crises: the well-known crisis of 2007 and the recent crisis of covid-19. As they say sometimes, we're the scar generation. And, it matters, they are crises of an economic and patriarchal system that does not leave the fact of living at the end of the list. We live in an individualistic and competitive system. A system that leads us to think of our own survival, even at the expense of others. But, back to the crises, has the problem been only these crises? In part, yes; but not just. We have to assume all the responsibilities. The problem is also which policies you have had to complete policies to guarantee the rights of all in these periods. And we know that, young people's policies have shone for their absence. Will he still feel that way? Let's talk about young people and life. We want to talk about life, because from the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, unfortunately, we have had to talk about mass death. For years now we have been reporting an discomfort that we feel and that is manifesting with some very worrying facts: suicide is the first cause of unnatural death among young people. And that's just the tip of an iceberg that got bigger, while public sanitation got smaller. More than forty associations are already telling us this April: salvation was not that. More public spending to strengthen the public health system. The state of mental salvation is not a problem that we have because we are millennials or a little Z-generation prepared; on the contrary, we are one of the most prepared generations of history, even overqualified. We are many – not all – university students, masters or graduate students, but we cannot access stable jobs connected to our formation and vocation; unfortunately, that does not happen. The tourist tax is the highest in Europe and we have already normalized that having a decent job is a privilege of very few. We are surprised when a company or company obtain an indefinite contract, when they pay everything they owe, when they contribute correctly, when they respect their labor rights. This, add to the need to say something, to do something about it, to ignore it in the matter and to punish it. That's why we also need strong unions. And if we find work to cost and we have to conform to precarious work, we often have to do this many years living at the home of our parents, because it is not possible for us to emancipate ourselves and access a decent habitation. The gradual increase in the rate of youth emancipation and speculation has led to a minimal historical increase in the rate of youth emancipation. All this brings us to a state of youth emergency. We are here today because, as a platform of youth associations, we are clear that organizations and networks can change a reality that denies us, that from the intersection of ideas and the conviction of collective and popular power we can make possible a present worthy for all young people, especially the most vulnerable. This is why, from the point of view of logic, we have built proposals for changes for young people today and tomorrow; proposals to strengthen the public services of the country; to guarantee equal opportunities for all young people who want to build individual and collective life projects and cannot wait for two years; proposals that do not need a very difficult task of priority. How to prioritize some requests for others, when all are needed to combat our current situation? But we did. From the historical requests of the National Youth Council of Catalonia and from the evidence, with data at the end, we have prioritized three axes that are closely connected between them: occupation, housing and mental health. And in relation to these three axes we also want, on the part of the parliamentary groups, terrified proposals. We don't want philosophy, we want real agreements and commitments that aren't left in paper mullat. We're talking about housing. We need a parliament and a government compromised with young people, their rights and specifically with the right to housing, since the violation of this right carries violations of other rights. We can only see the study that we have developed and published together with the DESC Observers, "Young lodgers and right to housing 2020, we can see the difficult situation that young people are experiencing and that, unfortunately, is fully in force. Data from this X-ray show that young people have to allocate one hundred_twenty_per_cent of wages to the loguer, that fifty-six_per_cent of young people expect them to change their habitat, mainly for economic reasons, and that also fifty-six_per_cent of young people claim to have suffered abuse. The X-ray shows that we've collected 2020. But we need periodic data. This is why we consider it relevant and ask for a system of data and indicators on young complete, specific, cross-sectional, public access, open format and scale that captures the different territorial reality. We do not only need advice, necessary information to defend our rights, we ask to incorporate new lines of advice, communication and information focused on young people so that we can facilitate the processes, for example, for the renewal of the loguers, or registration to access an official protection habitat and emergency habitats. But these requests are not enough if they are not accompanied by other policies. We need to know what rights and options we have, but we also need compromise and political and administrative action. Thus, we ask for the impetus of a public park of social housing for young people. Currently we are around the '1,5_per_cent of social housing, a clearly insufficient percentage. This is why we ask the Administration to work to ensure thirty percent of the total social housing for young people. As such, it is essential that this increase in the public housing stock be accompanied by changes in the official protection housing regulations and in the months of emergence, in order to remove barriers and requirements that exclude young migrants without residence permits, non-patronates, or who do not have a pattern of antiquity. At the same time, we consider it necessary to promote housing policies, beyond the purchase and the logger. Alternative models must be able to see'scom to clear alternatives to live. We call for a fair regulation of student residences and major schools for young people, which passes to tax the emerging offer of university residences, respect to which there is no public information or published. And all these requests don't make sense if they don't go along with regulatory policies. That is why we must continue to struggle to contain and moderate the price of the logger in all those areas which, for their territorial characteristics, must be accompanied by coherent regulations. We don't have to forget all the fighting that took place with social workers in Catalonia. But we'll be back for a while. In order to emancipate us, we need to work, and not work in any way. The poor of people who work is a reality and it's troubling. We find ourselves in front of a scene of quasi-structural precariousness, which has settled into life and in the imaginations of the present and future of all those that we see in labor and vital instability a utopia that will need to fight a lot to get there. Let's start from the beginning. The legal age to start working is seventeen years. It coincides with the completion of compulsory secondary education. We are surprised that, even at this very important impasse, we do not understand with care that it is a contract, a name, a release or what right we have. That's why we ask and defend the need to include a formative recourse in basic labour rights to ESO, which moves from the hands of social agents represented in the theme, both trade unions and educators. Next, it is inevitable to talk about training and work practices: violation re-inflation, starting with non-remuneration for fetal work. In order to analyse the actual and up-to-date situation of young people in practical ways, it is necessary to draw up a single register of the work and training practices that many people in the youth community have completed. This demand, claimed four years ago for the young associate, must be the starting point for the dignity of these working people who are in practice. And professional training? And the offer of vocational training at the territorial level? It is a clear bet for the dignity of this training option, which, moreover, presupposes a clear gateway to the world of work, a gateway to the world of work very directly and where more violations are seen. We ask that there be an effective offer of public vocational training throughout the territory, a curriculum awarded and worked with relevant social agents and a major investment to ensure quality education. In relation to active policies on occupation, as we can forget about the Youth Guarantee program! A program that we consider deficient, representing, in the end, a glue that does not solve structural problems. Thus, we ask for a youth guarantee that takes into account the different perspectives of young people's lives, as well as focusing on structural policies, which must be addressed according to the various collections: the genera, the social class, the origin and the territory on which they live. All this would not be understood without the defence and promotion of the social and solidary economy among young people, so that they know the characteristics of this economic model in terms of social justice and democracy. And, finally, we are talking about mental salvation, a subject that is at the focus of political topicality, after all. But we don't have enough words. We must walk towards the reinforcement of public health and mental health care centres, but we must also promote community prevention, the social support network and collective perspectives on individualists. Changing the paradigm and breaking the stigma is impossible without reversal, without believing that professional formats and terrains of the territory fall. We're talking about treatments, not just visits that go off and donating drugs without answering the phone call. I need to listen and hear and know how to accompany in time. In this line, we ask that there be a training offer on youth suicides at the country's detention centres and prevention plans with a young perspective. At the same time, public campaigns to raise awareness of mental health and the prevention of juvenile suicide continue to combat the stigma and taboo that surrounds this theme, as well as to generate studies, indicators and data on the mental health of young people. But we also need more resources. The pandemic we've experienced has shown us how the retail has weakened our public sanitation system. It is necessary to increase spending in health care, and, from the hand, to promote programs focused on the follow-up of young majors of division years so that they are the right follow-up in the transition between infanthood and adulthood. It's the end of the game. As a young man organized, we have proved to be a pro-active and purposeful young man, who does not accept reality or violations and puts solutions on the table. Now it's up to you to show what the bet is for the youth of this country, who are the priorities of each of you, and also to show that not all will remain in this monographic plenary, that the agreements that emerge from it will continue. Demonstration that they bet for a present worthy of the young. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.150.0	So thank you very much. And then, for the government's part, has the word, first of all, the President of the Generalitat, the very honorable Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.151.0	Good morning, President of Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, members of the National Youth Council of Catalonia, starting with the President and all representatives of young people who are present with us today; also secretaries, Director General of Youth, responsible for the remaining policies of Youth and also parliamentary representatives, who also bring the youth agenda to the European Parliament and to the Congress of Deputies. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the Parliament of Catalonia for having gathered the demand of the National Youth Council of Catalonia and, therefore, for celebrating this plenary of this debate on youth emancipation. And I thank the President of the National Youth Council for her words, which..., and I don't do it as a thank you..., which is an empty thank you, but aware that she asks us, aware that she subraises the requests and demands of the young man of our country, to whom the institutions carry many years without giving a complete and adequate answer. Work has been done, but obviously a lot of work remains to be done. You have highlighted in Parliament the difficulties, the shortcomings, the reptes and the problems that limit today the young people of our country, the young people of our country; they limit the energy, the potential and their freedom. There is a sentence I hope in this Ple is not said. Anyway, it's a wish, and we'll prove it at the length of the debate. It's often said that young people are the future. And this is sometimes said and has a very clear consequence, which is: this sentence can be the perfect excuse not to address the precariousness of the youth of our country. So, young people, young people are the present. Your precariousness is the present, we must give you an answer and we cannot resign from this responsibility by transferring it to a future that the passage of time or years in personal life will solve things. Therefore, we are very and very clear. Because only acting on the present can we have some right to talk about the future that we offer to the young people of our country. Therefore, there is a first fundamental idea, which is empowerment; the empowerment of the young people of our country is fundamental. This debate is also a passage in this sense. But because it is possible to bring to term, therefore, what is this empowerment of political character, the proper material conditions are essential and, therefore, a clear bet for youth emancipation policies; a clear bet for all those public services that allow us to improve formation, to improve the insertion in the world of the work of the conjunction of our city, and especially of the young people of our country. And, therefore, that this serves not only to improve the young people's living conditions, but also to improve those of the society's joint venture. Also the young man of our country, apart from this potential for emancipation, the need to reverse the precariousness in the field of housing, in the work area, in the format field, in the vital field that they have their transformative capacity, you have also made alerts to us that question not only your own situation as a collection, but the joint venture of society. Today we would not have a society conscious of the urgency of climate change, if the young people of our country had not shown their commitment clearly. Today's feminism would not appeal to the set of public policies and decisions of this Parliament and this Government too, if the young people had not broken glass sutures with the change of mind and with the question that comes to us at the meeting of the city. And today we would not have been able to visualize so many different forms of being and feeling, without the courage of young people who break every day with standard standards that have determined previous generations and that today you are willing to break. There are only three examples; beyond a necessary debate on the concrete material conditions of emancipation that we must bring to completion today, there are also three examples of the transforming force of young women in our country. We are also very aware that the young man is not a homogeneous whole. It is true that there is a thread that connects the majority of young people in our country, the total practice, that is this precariousness in the workplace, access to housing, and, therefore, the difficulties to pull forward the project of life, with limitations that we have had in the educational field, in the format environment. But we also know that this precariousness is more intense in the case of young women, and in the case of migrating young women, and in the case of poor young women. And this poor, this difference, this inequality, it also produces internally from the own collection. And, therefore, we must bear in mind, too, in the resolutions adopted, that the young man is not a homogeneous whole. But also, while underlining these difficulties, we must put into value the full potential and compromises of our country's youth, because it is true that on the part of some parliamentary groups, institutional policy, the debates of this Parliament do not arouse the interest of the young people of our country; nor on the part of the rest of the citizenry, let us admit it. In this sense, in some cases young people are no exception. But this does not mean that the young man of our country is not fully involved in social transformation. He does not mean that he has resigned from collective responsibility. Every day, in all the barrels, in all the villas, in all the cities of the country, we find examples of young people who are involved in transforming the most appropriate reality, which is involved, for example, in the trade union sphere, in the political sphere too, often outside conventionalism or in the more traditional structures, but also in the educational sphere. An example I had this end of the week last week, in which I was able to participate in a gathering of more than 3,500 children. There were 3,500 children, but there were hundreds of young people who dedicate their time to improving their education, to school in the city, and they do so with a transformative vocation. And this, in a mercantilitated society, it seems that every contribution must have monetary compensation, when this is done by vocation, by volition of service, by voluntarily transformative, by compromise with the rest of society and of the citizenry, must be recognized. And if you don't exist, the country would have to invent it. Therefore, I would like to thank you here, sincerely, on behalf of the Government, the institutions of Catalonia, in conjunction with the youth movement, for the daily transformation that you are bringing to the end of our society. [[Greetings.]] To talk about the field of education in the classroom, but we could talk about sports clubs, also about participation in cultural entities, trade union entities, in the field of work and in the field of education and political entities. Most of these young people who are involved are working in precarious jobs, along with this compromise, these precarious jobs with studies, to help throw away their family, their family cores, too, forward. Therefore, this Ple must also be a recognition of the role of young people in our society. But this, too, this recognition, must not obviate the questions raised clearly by the National Youth Council. On the other hand, the questions you posed about the table have also been proposed for the past few years: problems of access to housing, job insecurity, problems of format. I would like to place some data which we are asked about in the decisions we have to take, presuppositionary policies and also in the sphere of Parliament and the Government. With data from the past year, eighty-two percent of Catalans and Catalans between seventeen and twenty-nine years live with the family – eight of each of them. The youth emancipation rate in Catalonia is at 18.2_per_cent, far from the European average, which is 30-u_per_cent. And this difference is also explained by the differences that exist on the labour market and on the housing market. Young people from Finland and Denmark emancipated from mid-January in the twenty-first year. The young Catalans are playing midjana at twenty-nine, three years later than the European midjana. And that's not a decision, that's a situation where they're forced to delay emancipation until this age. It's not a free decision of young people not to emancipate themselves before, because they just can't do it. And, therefore, the country's joint administration has the responsibility to put everything in our hands to start reversing these figures. Obviously, there is a strong influence on economic factors such as job insecurity, difficulties in accessing housing, and the evolution of housing prices. This lack of future, accelerated also in a pandemic in which we have demanded a lot from the young people of our country, who have given it all and that we must give thanks once more..., but this lack of expectations generates frustration, despondency, apathy, affects emotional well-being and mental salvation, which will then also be discussed by the Councillor of Youth, the Councillor Cervera. They took precise steps, therefore, from the covid-19, they completed, they carried out measures that limited the activity of young people and, therefore, they also affected their state of life. Let me make a point in the field of youth tourism, one of the structural problems of our country. In the first quarter of 2022, the 25.33_per_cent of the young people who are in the active population from seven to twenty-i-four years, fifteen points per over the global sky rate. One young man out of four who wants to work can't do it. Seventy-eight_thousand young to the lists of the atur; absolutely unjustifiable. We've taken measures. The Department of Enterprise and Work, through the Service of Occupation of Catalonia, we have set up a contract program for young unemployed people, through a call of 125_million euros, that they will be able to choose enterprises, autonomies, co-operatives of work and entities without work. It is 125_million euros from the React funds that must allow the contracting of seventy_ thousand young people without work. In parallel to these measures to encourage young people to contract, it is important to strengthen our production system, to boost the changes that enhance their sustainability, to be stable, to be productive, to be resilient, to be able to generate quality jobs, and to move towards a greener and circular economy, more digitised, more innovative, with greater equity of gender and territorial balance. To do so it is also essential to enhance professional training, to prestige it. I am grateful that today the National Youth Council has put a lot of emphasis on it and that it is asking us to deepen our efforts. Professional training is essential for the progress of our economy, but it is also an essential tool to combat youth development, with a degree of employment insertion, with a level of employment insertion that is higher than..., the following months of obtaining a vocational training title, is significantly higher, the rate of insertion, which is not in the university domain– forty-two_per_cent in front of a thirty-night_per_cent. While youth was 33.4_per_cent by 2021, graduates in vocational training presented a lower level of unemployment in more than dissected points, more than half. Therefore, it indicates the path we must take to term. The Department of Education, in this sense, will make a reversal in the conjunction of the professional formation of 726_million euros this year, that we will keep the increase of the registered demand last year. It increases the offer in 276 groups respect us to the initial offer of the previous year. Therefore, it grows more than in the last five years together, and in the last two years twelve thousand places of vocational training have been created. Therefore, we also transform the product model to create more and better occupation, and especially to allow entry into the labour market, with adequate training and, therefore, also, to be able to guarantee all its rights. Therefore, we must make use of all the tools we have to reduce youth, all that we have in our midst. We also need to know that we have limited resources, but obviously, the ambition is all there is and we will pursue the whole compromise. If we want to have youth emancipation figures that can be approved by the main European societies and economies, we must also be able to have more tools, more sovereignty. We must be aware that today the autonomic highway is insufficient for the potential we have as the country. I have spoken briefly – because now, therefore, the social rights adviser and, therefore, also the youth policy adviser, the Cervera counselor – will have the word of this recognition absolutely necessary to the young people of our country. We must focus this debate without paternalism. That's a risk there can be. And the best way to do that is to give the vision, the protagonistship, to the country's own youth. For this I thank the first intervention on behalf of the National Youth Council of Catalonia. This debate must be used for concrete proposals, which therefore require the Government and enable us to move forward. You don't have to stay here. It would be a mistake for us this week to close the debate, so we thought we'd done everything, that we'd complete it. It would be a mistake. Therefore, it is important that this is a turning point and that we place youth policies at the centre of the decisions of this Parliament. The government is also committed to keeping them in the center. Before giving the word, therefore, of finalizing my return and giving the word on behalf of the Bureau of Parliament to the Social Rights Council, we are very clear that the area of mental health is one of the areas that requires more attention. An extraordinary effort has been called for at the company's joint venture in the past two years for the pandemic. And the young, in a majority, have returned. They have responded with an extraordinary level of responsibility, but also with a very large personal sacrifice and collection. The country must return it; it must return it by right, because it is up to it to do so, but it must also return it in the interest of its own society, because we need that the conjunction of our country, therefore, can recover certain, can have adequate attention in all areas of its life. We have asked and asked for a very great sacrifice to young people in our country: to reduce social interaction at a vital moment when this social interaction is produced outside of what is the family environment. And that leaves a lot of trouble. I, therefore, call down measures to reverse it. But it is also true that it has accelerated, in some cases, pre-existing mental health problems, and so it has emerged with great force. In this sense, the Government is fully committed to it. Later on, more action will be taken in this area. Let us hope that the debate will be fruitful, that the assembly of Members and Members will be on the rise. The government also commits itself to being there. Many thanks to the council and to the conjunction of youth movement for your work and the struggle of each day. Thank you. Very good morning to everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.152.0	The social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, is still on the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.153.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Representatives of the National Youth Council, President of the National Youth Council, Representatives of Youth Entities, Secretaries of Children, Adolescents and Youth, Director of the Agency, Director General of Youth, Directors General, Friends and Friends, therefore, thank you very much. In the first place, let me especially thank the words of the President of the National Council of Youth, their encouraging words, which I believe at the length of the debate, and also together with the contributions of the different parliamentary groups, be able to make this point of inflection in youth policies, taking into account many of the questions, therefore, which you have raised, which the President has raised now, which I will also try to finish detailing. For once in the history of our country, in this Parliament is celebrated a monographic ple on the situation of young people in our country. The previous one – and it seems to me that Mrs Toronjo was commenting on it – was the year 2013, now nine years ago, at a time when the economic crisis started in 2007-2008 had placed the youth environment above forty per cent in our country; therefore, a very worrying situation. For these past thirteen years, our circle has been in a huge, very large uncertainty that particularly affects young people: an economic crisis that has lasted longer than two years, the pandemic of the covid or the various war conflicts in our closer circle, especially now, later on, with the crisis of Ukraine. And all these crises have directly impacted the prospects of all citizens, but especially of youth; we have constant, visible and tangible evidence. According to data from the latest EPA survey, of active population, published last week, youth tourism, for the first time in many years, down below the twenty_per_cent– is currently located in the dinosaur_per_cent–, after the sotracs experienced in the year 2020 and 2021. But in this sense – and so did the president and the president of the national council – we have evolved positively, but with a lot of nuances. The morning is that the temporality rate has gradually increased all these years, and is currently at 47.7_per_cent. That is to say, almost half the young people who have work have it as a temporary character. Therefore, precariousness continues to mark the work paths of young people and young people. In addition, job insecurity is compounded by the rise in housing prices over the past two years, since the crisis we mentioned earlier, and has led to the emancipation rate being placed in a few small histories. The novelty, therefore, in this later decade is that you may be able to work and not be able to cope with the expenses of housing and, therefore, not be able to emancipate yourself. If it's true that in the last two quarters we've experienced a boom, now even twenty per cent of young people can't establish themselves independently and pull their life plan forward. To contextualize – and the president has done so too – I think it is important to place Catalonia among the European mark. If we look at youth, the 19.1_per_cent Catalonia has contrasts with the d'Alemanya, which has 6.3; that of Denmark, which has 11.4; or that of France, which has 18.5. If we look at dropping out of school, Germany is at 10.3; France is at 8.9; and Catalonia is now at 14.8, even though we have dropped a few points, because 2008 was at 30_per_cent. I would also like to refer to the fertility rate: Catalonia is 1.2 children per woman, while Germany is 1.47 or France is 1.84. And finally, regarding the emancipation rate, in Catalonia the average age is 29.5 years, while in Germany it is 23.8 years or in France 23.6. It is obvious that we are far from the indicators of these countries. In the monogram ple of nine years ago, the challenge was to lower youth growth, but today we believe that we need to focus these efforts on emancipation. In fact, the document of applications of the National Council of Youth of Catalonia is entitled "For full youth emancipation, and thus fixed it. So being young in Catalonia today is not easy. As we say, the two consecutive crises experienced in the past few years have impacted everyone, but in a very special way before young people and young people; they have made their work journeys difficult, their ability to access housing and their ability to establish themselves independently in order to have their vital projects in place. And, as the president also said, the pandemic, moreover, prevented them from directly relating in a key period of their personal development. And, as they were not considered vulnerable or risky people, perhaps – perhaps – we have not taken them into account enough nor have we responded to their requests in a more explicit way. Another of the threats that have touched them living is also that of the climate change, a reality that will impact fully on the planet, that will touch them living especially to them. In the same way that the war in Russia and Ukraine generates a climate of human, economic and political uncertainty, which we do not know yet how much will affect our society, and therefore not the young people. In this context, the rulers have the responsibility to respond to these and other challenges that we pose, and that is why we need a country strategy that responds to these challenges, a strategy for young people and young people. Catalonia has a long trajectory of youth policies, a long and successful trajectory, yes. Although the situation is complex, we have to value the work done over the past few years: the early school drop-out rate, for example, which has improved, or the late-age rate, which has also improved. Catalonia has made youth information and accompanying young people a sign of identity. We have deployed a network of forty-four young offices, the national youth emancipation network, to attend, the year 2021, more than 300,000 youth consultations. And we've done it with our hands on the premises, through the local program contract that we co-financed so that they can be in time, with this staff, with youth and government support technicians, to deploy youth policies. We have tools, good tools, but we need to update them and direct young people's policies to a policy for young people and, above all, to a strategy, to a clear strategy. We are in a moment of drafting the new national youth plan of Catalonia, which must be a strategy of the Government addressed to young people, a strategy that, as we have said on other occasions, should focus on three concepts: work– and the president has not been talking–, home– housing– and future– the future entity of the present; not that young people follow the future, but that we must work with a look at the future. And why these three elements? Because we understand that they are the main axes that hinder emancipation and, above all, that hinder a dignified life. The job – and the president commented – with training, with a reversal of more than 726_million euros, or the SOC program to help hire unemployed young people through the 125_million euros call – I will not be there, because the president explained it. I will focus now, at these moments, on another of the slopes – and you too have planted it –: the habitation, the house. We know perfectly well that access to logging and shopping habitat is a problem for many families in our country, but it is also a problem for young people. They have a lot harder to deal with, because they face a housing market that is tense, but with a few very precarious ways – low wages, job instability – all the contrary to what it takes to acquire a habitation. At the same time we have a housing sector with little supply of logger, already conventional or protected, and, therefore, also under the pressure of price, especially to large cities like Barcelona and its metropolitan area. We also have little housing promotion, as the sector has not recovered from the last crises. The year 2006 began in Catalonia more than 127,000 habitats. The year 2008 fell to 12,000 and the year 2021 was still over 15,000. And to this we must add the difficulties to the mortgage access, still very narrow. And with the administration, we have two added problems. One, the economics. It is true that Catalonia does not have all the resources necessary to cope with all its needs, but especially in the area of housing, the provision, for example, of the state housing plan – only to give references. If 2009 the state's contribution was 100_million, this year is only 50_million. The State, in fact, neither does nor does, and these 50_millions must serve not only to cover and build habitat, but, more importantly, to cope with the difficulties that many citizens have in our country at the time of being able to pay the housing loggers. Specifically, from the department it is destined 140_million euros to donate aid to the housing logger. Of this EUR 140_million, EUR 38_million is earmarked for young people, with a formula combining logger tickets and the rent price. But another of the difficulties we also have in housing matters is legislative power. The laws approved for this Parliament, which can help to mitigate and initiate, in fact, a more opportune housing market, have been systematically recurred; such as, for example, the law of yield containment. What can we do, then, with the tools we have from the Government of Catalonia and with the means we have? In the first place, the expansion of the housing park dedicated to social logger, and, in this sense, the European foundations must be an opportunity: 160_million euros for the construction of housing in public dedicated to social logger; 30_million euros in order to be able to buy with lots and withdrawal, or promotions of the Incasòl. With these contributions we believe that we can build five thousand new dwellings in our country. We will also work for the impulse of new housing formulas that are between, also, the help of emancipation, with cooperatives, still minorities, but that are very expanding, and the implementation of tools of struggle against rural depopulation, with help in the rehabilitation of housing in rural nuclei. In the band, the Generalitat maintained the bet for the media network through a program of more than eight thousand private habitats captured for the social loguer, with about fifty_percent of the contracts signed for people to share at thirty-five years. A few months ago, in addition, we also explained that the Government will reserve twenty-five per cent of the government's publicly-built homes for young people of more than two years of age, between divided and thirty-five years. But today I also want to announce that all those promotions due to completion through grants from European funds will also favor those promotions that have among their requirements at least reserve the twenty-five percent of their habitats for young people. And, finally, the third great axis of this strategy, which must also be for young people, and we marked it in the future vis-à-vis the present. We can't let future generations have even more expectations than their parents. We can't let frustration permeate today's young people's hopes and that it's turned, in addition, into an emotional malaise and malaise. In the same way that we are a country that does not want to leave anyone behind, we cannot allow any of our young people to take steps back into their vital trajectory. That is why we would push for measures to improve access to the formation of our young people, such as the downsizing announced by Constellera Geis of Priests to public universities. All levels of high and middle specialty and enabled masters will have a cost around the euros per credit. At this point, let me also make an incise respecting the situation of the català. In order to increase the use of Catalan language among young people, we are promoting training programmes and economic aid so that young people believe in Catalan language in social networks, with the aim of increasing the quality and diversity of youth content in Internet networks. We are also promoting programs such as Volunteering for Language, in order to promote the practice of català between conversations between equals, making special emphasis on the channel and the usual communication systems between young people. And, besides, from the Department of Social Rights, we are about to sign agreements with communication media in the country so that we can offer discounts to subscriptions through the Young Carnet, with the aim of facilitating young people's access to quality information and promoting reading. To ensure that children and adolescents of vulnerable families at risk of social exclusion are admitted to cologne and couples, we have also expanded the number of scholarships from EUR 600,000 to EUR 850,000. It is an aid that can help to benefit two thousand children and adolescents. Moreover, we do not want to forget young people who have difficulties because they suffer from some type of disability, and therefore this year there will also be a new call of €300,000 to hire monitors and monitors specialized for the participation of children and adolescents and young people with disabilities in their activities. And we'll also push a shoal for adolescence. We believe that adolescence is also one of the great oblivions. We talk a lot of childhood and we talk a lot of youth, but adolescence is the moment when there is the urge to stop being little to be big, and we think we need to have a special look. Therefore, we want to make a plan to care for just the children, young teenagers of our country. I would also like to refer to the problems of young people in emotional salvation and in their mental salvation, as has also been repeated on various occasions. We will work in a coordinated way to ensure emotional well-being. One of the lines of action, in fact, is the transformation of attention to the mental health of infants and young people, as a priority and special area of relevance that must allow us to be closer and more accessible to children and young people. Because the crisis of the Covid, as we said, which has violently shaken us as society, has represented an impact initially more invisible, but also very strong, on young people. A sector that we considered less vulnerable to the virus, but which ended up feeling more because of the restrictions imposed. In the sector of the population that is at a vital moment and that asks to relate to the others, social distancing has been destructive for their emotional salvation. The problems, therefore, of mental salvation, many of them latent previously, because already there are, have now become visible in this cruel pandemic. In this impact of the pandemic, the data are also quite revealing. The year 2020, Catalonia's health survey, the Esca, shows us significant statistical differences compared to 2019. 13,7_percent of women aged 15 and older suffer from major or severe depression. The year 2019 was 9.6. And 10.6 of the infants from four to fourteen years are likely to suffer some mental health problem. The 18th and 19th were in 7.5. Infants in lower-favourite social classes have higher odds than those in lower-favourite social classes. During the pandemic, the child and youth mental health centres, the CSMIJ, increased in twenty-i-u_per_cent cases of eating disorders. Increase psychiatric emergencies in young people due to attempted self-injuries or behavioral alterations and adult hospitalization. In summary, the health crisis was accompanied by an economic and social crisis that has a great impact on the mental health and emotional well-being of the population, and especially of the young population. Six steps that will be taken by the government, along with those that can be approved, so, in this monogram ple, to transform the attention of mental health into infants and young people. The first, the creation of fifty-two new interdisciplinary teams of crisis care at home that will give coverage to the whole territory. The second, the functional inn of two community teams of intensive attention to complexity for adolescents and young people: mental health disorder and addictions, people with intellectual disabilities, people with autistic spectrum disorder or with a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and behavioral disorder. Third, adapt and reorient the functioning and organization of mental health centers. Fourth, strengthen the comprehensive approach to child and youth sexual abuse and abuse and incorporate prevention strategies. And, in this sense, it is worth highlighting the Barnahus project, which the Department of Social Rights will implement throughout Catalonia. And this model, which is told by the children's home, which will have a twenty-and-four hour service on 365 days of the year, is precisely the non-revictimization of the adolescent, but above all the non-contamination of the evidence. Strengthen attention to mental health problems and addictions, also in primary care, and, finally, the plan to prevent suicide 21-25, which aims to avoid loss of life due to suicide death and improve the resilience and well-being of the people's mental salvation. Thus, policies aimed at the young population have and must have an eminently cross-sectional character. And it is for this reason that we believe it is necessary to rethink and reformulate some of the tools we have to work across the board with the rest of the departments. One is the Interdepartmental Youth Policy Commission, which we need to make it more representative, more operational, so that it can reach all those needs. Also, the past National Youth Congress, held in March, talked about ordering better to be able to communicate more effectively all these policies. We need to review the law of youth policies. A new law adapted to the strategy, to the strategy of the future, adapted to the current reality of young people and young people in the context that has touched them living, which is different from that of two years ago. In short, the world is today a more hostile, uncertain and insecure place. For the first time, these generations of young people have worse expectations than their peers, who were the first generation to be born in a more stable and future world. It's worth hearing this reality. We live in a paternalist, adult centerist society, and we need to connect with your discomfort. That we're still more empathetic than ever, and we're at risk of expanding the ladder and suffering a generational fracture. And that we are following more forcefully and generously with the necessary measures that we will have to take to address the main problems that you pose to us in order to attend to this present and future. It is, yes, of a reptile of country that asks us all and all that we are here today in this hemisphere. We need large, long-term, policy-based collective pacts that have a real impact on the key aspects of our young man's life. The future of our country depends, to a good extent, on the answers we give here today; some answers for the future seen from the present. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.154.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let us continue the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, who will fix their position with a time of fifteen minutes for each of the groups. It will begin, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.155.0	Thank you very much, President. President, advisors and advisors, deputies and deputies, very good morning to all. What an honor and pride to be able to participate in the monogram in the matter of youth of the Parliament of Catalonia that today occupies us. Since it has not been precisely an easy task to arrive until the realization of this one, today we must begin by giving thanks to some and some of the people responsible for today's production of this monogram ple. First of all, thank you to the National Youth Council: you have always been a little bit short of the dog; you have agreed five parliamentary groups to work on minimum agreements, which is not always easy; you have worked and you have persevered a lot at all times. Thanks in particular to Guillermo Chirino, who started this stage, and thanks in particular to the speaker who addressed us today, to you, Julia, for your intervention today and for your full dedication to getting to where we were able to get to today in this plenary. You've made it easier and that's also your responsibility. Also, in a very special way, giving thanks to the youth political organisations that are accompanying us today, because the fact that they are here today in this Parliament means that they feel directly questioned about the issue that we are dealing with today. And our most special thanks are for the Socialist Youth of Catalonia, not only because it is the German political organization of the PSC, which also, obviously – and, moreover, because it is personally the organization that I am still part of – but for all the work that you have done before arriving here and all the work that you do every day. Many times this work is not seen, or it is not all that you really are doing behind, it seems invisible, and other, in political activism outside of institutional responsibilities, many times we have the doubt of whether we do one thing..., perhaps it is seen, but we do not know if it is much useful or perhaps it is little useful. Well, you can be convinced and convinced that if we can talk, debate and approve new proposals for Catalan youth and that so much good is a reality for Catalan society, that will be because the great leaders of this tape will be the Young Socialist. It can be a very important day in this Parliament and it can mark a step forward and a step later in the response that the Government of Catalonia must give to the problems of the Catalan youth. But in the same way, it can also be a weakness. Therefore, we have before us two very different scenes and we will have to choose which way we want to take. To our group we are very clear: we do not want to repeat the same mistakes that, in our opinion, were made after the realization of the Single Language Plenary in the matter of youth in 2013. In that plenary, at the time he spoke of many proposals, they set very important objectives, they came out approved by large majority, and then left the development of the same proposals in a calaix. Neither the governments of Convergence and Union, nor of Juntes per el Si, nor of Juntes per Catalunya nor of Esquerra Republicana, regardless of who has the responsibility to the political direction, have done anything to reverse this situation of abandoning the compliments of the agreements that were marked in that Plea of the year 2013. And that can't happen again. This monographic plenary, which we were in favour, in any case, of having done so before, we think that it should serve to place youth policies at the centre of the political agenda and to put on the table feasible proposals to the real problems suffered by the young man in our home. As the document that the national council shared with us when we were working on some of these agreements..., the national council won't be asking for the moon today, it would just be missing, or we don't think most of it should be asking for the moon. But the problem is that the problem isn't this; the problem is when you get a little bit of land and they end up giving you a grit. And it's a lot of times that we find ourselves in this Parliament. Real proposals to solve real problems of all young Catalans, that's what we ask. We are at a critical moment with the situation of young people in Catalonia. The situation is worrying. No one can escape the cruel reality that we have in our country. The youth rate is 19.1_per_cent, just said by the lady counselor, and if it's true that it's a sifter that has fallen in the past year, which we celebrate, it hasn't done the sifter of young people that is found in the long-lived sifter, which is an aspect to be improved significantly. Who hasn't worked for a long time is still having a hard time getting into the labour market. Nor does it diminish the number of young people who cannot work or study. One year ago it was in 6.3_per_cent; this xifra in the first quarter is practically identical. The emancipation rate, as we have said – and we have denounced it many times since this Parliament – has reached a few minimum historical levels in the past few years; it has been located a little over fifteen per cent and was the lowest figure of the last hundred years in Catalonia. We want to work on aspects in the field of the detection of disorders and problems of mental health, that most are derived from the consequences of the pandemic of covid-19 and that have increased exponentially; the ability to enjoy free time, to experience new experiences or to grow personally has been very limited on the part of young people. A generalised situation, I say again, critical, where we can also forget what has been the state of the labour market until recently because of the Labour Reform of the People's Party approved in 2012. And it's that this job reform, one of the first consequences that it caused is that young people have flawed precarious jobs, low wages, timelessness, instability and difficulties to promote work. Faced with this critical situation that young people have experienced in the last two years, we propose to face the realization of this Ple in the most constructive way we know. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units we will present different proposals for resolution in the field of detection and prevention of young mental health, occupation, emancipation, housing, education and training. They are proposals that, in fact, many of them, and we have already asked them on different occasions and in different spaces in this Parliament, but we would like to know that, although it was because it is insistent, it can be a reality for all Catalan society. We want to address emancipation policies as an irreplaceable priority until we achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. Catalonia needs a consolidated public housing park and present throughout the Catalan territory, with a reserve of thirty_per_cent for young people. This is a primary objective. We already know that we are starting from enormous difficulties, because the first problem we find ourselves with above all is that, for practical purposes, we do not have a public housing park in Catalonia exist for almost none, for young people or for people who are not young. And what's worse: we don't have a big public housing park and we don't know when we'll have it or when we start building floors or when the calendar will be. So come on, let's start by taking a little compromise with this debate. We want to help complement the young people that the Government of Spain has announced, and we want to facilitate administratively and economically emancipation, and we also want to take into account all the territories of Catalonia, rural areas and the problem of depopulation suffered by some regions. We want to get that tape so important, it's: decent jobs for young people who are part of the most qualified generation. This means that no work practice can ever be left unremunerated. We want the Youth Guarantee program to work at cent_per_cent, to increase to thirty-five years and not to return money to Europe because it did not run all the expenses, as it did later. In the same way, we also propose to end all discrimination that can be given in any selection process, whether by sex or by age. We want to take care of mental salvation. We haven't talked much, and surely we'll talk a lot, and we've also had the opportunity to do so in the monoGRAPHic plenary of mental health of disembarkation. The national council has placed it as a priority theme. We need to adapt the health services currently available to young people and to know the new tools that exist. We ask the government for more prevention and detection of disorders and addictions, taking into account, moreover, that the impact of some of them has been much more acute in the collection of young people than in other collections. We are concerned about issues such as mobility, sustainability, energy transition, the connection of the different territories of Catalonia. Girona, Tarragona and Lleida do not have the same conditions as the province of Barcelona. We must work to correct this territorial imbalance. We will also ask for more in the field of education and academic training. We think that not all the details applied by the government's successors in a camp as high as the formation of our country's new talent have yet been reversed. Students' ratios per group must be lowered to all courses; ministry-wide rejections must be supplemented to students of formal grades, and fees must be eliminated for admission to vocational training. And what we're asking is to eliminate taxes; don't lower them, don't, we're asking to eliminate them, that they don't exist as long ago as they didn't exist in the Catalan public system. In this sense, let us return another time to talk in this Parliament about a reality in Catalonia, which is the existence of abusive taxes to study in Catalonia. And so much so that this topic in the same way as the proposal for university fees has ended. This dilluns..., and now it's not present, but the university advisor announced the downgrading of university lecturers to the proposal that we defended from the PSC, which is the same one that we were told from the Ministry of Universities and the General Conference on University Policy. He congratulates the government on getting to the price we asked for. They did it when we were told that it would not come to this price for the negotiation of the University ILP, and when just two weeks ago they voted against a message from the PSC that the demand was precisely to fix this price that they have announced now that they will fix. It is not easy to hear their change of mind, but, in any case, welcome are the proposals we make from the PSC in this Parliament, even when these arrive late. There's a lot of work to do here. In short, in every sense, if we talk about youth policies, we have a lot of work going on in Catalonia. It is worth remembering, once again, Article 142 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which holds exclusive competence in matters of youth to the Generalitat of Catalonia and, consequently, we have, therefore, a wide range of public policies that can be addressed to young people. And what we have to do is work on this path that can generate as much consent as possible. To our parliamentary group we have the feeling that there is a large social majority every time bigger than what we ask is that we recover all the time lost later. It is not a numerical coincidence that it was nine years ago, in 2013, we celebrated the last single plenary as a young person, in which we criticise that the presentation of the proposals that were agreed upon did not come to an end, and sometimes in the last two years in Catalonia, in general terms, the Government has not been an example of transformative policies or benefits for young people. As it can be difficult, we understand, to recognize that things have not done well in the past – we think so, but perhaps they are difficult – we do it backwards: we recognize and commit ourselves that in the next few years we can't make any more mistakes. We have passed from the epoch of illusions to the epoch of concreteness, from impossible demands to feasible things, to which it truly has an impact on the day-to-day lives of young people. I insist on the idea I gave to the principle: we want real proposals to solve the real problems of Catalan youth. We take, therefore, the perspective that is needed to hear something as basic as it is that we are not alone in the world, that around us things continue to happen every day that affects us. What happens to Ukraine affects us and concerns us. The one who passes to La Palma affects us. Inflation also affects us. It affects us all. Only with this distance and sincerity can we understand that the lost years we have unfortunately suffered in Catalonia can never be repeated again. And, too, we won't hear much better than the young man's demands. Because the young woman is not asking us to storm the heavens, nor is she asking us for much. They ask us for better constants in the right direction to make their present a little more comfortable and, above all, to hold them closer to seeing their future, as soon as possible as the longer one, with a little more optimism. Let's work this way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.156.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of the House has the word Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.157.0	Well, thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you, President. Deputies, public and all the young people who can also see us right now live... From the Parliamentary Group of VOX, we are happy to be able to talk about the great forgotten in the politics of this chamber. And it is time to put young people in the centre once and for all. Because talking about youth is talking about the future, but talking about youth is also talking about the present. And for too long the politicians of this chamber have been intoxicated by their separatist delusions, which have weakened the future of the next generations. Millions and millions of euros have been fulminated in illegal pseudostructures of state and in several chiringuitos. At the cost of what? For looting families and workers, and also at the cost of further indebtedness of the public coffers. And every time you owe to continue to cost your great political industry, you are putting one more stone in our young people's backpack, a backpack that you will have to carry behind your back for the rest of your life because of your irresponsibility. And a few days ago President Aragonès announced that he wanted to owe the Catalans even more. And it is that, nowadays, just for being born in Catalonia, every new Catalan already owes ten_ thousand_euros. That means that a newborn, a baby born right now in Catalonia, is already born with a debt of ten_000_euros under the arm. Don't you realize that to cost you your dearest climate, separatist, feminist and gender ideological delusions are ruining Catalans? Do you not realize that you are mortgageing the future of our young Catalans? Look, you can't pretend to help young people pull forward and at the same time spend all your money on political and ideological spending, as you do. If not, let's do an X-ray of the current panorama. And it is that the situation of young people in Catalonia reflects a very worrying diagnosis in every sense: in terms of employment, education, housing, emancipation and family training. In economic matters, for example, young people between the ages of sixteen and twenty-nine have been particularly hit by the double crisis and instability of the local, national and global economy. And, unfortunately, young people are the generation, therefore, of economic crises, they are the generation of uncertainties and lack of expectations. And it is that the social elevator has broken it you, the lords of the government. And, in this sense, right now, unfortunately, we are in a ship that is in the middle of a shipwreck. And on this ship we have at the helm the worst possible captains. The implications of youth precarious work transcend the purely labour sphere and also have an impact on the youth's vital project, on their ability to form a family when they wish, and on the prospects for emancipation and personal development. And it is that the data are alarming: the system of indicators on youth points to statistics that are not at all favorable for the work and commercial photography of young people in Catalonia. With data from the year 2021 and encompassing the age range between sixteen and twenty-nine years, we find an average annual unemployment rate of 22,3_per_cent, with a rate of temporality of forty_and_nine_per_cent and a self-employment rate of 5,8_per_cent. In addition, the youth labour market has focused mainly on the third sector, which is a symptom, as many of you will know, of the weakness of our industrial fabric, which is usually associated with more stable and durable jobs than those in the service sector. And it is that the situation of young people can be very diverse. In some cases there are young people... who look for seasonal jobs in the third sector. And it is that, in a region where tourism is a significant part of our GDP, many young people opt for seasonal jobs to match their curriculum. But what we cannot allow in any way is that, if a Catalan wants to gain access to a stable job, with a projection of the future and to enable him to develop his personal, work and family life project, he cannot do so for lack of opportunities. And, in this sense, opportunities must be given for young people to be able to choose their direction and, therefore, to choose their future. And, in this sense, you Members must understand once and for all that it is not you who give work to Catalans; it is the companies. And, in this sense, we therefore ask you to stop putting sticks on the wheels and allow those small and medium-sized enterprises to grow, to allow the self-employed to prosper, and to support, once and for all, youth entrepreneurship. Be brave, please. Because you have created a situation of legal uncertainty that has never been seen. They have created an inexhaustible fiscal and bureaucratic climate, which has led many young people to think, with great success, that engaging with you in government is a genuine suicide. And only young people with family resources are able to venture in, and those workers without more, humble, with you in government will never be able to do that. If young people do not have a decent job, they will never be able to prosper, they will never be able to develop their vital and family project. And we see this with the very low rate of emancipation. The rate of home emancipation is 17_per_cent, and more than 10_per_cent of young Catalans need help from family members in order to be able to cope with the payments of their home, and this makes it very difficult to form a family and to emancipate themselves. In addition, we must add to this the dire situation of access to housing by our young people, which worsens the possibilities of emancipation and of forming a family. And it is that the problems of supply in the markets of rent and purchase, produced to a large extent by an atrocious public intervention, hinder the purchase of a house or stay for rent by the Catalan youth. Catalan youth will never be able to access decent work, housing or form their own families without a strong and knowledge-based education system. And it is that the Generalitat does not see the education system as the key to the social lift, because they do not care about the future of young people; they only care about their future. Because they have even used schools as a centre of indoctrination where many children have been pointed out for being children of police officers, for being children of military personnel and for being children of civilian guards. Catalan children have been spied on in recreation to force them to speak Catalan. And that's the only thing that has mattered to you since the Government of the Generalitat. That's why they've also allocated millions of euros to the Language Platform, instead of allocating those resources and money to build decent, non-barrack schools. [[Some applause.]] Then President Aragonès, who is now not present, but President Aragonès said in his speech that he bets on the FP. That's a lie. This does not marry reality, because, if not, they would have secured annual places of vocational training and we would have avoided living the situation that had to be lived last year in Catalonia, with thousands of young people without places of technical training, for the mismanagement of the Government of the Generalitat, because they have forgotten to promote the culture of the trade, forgetting also the financing of the FP and discarding the business work in the design of the curriculum subjects. Because they are neither concerned nor concerned about the future of young people, nor about the freedom of families to choose the kind of education they want for their children. And they have pursued all that they have been able to and more to differentiated education and Christian education. However, it has not mattered to them, they have not had any kind of remedy, in introducing Islam in several schools in our region, Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] And even if it weighs you, we will do everything we can to make a future for our young people. And I do not want to end without first addressing a few words to the young people, many young people who will be watching us, which I know. And in this regard, from our parliamentary group we want to give them our full support. Because, young people from Catalonia, in VOX you have the definitive support for your projects and your illusions, but you will never find in us a party that promises you an easy way, because we will not lie to you and neither will we make false promises that can then frustrate your illusions. Because that is already the responsibility of the Government of the Generalitat, and only we will defend you, because only we defend the future. That's right, since VOX we want to ask you one thing: and it is that you strengthen your moral convictions, your moral convictions of responsibility, of hard work, of sacrifice, of honesty, of effort, because they are those that tomorrow will allow you to succeed in your projects, and above all they will make you free. Because they want you subjected to their submissive ideology of paguitas and alms. And don't allow it, young people – don't allow it. Study, strive and work, and above all remember that you have the right to work, that you have the right to a decent home, and, above all, that you have the right to live and not to survive from alms and parrots. VOX is with you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.158.0	Next, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.159.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, well, before we started talking about the radiography that we do about the situation of the young woman, about the future that awaits the young man of the country, because what we see, continuing a little with the analysis that we started in the previous intervention, is that progressively the tools and the rights that we have, like the working class, have been under the dynamics of espola and possess that they are every major time, and where economic growth has been legitimized and this supposed industrial and green conversion, which always benefits the same, in front of the conditions of those that from before the crisis already share the dynamics of precariousness and of entry and exit from the labor market, each of which, in other words, lies outside the realms of the... Therefore, we need to start talking about exploitation and temporality, because young generations are the biographic relation of access to the world of work from time to time: training contracts, unremunerated practices and the supposed priority of job creation to the detriment of workers' rights. Young people are classed as stunts, as if they were at home doing nothing, waiting, and blaming them, when the only ones interested in keeping youths in the dark, willing to sell their labor force under misery, are the same companies and the big capitals. For us this has a name, which is job insecurity and class struggle. And this is not the result of one or another legislation, but of a frontal attack on the living conditions worthy of the popular classes, through the restriction of access to public services, such as sanitation, education and housing, and the loss of rights, labor rights or, for example, also including retirement, which, like forms of social protection, are dismantled, while the accumulation of capital and its wealth continues to grow exponentially. With regard to the concepts of emancipation and right of access to housing, we see that the priests of the loguer have been unstoppable for years, while young people who have access to the labour market are still in a permanent cycle of temporality, contractless work and permanent degradation of their working conditions, and young people who do not even have access to the labour market can not access them because they are denied access to basic living conditions worthy of a foreign law that condemns them to be second-class citizens in the best of cases, because they inherit the migration processes that their families have begun. Therefore, youth emancipation is a step that each time moves more in the order that we have vital perspectives, if they can, and when they do, see how they have to devote more than half of the self to emancipating. We need to make it clear that, within capitalism, entrepreneurs and investors' credit and banks have a permanent need to revalue the capital they have, or, to say the least, their fortune. And what do we understand what's going on? So that we live under the state umbrella of one of the smallest social spending investments, only compensated or confronted for the strong informal support networks that exist, which have allowed us to put a minimum of the inequalities we find today. Without this social dynamic, today we would find ourselves in a much worse situation in the Catalan countries, because young people, either willingly or in need, have become very clear..., above all it was seen, we saw very clearly that they were getting out of the pandemic, through these tracts of life support. The young people in these very highly participatory networks made it clear that, from the first day, what they could not stay at home, and they would have to give answers to the problems that in no case could be understood without the concept of collectivity. Mutual support networks, food distributions, inter-vein aids, are parallel stories of those who have never had an altar to explain themselves. Today, the cost of fuel, the administration, the price of basic food..., which tells us, moreover, that you only have to see with the situation of Ukraine and that you do not have to see anything about it with which suddenly there are some, that you can already pass a pandemic or five pandemics, which seems to be that they do not affect the crisis. There must be someone who thinks that some steps have been taken forward, that twenty cents of the price of the litre of gasoline have been withdrawn, that some taxes have been lowered on the price of the light, that a subsidy has been given that affects a small percentage of young people to pay the logger. And there's smoke coming, before incapacity and unwillingness to touch what really matters. But the truth is that, as the climate emergence that sees us above, before the rise of the European continent, and the demographic changes that are giving Europe with populations that are more and more enveloped, they are the young people who want, above, to discipline and to adapt the dynamics of capital. And this requires policies that really face this repressive task on the part of the future, that is materiality in lower wages, worse working conditions, uncertainty, the maintenance of work, with less social protections, and that cause young people to find themselves now completely winged and drifting, frustrated and unanticipated in the future. Therefore, we also need to talk about the industrial model and the tourist model, because we are ahead of a drift from the country's last governments that are not complex for an economic model of tourism massification and speculation. And this model generates precarious, poorly paid and temporary jobs, with limited time offers and much focused on tourism, with seasonal and poorly paid jobs in hotels, restaurants and large oci complexes, such as ski slopes, amusement parks, which, by the way, take advantage of excessive access that is not accessible for most of the city's roads where they are located, if not to lend it, to shape the services that give these complexes and these negotiations to the rest of the population that can enjoy this type of oci. This model contributes to the cost of living, especially in first-residence habitats, and to the destruction of the territory. This model makes it difficult to access housing, because the second residences and the tourist flats mark the price of the loggers and make it difficult for our young people to access permanent housing to the regions affected by the tourist monocultures, which make these regions totally dependent on a fluctuating and unstable sector. The consequences of this economic model based on precariousness and extreme temporality cause rural exodus, population enveloping, territories relegated to being the city's leureus, massive consumption of resources, such as water and energy, and waste production, and, ultimately, a fragmented economy and no real opportunities, which focuses investments on the needs of tourists and not on the ways they see them. The stakes for the macro-projects, such as the Hard Rock, the airport, the Olympic Games, the Circuit de Catalunya, the American Cup, are nothing more than the reflection of a government that bets to put forward the economic interests of its present and not build it for a possible future in a territory that lives with some decent work for the young man of the country. And it is very obvious the contradictions of the imposed industrial and tourist model and the urgent need to bet on a very long model of monoculture and macro projects. Because the social and economic effects of the pandemic still hit the popular classes, sharpening the precarious situation of life. A situation of precariousness that is even more accentuated by growing with the genera, with the race, with the administrative situation and with the age. Because for the young man, who is the generation of the two crises, the situation makes them subject to a present of misery, to the uncertainty that any expectation of a better future and precariousness in all the spheres of life do not have solutions in the short term. Some living conditions that make it almost impossible to emancipate youth and access to housing through the market. Moreover, the current model of population concentration in cities, which has also generated centres of consumption and power, has been socially and environmentally unsustainable. Therefore, we also demand rural communities as areas of cooperation towards the individualistic environments generated for life in cities. We demand this model of life as the future to absolve inclusive societies where life is the epicentre of all policies, while autonomous institutions and the Spanish government, all along from putting changes in the model, have closed files with tourism sectors, which we have seen for years, and there is no transformation that is changing this reality. Therefore, we need to capture the industrial and tourism model, as we have said, and the first urgent measures that we will take to the resolution proposals that we are putting forward for expropriations and conversion plans of the tourism industry, to deploy renewable energies, to treat the energy transition, to change the consumption habits of the institutions, to adapt them to the restriction..., to the reduction – forgiveness – of emissions, and to improve agriculture and ramederia in order to adapt them to the imminent climate emergency. Let's keep talking about youth policies and, obviously, we also need to talk about repression, because today many young people are exposed to repression, the result of their participation in political mobilizations and organizations, and others simply because of their non-white, foreign and criminal identity. This is why it is especially important to review the role of the Government of Catalonia around the political repression of social activists and racialized people such as non-whites, including from schools and institutes, as it represents keeping the Proderai program in force, which does nothing other than criminalize the young Arab ascendant. We have this repression permanently at our schools and institutes, and it doesn't just happen to manifest itself, to go out on the street, to raise our eyes, it's simply a repression of their identities, to criminalize and to hear that their cultural ancestry involves a danger to Catalan society. This is a model of repression that we have set up in the schools and that needs to be completed urgently. The exercise of the right to protest is a value in a society in emancipation process, and that public security officials are compromised in this position. Public space must be seen as a much more alive, active and politicized space, and to the service of the people and the citizenry, and I do not perceive it as a hostile and alien space, which is like today for young people, especially those who have non-white and feminine identities. What is needed, once more, is to defend these young people from repression, because it is they who also defend the català at the educational centers, those who do outside the extreme right of university campuses and those who stop the commercialization of education. Therefore, bearing in mind that the young person suffers a large part of these accusations to participate in mobilizations, the imposition of penances of access supposes, moreover, an acquiescence against the rights of these demonstrators, that it is to withdraw these penances and these accusations from the Generality, that the only thing that it does is to suppress the organization and political participation, which, as we have commented and commented on in the previous interventions, is an element that concerns all political forces, this political participation, and therefore the Generality should stop pursuing the little political involvement that we have, let us say, manifestly active. Obviously, speaking of youth policies – and I'm finished – and of the future, we can't stop talking about language. The respective languages, the Catalan to the principality and the occidentity to the Aran, are also the main tools of social cohesion and a common theme of which the great linguistic diversity presented by Catalan society is to be managed. It must be borne in mind that the minority and backwardness of the Catalan language has not stopped or will cease, and that the attacks against the language of the Catalan countries are growing, and focus, above all, on the education system, especially at universities, but we are seeing with the last sensations that this has also extended to primary schools, the judicial and public service systems, the cultural intercommunication system, and all communication media in Catalonia. Therefore, our proposals for resolution, which we will deliver at the end of today, are in these lines: repression, industrial model, emancipation and language. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And they have in common – and I finish, President – the struggle against this drift to which this government carries us and which, already, direct the former, with their policies that rob the future of the young man. Because let's remember: a precaritating present is a future dynamite. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.160.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.161.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counselors... well, there are only two councillors left. Deputies, deputies... representatives of the council who accompany us today, also welcome. I don't lie to you if I tell you that I've given many times how to focus this intervention on the monogramme of the plenary on youth emancipation that we are dealing with today. And that also has to do with my condition, that everyone here... a lot of people are talking about the young man, and sometimes it's about getting to know each other. And thinking about how to do it, I am thirty years old today, and I count on the privilege of having a seat as a Member from a term of office... that's much more than I consider myself or feel young; that's not how I feel, but that I can transmit, from my seat, the denunciation of the neguites, the desires, the needs and the demands of the young people, who, like other collections, find themselves on the margins of speeches and, above all, of the policies that are fanciful here. I had, therefore, to know some things to talk about, to connect with that young girl, that seven-year-old girl who emigrated alone from Barranquilla, Colombia, without family references, to start a new life project in Catalonia. And at that time, however, the difficulties I went through were more determined by my condition as a migrated person than by my young condition, right? Thanks to the foreign law, social and structural racism at the time of getting work, getting work, getting work, getting a psychological support that helps me to hear the place I was in in this society. So, thinking, therefore, of how to focus on it, I also thought of young people who have come into much more difficult situations, of still less privileges, and who are criminalized, or young people who have been born here to alienate themselves, or young people who directly inherit conditions of extreme poverty, or who have a sexual condition or an expression of non-regulatory gender, or who live in rural areas, and therefore see conditions their opportunities to develop a decent life project. Thus, in the framework of this intervention, we shall speak of young people in plurality, of different young people, in terms of class, in terms of ethnic, religious, orientation of desire, among others. We'll talk about young people not just in generational terms, won't we? , in terms of a group born between such or such a year or arriving until such time, but in terms of the political agenda, of requests that pass not only to what the young people of Catalonia need, but also to hear what they ask and what they demand of the young people of the world, from different contexts, also lock in the global south, because we have to hear that here the way to follow is that no one can let anyone go: here, or all of us go out, or we all go all the way, or nobody goes forward. And these kinds of reflections aren't mine, but they're already making the youth movement. They are made by young people organized and politicized, who already see life and oppression through this cross-sectionality. And that's why we have a lot to learn, in this room. And, going further into the subject we are dealing with today, we begin, of course, to thank the National Youth Council and other political organizations that are here today for having this specific debate on youth emancipation, even though it came up later than the Council had asked. It has been possible thanks to the ingenious and tireless work of associationism and other forms of political organization of the young Catalan, who has struggled and struggled still to give answer to this problem. And here we have representatives of the council, so welcome and welcome, but there are a lot of people, a lot of young people who aren't listening to us today. Still having a part of the young man here and some of the connected ones following us from other pants, what we are told about recent studies is that the young man's ninety percent does not feel escorted, does not feel represented, and, therefore, the one we are talking about here, somehow, will not arrive. And that has to do with a lot of things. That neither the party system nor the institutions have been able to do the job. We haven't been able to do what's said so much but it's practice a little: put the young people in the center. Not so much because we haven't listened, because sometimes we have listened, all that we wear nine years without listening to the young people here; but sometimes, despite being listened to, real and concrete policies don't come and don't help improve youth emancipation taxes. And when we speak also at the level of juvenile emancipation, we do not refer only to the fact of leaving home; we refer to a social emancipation in a broad sense, to a political emancipation of a system that has legislated and ruled against the interests of young people in housing, in terms of quality occupation, in terms of mental health and also in terms of climate change. I, listing these aspects, for example, in the first place, housing, when it has been allowed that housing, instead of being a right that is guaranteed, is a good with which it is speculated from all administrations– they have allowed it, in this sense– and with the current resources that we have in the Generalitat of Catalonia can only attend emergencies and can not help to strengthen a public housing park in a brave way. The presupposition has been increased virtually through European foundations, but these only serve to renew buildings. Therefore, it is not possible to use what we want well. In terms of occupation, secondly, when this government, more than opposed to labour reform, has not made a policy determined to combat youth precariousness, nor has it made a specific set of inspections for ill practices around the world of university or training practices. The territorial deployment of vocational training, for example, and its gratuity, for what do we have? This moment's answer we don't have. In the third place, at the level of mental salvation, when, despite having celebrated in this Chamber a specific plethora in mental salvation and having constituted a specific study commission for this subject, we do not have a plan at the moment. In fact, we, from our parliamentary group, made an inquiry to the Government last November on the 6.g point of the motion that was approved said: "To present, within three months, a plan to strengthen the attention of mental and youth health in order to guarantee the public and free care of adolescents and young people, especially to attend to the disruptions of food conduct and the prevention of suicide, organizing a campaign of awareness, awareness and promotion of mental health and the eradication of social stigmas. This plan of time we don't have. There is much talk of mental salvation, but concrete policy still does not have it, and we take advantage to ask it again. And, fourthly, in terms of climate change, when this government is betting for some Olympic games, for an expansion of the airport, for Hard Rocks or projects that, very far from questioning or transforming the economic model dependent on tourism and its climate effects in the territory and at work level, what it does is to deepen its effects. Because for those of us who believe – and, in this, if we have many parliamentary groups that are not going to do so – in the notion of social justice, it must be internalized, yes or yes, it must be linked to policies in struggle against the climate crisis and the environmental cause, because the climate crisis that it does is to deepen the existing inequalities of those who suffer the effects of the crisis and those who generate them. They are the same economic sectors against the same popular sectors, so they are the young people. And all this, this lack of political action on the part of the government, makes the young people of our country find themselves, today, in a dramatic and hopeless situation, despite being one of the most trained and prepared generations of all time. And so it's visible as the emancipation rate, which is around the divide_per_cent. And this only means that more than eighty percent of young people, which is the vast majority, can't exercise a right as basic as accessing a habitat or starting their own life project. And the few young people who can do it suffer, in addition, a great uncertainty and a lack of protection. And that's so because, somehow, if you access it in completely precarious conditions. The example of this is given by the same National Youth Council, it is said that fifty-six per cent of young emancipates declare that they have suffered abuse in relation to the world. That a fundamental right such as this has direct consequences on the development and emotional well-being of young people is impossible. And by the year 2017 the Catalan observer also spoke to us about the need to relate and demonstrate the relationship between precariousness and mental health. And, in this sense, he emphasized that almost half of the young people claim to be anxious or anxious to not be able to arrive at the end of the month, or that the thirteen_per_cent do not have a balanced basic diet as a consequence of their economic situation. And here, I repeat, we continue without having a plan. It's an absolute drama that's allowed us to get here in a democracy, that's normalized precariousness as a way of life, isn't it? , which forms part of the life by work and divine grace of the people of this country. And that's why we mean it's not normal, we can't normalize this situation. It's not normal for everyone who knows from young people of this generation to be precarious. It's not normal that they can't develop a decent life project. It's not normal that suicide continues to be the leading cause of death in young people. And from Common We can always defend that the first step to solve a problem is, obviously, to recognize that we have a problem. And we need to actively listen to young people and other types of organizations, prioritize requests and needs. We also have the Youth Policy Commission, which we have in this house, and which we believe should eventually be legislative. To think that celebrating this plenary and talking two days of youth is enough to solve the problems that young people are experiencing is how to believe that pushing the electric car market is enough to solve the climate emergency. It's cheating and it's not enough, definitely. Julia Rosanna, president of the council, spoke to us a moment ago about the disaffection and wide gap between young people and politics. Knowing the causes of youth precariousness is perhaps knowing, at the same time, political disaffection. And here the Generalitat has been more than two years behind in the execution and approval of the national plan of the youth of Catalonia. There is currently no specific measure for young people in the field of housing or mental health, rather than specifying a percentage. In summary, and sadly, to hear this situation, not doing anything in situations of violations of rights and loss of power acquired from the young working people is also a way of doing politics. But, in the midst of all this, we believe that we are still in time; we are in time to dignify the institutions to be useful agents of our time. Thanks to labour reform, for example, there has been an increase in the set_per_cent of youth employment in Catalonia since the first quarter of 2022, and the emancipation rate, while still dramatic, grew for the first time in years after being at least historical. Obviously, we have a way to go, we have a lot of way to go, but we have an open way. We have at our hands the opportunity to establish real emancipators of housing and mental health policies that place the needs and demands of young people in the centre, measures that guarantee us a true horizon of social and political emancipation. And from Comú We can continue to struggle to transform politics and to turn it definitively into an act of love for people and for life, making a system that guarantees young lives worthy lives, that they are worth being fully viscous, because there is not enough to say that youth is the future, when they don't have a place right now, in the present, and young people are the present. That has been said a lot, but that means you have to take a place, that means we have to give up space. And the present they pose is a different present; a present they want to look forward to, even though some of them are annoyed, because if today's young people are to be made because of the decisions taken from adult centerism..., today will be a very unfair panorama. And it's very easy to tell young people that you are the future, if, in total, today we can't do absolutely nothing to influence these decisions, which will clearly affect us and them. Today we have the Parliament exceptionally full of young people, and we will listen to them. And tomorrow, probably, after we approve the resolutions, maybe some of them are in a tight paper, like some of them have, but well, that's not why we're going to fail in our pocket. And after all this, they'll leave. So..., an invitation to parliamentary groups: let's take advantage of the young woman not only today, but in the present continuous. Even though some of us do not like their way of doing politics, which went much further than the speeches we give in this Chamber, which are often overly disconnected from reality, we learn from their ways of doing politics, which has to decide about their desires and, at the same time, think about desires that are collectively built. So, there's no generational justice now. We are still responsible, we are at the height of the concrete political demands of these young people, who are fed up with our immobilism. Again, thank you to the council and to the rest of the political organizations for this debate that we are dealing with today. Only with your commitment and your help will we get out. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.162.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.163.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, the truth is that I want to start this speech in this Youth Plenary by thanking all the political forces of this Parliament for having been able to agree on a debate as fundamental to the future of our society as this one, on youth, on youth, in this case in Catalonia, but also extending to Spain as a whole. From this point of view, I want to start my speech by recognizing my pride. My pride for the image I have seen today in this Chamber, for the image of a young man, in this case, David Andrés, the coordinator of our youths, of the youths of Citizens, who at a time when other young people, for example, those who are part of an entity or a youth association like Arran and others like the so-called "Syndicato de Estudiantes de los País Catalanes ", have decided to leave the room because they did not want or hear what the representative of VOX said, which... Hey, I understand that everyone will like to hear what others say more or less, but I think it is a show of civicism, a show of urbanity, a show of respect, a show of pluralism, in short, a show of liberalism, the fact of being aware that you live with their political opponents. That is what Mr Andrés, our young liberal who is here with us today, has shown, sitting down to listen to the representatives of the CUP, the representatives of the commons, the representatives of VOX, and will also stay to listen to the representatives of Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana. It's called "civilism," it's called "respect for pluralism," and it's called "having the capacity to live with your political opponents. [[Some applause.]] That is, in short, liberalism. Ortega said liberalism is the supreme generosity. It is the right that the majority grant to the minority, even if it is weak; it is the noblest cry that has sounded on the planet and it is a proclamation of the decision to live with the enemy, even more so when it is weak. That is precisely what liberalism is all about, respect for democracy, respect for minorities, respect for individual rights and respect for coexistence. That is why liberalism is the political form that has most favored coexistence among citizens, which has most favored the progress of humanity, because it is able to understand the differences that exist in a society, it is able to understand political pluralism. Isaiah Berlin spoke of contradictory truths. These contradictory truths make a liberal be able to hold a position on a particular issue that may seem more propens, more prone to right-wing theses, and, in another, to left-wing theses. That's liberalism. That is precisely the liberal doctrine, the doctrine of coexistence, the doctrine of having the capacity to speak with the whole parliamentary arc, with any fellow citizen of yours, no matter how distant their ideas are from yours. That's why I think it's important to recognize that today, to me, the truth, has made me feel very proud, David's attitude. And I recognize, and I tell you sincerely, also – I address the young people directly –..., I like... I was saying this morning, with the counselor Giró, who said Bertrand Russell that humanity has a double moral: one of them is the one who preaches and does not practice, and the other is the one who practices and does not preach. Well, it seems to me that in Catalonia there is an excess of double morality, which I question, which I argue, which I denounce. And, in this sense, I really like to be able to address myself to young people who don't think like me and tell them what I think about their attitude today and on other occasions. The truth is that today, in this Chamber, there are, for example, the young people of Arran. The young people of Arran, as you all know, are a group that, among other things, counts on their great achievements, such as smashing the seats of Citizens, People's Party, PSC and VOX. That is one of the great feats that the young people of Arran have achieved. Another of the great achievements that the young people of Arran have achieved is to point out Judge Llarena's house with yellow paint and claim it on social networks. It will seem to you a thing to be very proud of, and you must certainly consider that, moreover, it is a thing that generates good harmony and good roll, in short, in society, that facilitates and favors coexistence. It must seem that way to them. I used to say Mrs Basha Change, to whom I have special sympathy, and therefore that I am not angry about what I will say now..., I said that there are groups, for example, the so-called Catalan Student Union, which drive from public universities to the far right. And do you know who you mean? To an entity like S'Ha Finish! , a constitutionalist entity, an entity that defends..., and Mrs. Geis nods, because she, in fact, also considers that S'Ha Finit! is an extreme right-wing entity. Well, it's an entity that defends constitutional values. It is an entity that defends coexistence. It's an entity that absolutely respects everyone, and yet... well, I see that Arran and SEPC haven't been able to handle the jetty, and, definitely, [[the timer riu]] They're leaving. [[Some applause.]] The student association to which the lords of SEPC..., which now seems that I manage to expel them from Parliament as they expel those of S'Ha Afinet! Well, I ate it for what was served, gentlemen of the SEPC. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me? Excuse me? Excuse me? It's just that I don't... well, I think everybody's speeches need to be respected a little more, huh? You can't be... well. [[Widow's remorse.]] Did you tell me, really? Well, fi. I believe that to say, as Mrs. Changue said, that to expel S'Ha Afinet! from the Catalan universities it is to expel to the extreme right is a real nonsense, it is a real aberration. Mrs. Regant says no. Indeed, the conceptual and moral investment that has taken place in Catalonia is certainly very worrying. Members of the Republican Left applauded the fact that the members of Arran and SEPC left to not hear a parliamentary group. That seemed to them very civic, parliamentaryly highly recommended, and for coexistence in society it seemed to them a very promising thing. I really don't think that's how we're doing, excuse me for telling you. I say this with all due respect to those of the young people who have finally left the Chamber for not hearing the truth. But well, I tell you honestly that I think it is a real shame, sectarianism and the lack of tolerance that some have wanted to impose in Catalonia. There were deputies from Squerra Republicana who proudly photographed the empty stage..., well, the empty guest gallery, because it must seem very good to them, that totalitarian attitude. They must think: "We are securing the future with more totalitarianism for our official Catalonia. They must rub their hands of tranquility seeing that they will continue to have new hordes, for perhaps, of people like Quim Torra, who speak of the Spanish-speaking as « wild beasts with human form. You must think that's insured. So, personally, I'm extremely concerned. Moreover, after seeing this show I have seen this morning, I must say that, speaking precisely with our young people, with David Andrés and with the rest of the young people of Citizens, in order to prepare this plenary, we, from our liberal position, have always defended precisely that what must be tackled fundamentally are problems such as the very high level of youth unemployment that we have throughout Spain and specifically in Catalonia, situated in the environment of twice the European average. It is a scourge that in Catalonia should be a priority of any responsible government, of any serious government. Unfortunately, it has never been. Unfortunately, we have had governments that, rather than worrying about youth unemployment, have been concerned about other velocities of identity. And, in this regard, we believe that public funds should be allocated, precisely because they belong to all citizens, to things such as facilitating access to decent housing for young people, facilitating access to affordable rent for young people, facilitating banking institutions to facilitate access to housing for our young people. And, from this point of view, we believe that, unfortunately, this is not happening in our community. From the point of view of other aspects that have been addressed in this plenary, such as, for example, that of the mental health of young people, we, from Citizens, promote the last legislature a full monograph on mental health. And precisely the mental health of young people, as a result of the pandemic, was a priority for us at all times. Our colleague Blanca Navarro, I believe, played an absolutely exemplary, commendable role in the fight against the scourge of mental illness, depression, the number of mental problems – psychological, psychiatric – that have come from the pandemic. And, from this point of view, we will continue to fight one of the great scourges that our young people have suffered for many years. Furthermore, there are aspects, such as the issue of youth emancipation, which we believe to be absolutely fundamental, to our parliamentary group. The normal thing would be that we were able to reach a fifteen_per_cent of social housing – we are now in Catalonia located in three_per_cent, so we are far from that desideratum – and that this social housing had a specific part that was intended for young people. We find it essential that there be special rents for young people, that there be a youth emancipation plan, that there be specific mortgage offers for young people; a general reduction in the official protective housing, but very specifically in the official protective housing for young people. We believe that the Government of the Generalitat should commit itself to these special conditions for young people in social housing. We believe that it is essential that investment in education and vocational training and, in particular, dual vocational training be increased. The ideological climate that, unfortunately, has been created in Catalonia in recent years is of a contempt to the world of enterprise: that idea of decline, that idea that entrepreneurs are, by definition, bad, that attack the people. And that populist idea, unfortunately, across many of the groups in this chamber, is deeply deleterious to our society. And we believe, from Citizens, that these kinds of ideas must be banished from our public debate. This is the only way to ensure that our young people truly integrate into the labour market, thanks to their qualifications, but also thanks to conditions and an ideological climate created in Catalonia in the heat, precisely, of liberal policies and not of identity policies and interventionist policies, such as those which unfortunately have been taking place in Catalonia for many years now. In this respect, we have been working with our team and also with my colleague Joan García on a number of motions for resolutions which have to do with some of the points we have commented on so far, a motion for a resolution on young people's access to housing. And, in this regard, although it will be my colleague Joan García who will go further in this regard, I would like to comment very briefly on some of the elements that we have included in these motions for resolutions. On the one hand, we ask Parliament to decide on the activation and increase of public housing construction in Catalonia so that the real offer is met and responds to the needs of young people who cannot emancipate themselves for economic reasons, and to address the under-equipment of the existing public housing park in Catalonia, which is, I insist, one of the problems that we have been carrying out for many years in our community. Furthermore, we have a motion for a resolution on young people's access to the world of work. In this sense, we have already commented that Catalonia has an absolutely exorbitant youth unemployment rate, with a 27.5_per_cent youth unemployment rate, which is a percentage, I insist, above the European average. And we believe that insufficient resources are being allocated from the Government of the Generalitat to employment policies, to youth employment policies, which should be a priority for successive Governments of the Generalitat and for all public administrations. We have also prepared a proposal on youth associationism. We believe that it is essential that there is a constant refreshment, a constant mobility in the leadership of youth associations. We also want to avoid endogamy in such associations. We believe that it is essential that these associations also reflect the pluralism of Catalan society. Unfortunately – I insist on what I said at the beginning – we believe that Catalan society suffers from a serious problem, which worries us, from lack of respect for political pluralism, from lack of respect for diversity. And we believe that, from youth associations, it would be very important for movements to begin to occur in a sense that there is greater openness to divergent ideas, to different ideas, because precisely from the divergence, from the difference, from that dissonance, often, between the opinions of each other, the best ideas of society arise, the best ideas of community, the best ideas that can lead us to really improve our offer of public policy on youth. From this point of view, we believe – and I want to return to the beginning of my speech – that, from a liberal approach to public policies, is the way Catalan society will really move forward. We must avoid the hyperstatalization of our public life, the hyperpartisanization of our public life. I think it is essential – and I say it again, I have said it on some other occasion – to regain sobriety in politics, it is essential to regain the ability to have a respectful speech with the other. And I believe that speed or movement is shown to be moving. I sincerely believe that this is something that some of us will never be able to question. And it seems to me that it is essential that there is that respect between political formations so that we can increasingly have a more respectful, pluralistic society and, probably, with better prospects for promising economic and social development in the coming years. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.164.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.165.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I would like to greet the representatives of the young people who are still in the Chamber. I'm afraid I won't be able to recover those who have left. And, above all, the punishment that gives me is that that intolerance has learned it from the successive governments of the Generalitat. It's a shame, the values that are teaching our youth, but well... Today we have this monographic plenary session. In July 2013, we also discussed these issues. President Aragonès said in his speech that "we have been talking about these questions in Catalonia for the past 20 years, and we have been talking about these problems. So look, Mr. Aragones, I'm telling you, since 2003, it's been 20 years since the Republican Left has already entered the Government of the Generality. Maybe they'll make it look at each other. But, yes, it's true what I was saying, and it's true that these problems are being dragged away. Nine years ago we spoke in this plenary of many issues that we are repeating here today, and I would dare to say that even in some respects we have gone to worse. It is not in vain that in the last decade things have happened that we never imagined. For example, the independence leaders tied the blanket to their heads and plunged us into a deep crisis marked by serious legal insecurity and political instability. We have also experienced a global pandemic, and now we are in the midst of a war that kills innocent people without mercy. True, we have not had it easy in the last decade, and especially young people have not had it easy. Having a separatist government dedicated, precisely, only to that implies having a government that does not care about day to day. On the rupturist agenda, improving university quality or, for example, promoting the emancipation of young people has not been and is not now a priority either. Just a few weeks ago, in the previous plenary session, we discussed here an ILP on university fees, which is a historical claim of Catalan youth, and was not by whim, but, of course, by absolute necessity. Under separatist governments rates reached the price record for all of Spain. Because separatism does not give opportunities: either it loses them or directly takes them away from you. Good students, for example, were left without access to university simply because they could not cope with the tuition fee. Fortunately, after several strikes, claims, motions from this Parliament, the Government agreed to lower the fees. But it is not enough, we must also increase funds for university scholarships. These scholarships are vital for ensuring equal opportunities regardless of the income level of each family, and are also vital for rewarding talent and effort. We want a university of quality, and for this we must enhance excellence in order to consolidate us at an international level, which is precisely the opposite of what you are doing, Constellera Geis, and also the rest of the Government, in that obsession they have to eradicate the Castilian. Because, yes, the subject of language is not just an identity marker, as you use it, but it affects the rights and opportunities of students, but also of Catalan universities. You did not confirm yourself by typing Spanish in the Celaá law, a demand by Esquerra Republicana, pressed by Platforma per la Llengua – by the way, a law that the People's Party has appealed to the Constitutional Court. Nor did they have enough to spy on the children in the courtyards of the schools, also at the initiative of Platforma per la Llengua, with the financial support, in addition, of the Generalitat, but also of the Diputación de Barcelona, chaired by the Socialist Party, but also that you yourself, conseller Geis, has encouraged university students to watch in which language teachers impart their subjects, according to you to control that they do not skip the teaching plan. But we are all very clear that if the teaching plan states that the subject is in Spanish and, however, the teacher changes to Catalan, there will be no problem here, because, I insist, here what it is about to impose Catalan in all areas. Let's also remember how – Mrs. Geis, who makes you many scarecrows... – the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has solemnly stated that classes have to be taught in Spanish and Catalan in a percentage of at least twenty-five_per_cent. By the way, less than fifteen days have you already to execute the sentence, because the clock is running. I, Mrs Geis, would also like to remind you how the High Court of Justice urged you to provide exams for the PAU in both languages. However, you did not comply with this obligation, forcing students who would like to examine themselves in Spanish to identify themselves. Why? Because the nationalist siege creates problems where there are none. You are obsessed with this theme: reporting to teachers, percentages of eighty_per_cent, who then contradict each other and Mr. Cambray says one thing and you say the other... How do you think this will affect the international prestige of Catalan universities or, for example, the promotion of the attraction of foreign students? Well, I'm telling you: negative, it's going to have a negative impact. Foreign students who – I remind you – are vital to the survival of many of the master's degrees offered. But that seems to you to be a little bit alike. I have told you many times: you seem to want an increasingly small Catalonia, increasingly closed and increasingly isolated from the world. That is why we are not going to give up our efforts so that they do not get away with it, and, of course, we are going to denounce in this rostrum, but also where it is necessary, each and every one of the abuses you commit. And we will celebrate victories such as that achieved by the School of All and also by the Assembly by a Bilingual School and by all those families who have denounced and resisted until the so-called "immersion" disappears. We will also celebrate and support every small achievement of youth entities like S'Ha Afinet! every time they regain a meter of freedom in their universities, every time they unmask those peaceful assumptions that then strike and push it not only against them, but also, sometimes, against those teachers who support them. And we are going to condemn with the most absolute of contempt every applause for those violent, for those intolerant, applause like those we have heard here a while ago, because those are not the values that we democrats advocate and, of course, those are not the values that the People's Party wants for our young people. And whosoever wills them, who has applauded the intolerants a while ago, let him look at them. Those who fill their mouths to be so democrats that they review their values a little bit, because I think they're pretty lost. Look, Catalan universities must be spaces of freedom and academic excellence. Specific funding lines should be promoted for those who can improve their research, innovation and employability indices. We must also encourage talent attraction programs, exchanges with students from other autonomous communities, Erasmus students and also from Ibero-America, as well as facilitate agreements between university and business. And, by the way, we are not content only with the fact that the university is bilingual, but that English also has to be a priority, especially in order to then have to save us, therefore, moratoriums, which they do is to highlight the low level of English that our students have. And this happens precisely when we do not start with a fully trilingual education like that which, for example, we propose from the People's Party. In short, what we want is for our young people to enter the labour market as well as possible so that they can compete on equal terms with the others. And believe me – and I sincerely say this – that your obtuse view of education is harmful to your future – it is harmful, it takes away rights and opportunities. We must also – and they have already commented on this from other groups and also in the presentation by the representative of the Council – give a decisive boost to vocational training, which is indefatigable, I would say already. We must increase their quality standards by relying on their duality, with training at the centre and in the productive field of companies. A dual FP of quality like German, which is a guarantee of a better future for young people. Sometimes there is no need to invent anything, with which we copy what is working in other countries, because, we already have, there is no need for magic formulas. What needs to be done is to implement it and do it. The labour market, which is another of the problems..., access to the labour market is true that it is going through one of its most delicate moments. The shortage of jobs particularly affects certain groups, such as the long-term unemployed, those over the age of forty-five, or young people, who are therefore probably the worst paid, with precarious jobs. And I am aware that, of course, autonomous competences in this area are limited, but it is not true that the Generalitat can do anything. You, for example, manage the SOC; you turn it into a real job search engine. Be your guide and accompany young people with programs that will help them identify their abilities and direct them to booming sectors. It can't be that we have certain sectors that have to go looking for talent outside while we have a lot of young people unemployed, at home, because they don't find work. It's obvious something's going on. There are sectors such as, for example, the technological sector, the digital sector, but also hospitality, also construction, also agriculture, which need these professionals. Training plans must therefore be made to train young people in those skills that require the greatest demand and that businesses need. And for this you are counting, for example, on the Youth Guarantee programmes, which are totally wasted. Obviously, the lack of employment brings with it another series of problems, such as the difficulty in emancipating oneself. Emancipation continues to decline among young people between the ages of sixteen and twenty-nine. A report by the Catalan Youth Observatory of November 2021 indicates that only 15,5_per_cent of young Catalans are independent. In 2007 this rate was double, they were in thirty_per_cent. What are the two major barriers for emancipation for young people in Catalonia? On the one hand, of course, the price of housing, and, on the other, as I said, this lack of access to the labour market, with contracts that are not precarious, temporary and poorly paid. Those are the problems. What solutions does the Generalitat offer to these problems? Well, absolutely none. You have housing policies that restrict supply, and, in addition, you have the highest taxes, which you do is precisely continue to destroy jobs in Catalonia. We will therefore also be presenting proposals in this area and in this area on Thursday. I want to talk too – I have less than four_minutes left –.... I want to talk about other issues that worry us very much, such as, for example, the upsurge in violence among young people, especially that which has to do with sexual and gender rights. We are seeing cases that have totally dismayed us, such as, for example, that brutal rape that took place in Igualada, but there has also been an increase, a resurgence, in attacks related to LGBTIphobia. The assaults and sexual abuse in the city of Barcelona increased in 2021 by thirteen_per_cent compared to 2019, and thirty_and six_per_cent compared to 2020, which are also offered by the City of Barcelona. I think it is clear that an analysis and detection of the sources where this violence is taking place must be carried out, basically in order to be able to address it. I told Mr Elena last plenary that denying the problem is not going to make it disappear by magic. And I know that inaction, then, is the usual seal of separatist governments, but I think this is too serious and too serious to go on doing anything. Finally, I also want to talk about the pandemic, another of the great obstacles that our young people have had to deal with, an unexpected virus that has taken the lives of thousands and thousands of people and that has left not only physical consequences – in some – but also psychological ones in each and every one of us; for the time spent alone, for the people we lost without even in many cases being able to fire us, for fear, for not being able to socialize, for also feeling guilty when we were socializing even though it was done with all the precautions of the world. I think that the young people, in this case, too many times you have been pointed out as guilty, when you were really the victims or those affected by this going and coming from improvised policies by the Government of the Generalitat: today we open the night's leisure, tomorrow we close it, the day after tomorrow we do not know what will happen. But, beyond this problem of nightlife, which has brought others with it, we are concerned about everything behind it, that is, what has happened all this time in your lives, when they were interrupted without notice. Mental health problems among young people have increased during the pandemic: anxiety, depression, eating disorders... They are not the only ones. These, moreover, have also led to others, such as, for example, social stigma, and even others with totally fatal consequences. It is also the young population that is most responsible for these changes, following the pandemic, stemming from the social crisis and the economic crisis. Attempts to commit suicide, especially among girls, among girls, have increased by 195_per_cent, according to data published at the end of 2021 by La Vanguardia – a 195_per_cent of increases in suicide attempts. It is true that we have the suicide risk code in motion. I also know, Counselor, that you have a special sensitivity on this subject, but it is not enough; with this data, it is not enough. We must therefore speak again in this Parliament of youth suicide, not wait to call these full monographs, not wait for study committees that we have under way on mental health. We must continue to talk and propose solutions to alleviate the effects of this pandemic. New programs must be implemented to detect the cases, too, of disorders such as anxiety, such as depression, such as those of eating behavior. More resources must also be offered to parents, who do not know where to go, while they see their son or daughter being consumed, without knowing absolutely what to do. And I think that the answer we give as an administration cannot be to say to them, 'I don't know, 'We don't have professionals, 'We don't have resources or 'Visit once every three months. That cannot be the answer we give as a society and as an administration, because, in our hands, what we have today is the most precious resource of any society: our young people. They are the hope of opportunity and the opportunity to change this society, to change the best. That rests on their backs, but on ours it is up to them to do what they can. And I therefore insist that we cannot settle with « We have no resources, with « We do not know, with « This..., we will see, « We have a plan..., etc.. It is a pity that we have to talk again, as President Aragonès said, twenty years later, about the same youth problems. Let's hope it doesn't last another 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.166.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.167.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Members, Members and Guests; also to the Secretary, the Directors General and the Director of the Agency, who are today with us to talk about youth. That said, it is a pleasure that the following plenary session will be held with so many young people in the Chamber, and I hope that it will not be a side event and that it will be the beginning of a change, of a real change and of a new way of making the Parliament of Catalonia much closer to the young people and citizens of our country. At the same time, I would like to give special recognition to the youth entities and the organizations you represented, an example of the associated movement of our country, and, in particular, to the Youth Nationalist of Catalonia, to always be there. Because, as a good friend said, in politics there is a pronoun that is often to be used, it's me, and, in change, there's another one that's to be repeated all the time and that's to be used all the time, and it's us. And with this will to do it together, to do it better, let us begin this debate of what we hope to make concrete proposals, concrete actions, sufficient resources to contribute to youth emancipation and to give response to the better-prepared generation of history, and that we must flee from this paternalism that we have always felt in this hemisphere. Entering into the detail of the question, I think it's important, as the companies that preceded me have done in the word, to place in this context what is the situation, what is the radiography of young people in our country. In fact, it has been explained how they are conditioned by two severe crises, a first financial crisis and a second health crisis. The effects on young people have caused that in the different life cycles, from childhood, from adolescence, from youth, conditioning our projects. As the Youth Observer made clear last year, young people are the most difficult social group to come by, but at the same time, unfortunately, we have been one of the collectors, not to mention the collection, most criminalized during this period, because we have to invite all the Members and Members to this deep reflection. A little more, therefore, than a decade in which the nine generations we have seen blocked part of our vital projects, and, as a consequence, this misnamed, as I said, "young precariousness has further multiplied the structural inequalities with which we already live. In fact, in order to continue to situate the state of the question, if I may, I would like to give some examples, with some data, of this appalling situation in which we have seen these last months and these last years. In the first place, it could not speak of another aspect than the state's tourist tax, a state's tourist tax that is currently found in the 29,6_per_cent, which, despite being far from the date of forty_per_cent to which we arrived, with peaks, during the covid-19, has caused the Spanish State to find again the Cua d'Europa. And the truth is that if we go to other areas such as emancipation, only two young people can, today, emancipate themselves in Catalonia, and the emancipation age is already transferred to the twenty-nine years and a half, three years over what the European media would be. And it's not minor people, either, to place mental salvation. In this sense, we can see how there is a devastating increase in what makes juvenile suicide, and it is already the first unnatural cause of death among young people. And we could go on, but I wouldn't want to repeat many of the data that some of the companies have mentioned in the words that preceded me, and that, in their conjunct, lead to answers with proposals for resolution that we have worked through two foundational pillars, such as participation and consensus. I am talking about participation, first of all, because we have listened to young people and we have done so with the active participation of youth political associations, and, more importantly, also taking into account how we still do not reach all young people. There are many young people not organized to whom we must approach. We must go to their spaces, to those who interact and to those who express their concerns. And, on the other hand, from the consensus; the consensus with the National Youth Council of Catalonia and with five parliamentary groups for these thirty proposals, which we hope will tomorrow, so we can approve and that they will be a victory for the young people of our country. In the face of these reflections, therefore... they allow us to identify the "on som, this X-ray, and to give concrete expression to the "on the way", with the proposals of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. As I said, three of them signed with five parliamentary groups, four signed with the political forces we support the Government, and one presented individually from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, which includes a total of eighty proposals for youth emancipation. First of all, I think that it should focus on these proposals in the field of work, in the field of employment – we have all not talked about – because, in fact, the best social policy, or one of the best social policies, without any doubt, must be the generation of employment, but more than that, worthy and of quality. And, in this sense, the proposals that we are going to put into effect are to provide the Youth Guarantee with a new focus that contributes once and for all to this so-called work continuity, but also other historical claims of the CNJC, such as the unique register of work and training practices, and also to schedule the elaboration of a plan that disregards practices and their remuneration. Finally, the deployment of the Youth Action Plan, to which 216_million euros have been allocated and from which 25,000 young people will benefit our country. Deploying us also works for entrepreneurship, for those self-employed people, who take initiative. We are a country of talent, bring it to term. Let's increase counseling, guidance, work inclusion. We study, at the same time, the updating of the minimum wage of reference to Catalonia. It is a basic and central axis to end this youthful precariousness of wages and reach a decent and middle wage like that of some countries around us, some countries in the world, which currently reach 1,400 and 1,500_euros. And we can't talk about occupation without talking about housing, because it can also reverse the housing emergence, and make it increase, of course, the public housing park of social housing in this thirty_per_cent so claimed, but more so, also with new construction that the Government of the Government realizes for persons under thirty-five years of age. And now, of course, the Spanish government has given up once and for all – because it is already running for an hour – the six-thousand empty habitations of the Sareb, essential to increase this public habitation park. And, before the different arguments and before the debate that has taken place today on housing, we also consider it to be regular, through the law of leases, the subletment of partially shared housing, a tape that we had pending from the Parliament of Catalonia and that we should address in this legislature in this Parliament. For what it does to mental salvation, another of the foundational pillars claimed by the National Youth Council, with its president, is a third bloc in which the Government of the Generality has increased resources with a benefit..., there is a game of 80_million euros, and it has to guarantee the psychological attention, especially through prevention, through early detection of all the young people, and do so through the food pipelines and the food disruptions and additions that are currently on the table. Concrete actions, at the same time, for the prevention of juvenile suicide, which is directed and which all come to the young people of the country. And a country ahead, a country that advances to the full knowledge society and guarantees this quality occupation, must also guarantee access to the formation of our young people, and do so through professional training, with this increase of thirty_per_cent, giving this exit the territorial map according to the needs of the product and business fabric, but more so, also betting for dual training, and arriving in this cup of forty_per_cent. And, obviously, from universities, with this process of reducing the public prices of Catalan universities initiated through the new law that we approved two weeks ago and which establishes this price maximum of 18,46€. That is to say, to give an example on the table: from course 22-23, any student with a degree in medicine or biotechnology will be costed the same price to enroll in the university career, which means approximately a thousand_cent_euros. And we can't stop talking about other factors in the field of universities, such as talent, talent attraction – we think it's basic – and doing so through the knowledge system that we currently have with the Beatriu de Pinos program, which must allow to complement the continuity of talent in our country and our system, but obviously, also betting on paid scholarships and other types of help that allow all young people, without leaving anyone else, to enter this training. And culture and language also become an uplifting factor, and they do so in complex moments for Catalan language and, above all, through social use among the youngest. In this sense, we consider it essential that we implement measures, for which it does the national pact for language, to protect, to encourage, to increase the use of català among young people, and, at the same time, also to encourage audiovisual content for which it makes adolescents and young people, and to guarantee access to it, as it could be with the initiatives of the Stage 25 until the thirtieth year. And, in its conjunction, to ensure that the rights of young people in the emancipation process are guaranteed and come to complete this full occupation, this full capacity to be able to create a proper life project. And it is through these terms that we also need to reflect, in the framework of the Catalonian Parliament, to reformulate and to re-debate the law of youth policies, but, more importantly, to focus on and approve the new national youth plan, as well as other policies, such as the recognition of education as a right for all, empowering the Young Carnet, empowering the youth plan, returning to the rural world, which is often not so much spoken and essential for emancipation. And a day like today could not be extended by the demands that there are few roads, by the collective demands of many young people. And it is in the field of public transport, in the field of mobility, where we cannot fail to reiterate the need for the State to complete the defined transfer of wheels in order to be able to directly manage the service and claim the transfer of the tariff deficit that has caused over the years. So, let's demand this again..., and let's put ourselves to the end of T-Mobility and the expansion of T-Young as a compromise that we had already sunk to the Parliament of Catalonia for the last few months in the framework of the Youth Policy Commission. In short, today we are bringing to Parliament some of the Junts' proposals for Catalonia – as we say, eighty – that respond to this emancipation, although we are aware that the best response to combat this ill-named "juvenile precariousness goes through the independence of our country, because all the tools that we could use to improve the lives of young people are ill-advisedly conditioned by the limitations of Spanish autonomy, characterized by this infra-financing that some, all of the sudden, are refusing to contemplate. And, in addition, the lack of State investment in Catalonia is an exhibition, in addition, when we see the strands that do not relax, where the historical debt, in addition, accumulates and means resources for our young, resources for the nine generations, key to combating these structural problems. And, finally, I would like to remind myself of one of the demands that I have also recalled from this Faristol on various occasions – some of my companions have commented on this – and it is that young people are the future, but to guarantee this future, as we begin to guarantee their presence. Therefore, it is at our hands that we make it possible, with the collaboration of youth associationism, of young people who are not yet organized and through whom we also have to arrive, and to do so through a Catalonia that says yes to opportunities, that says yes to a country that can manage its own resources and invest them in opportunities for our young people and for our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.168.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.169.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors and Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, Members of Youth Entities, the National Youth Council of Catalonia, MEP, Directors and Directors and Secretaries... There have already been many ideas, and I suppose that..., are things to do after intervention, but well... The cove and its consequences – health, social, economic – have made a situation more visible and more difficult that was already structurally precarious for young people, that we had difficulty in developing a vital project in our country, with the impossibility no longer to sort on living, but to emancipate ourselves in conditions, with a set of uncertainties growing in all aspects, beginning with work, that have also damaged the mental salvation of a significant part of young people. And it's enough to say: you can't accept, for one band, to suffer like no one else's precariousness, and, for the other, that above you say that it's our fault, all that happens to us. The country has a debt, with young people, a debt to which it can give an answer now and here, in this monographic plenary as a young person, which should not be the moment when it is spoken of young people, but should assume a point of inflection from which the young people mark much more the political agenda of the legislature, but not only as an object of concern, but as a political subject. It is the same young people who must be able to place the answers they want at these backs, in cooperation with institutions that correspond to them, that listen and that – why not? – They are also made up of young people from low to high and from high to low, the same way they have to be representative in other parameters of the diversity of our society. And today that still doesn't happen. Just look at this room, on which, still being the youngest in history, only a 2.96_per_cent– four out of 135 deputies– we have or have less than thirty years of age at the beginning of the legislature. Because it was said, and no, the young people are not the future, we are the present, and it is in this present that we already live, we already work, we want to emancipate, we already skate, we already form and we already organize ourselves. It is in this present that, from the future, we only want one thing: to be able to decide it ourselves. Because it is true that we cannot decide the adverse and hostile context that has touched our lives, but we can decide how we react, what answer we give from our own collective capacity as a generation, with your own vision, as a society, as a country that wants to be free and governed. [[Some applause.]] And this – allow me, here, an infinite recognition of the youth associative network of this country – will only be possible if we activate ourselves, if we organize ourselves from streets and institutions, calling the institutions to the demands of the street and focusing from the street in the direction of the institutions, cooperating, so that we only advance. And the examples are thousands, starting with the ILP on university preus approved in this very Ple, a victory of student movement that is already beginning to give its fruits, as we see in the public-university preus decree of the proper course. And that is why, because we are present and we are part of this society, that youth policies must inevitably be cross-cutting – cross-cutting – but they must be, because what should never happen to us is that this cross-cutting is served to dilute, but on the contrary: it must be used to focus on all aspects, and this Ple I believe will be a good show. It is important to increase the public housing stock to lodge with a specific reserve quota for young people; to give impetus to alternative models of access and tenure; to put the focus on rehabilitation and mobilization of housing in those rural areas that are in the process of depopulation in order to generate opportunities in all areas, in the young people of all regions of the country, and, in particular, for a dignified page, a sector that has long been undervalued. It can respond to the young man's emotional distress directly affecting his social and structural causes, preventing the disruptions of mental health, which are involving an alarming rise in youth suicide. It is also the time, also, to demand the transfer – a more time, and already triguen – of all the scholarships to be able to advance in a system that actually arrives to cover the difficulties of access to the higher study, which I inclue to begin this legislature with a program of paid scholarships. Dismiss the path marked only for the university, empower the professional formation. I, at the time of training in situ, may also pose a threat to labour exploitation in the form of non-remunerated curricular and extracurricular practices that must be used to train. They can't take structural places, but they can't afford young people who are also making a contribution to the business. We are still pioneers in this adaptation of the already inevitable European directive. And, decisively and in defense, we also fight male, racist and LGBTI-fóbic rapes. Any space of the night must have prevention and action protocols in place to ensure the right to the eye in freedom and security for all, and above all for all. At the same time, there is no right that we follow the youngest part of society that we will suffer the most from the consequences of the last decades party in terms of climate and environment. That is why we are also the young people who are most concerned and protagonists in the response, in the mitigation and adaptation before the climate change, because we cannot afford to make any more mistakes or waits or, above all, leave new mortgages to the young people of the future. And, to finish this list of proposals that we will have on the table and that I hope we will approve, but not to be less important, but to the contrary, because it is a cabdal element that we obviously gave, but now unfortunately we can no longer give by fact..., anti-feixist memory to avoid repetition of history. The young people of today are the third generation after the Faixist uprising and the dictatorship that followed him from 1939. We have the responsibility to be the generation that makes the net, that makes the historical memory and has clearly a phonenal question: the fascism, for a lot of freshness of "modern, social make, intent on attraction, loving of paternalism and moral teachings as we have been able to feel today towards young people, never brings any solution for the majority. It's a new scam to keep the privileges of corrupt and reactionary elites forever. I, since some of you are going to dig up bad old rudders, let's make one of them very simple: never again. [[Some applause.]] These are an exhibition, together with many others, of the proposals that we will discuss and approve. Investment commitments, some, which have also cited some companies, such as access to culture from the enlargement of Scene 25; help to promote the creation of digital, audiovisual and catalan networks, or the better conditions of public transport with the expansion of the T-young until the thirties. Programmatic, other, and resultant, also, from the debates of the Youth Policy Committee; from proposals that have brought us to entities through the same National Youth Council of Catalonia, to which we take advantage to recognize the indispensable task and role that each day makes, but also, and especially, for the celebration and impulse of this Ple on youth emancipation nine years after the end. Many of the demands are now still fully in force, and this has also been said and is an obvious reason for self-criticism, but also for learning. And I believe that the work planned for both the Youth Policy Commission and the various parliamentary groups and the national council is a good example of these learnings, of prioritizing to reach agreement on transformative and ambitious proposals that are realistic and tangible, measurable, that we will have to age for their compliment and deployment during the legislature. And this is where the success of this youthful plenary will be measured. A thank you to everyone who has participated generously and willingly. And, at this point, allow me also to give immense thanks to the companies and companies of the parliamentary group, but especially to the organization to which I belong, the Young Republic, a network of young organized organizations run by the Catalan Countries, sense doubt the most useful tool today for the empowerment of young people. It will always be a pride to have been able to represent this kingly thread of ninety-one years of history, of replenishment race generation, of... As we already say in the thirties, we are the besieged young woman of political and social justice who do not understand the freedom of Catalonia without the freedom of Catalans, because we also feel and want to be protagonists of deciding our future collection. It is essential that we follow what we use to contain what I mean, as soon as the 21st century enters, "the Catalan was born. Let us imagine a proud birth of its trajectory, which drinks of the multiple identities of its members; a birth that can only be said to be such, to be a ‘our own collection, in the measure that I did not leave behind, that does not fragment, but cohesion and strength. Independence, also the youth, lives today in a crux between making a certain return to resigned resistanceism that anchors itself in a sterilized symbolism and in the past – and thus, in fact, resigns from forming majorities to win – or looking forward without any doubt, that there are and it is normal that there are. After the years of national construction that followed the recovery of the post-Franchism Catalan institutions, 2010 came a parenthesis, a conservative well-being of anti-social, but also anti-national retailing, from which today we see results in the form of deficiencies in the policies of housing, language, positioning of the Catalan audiovisual, lack of accumulated reversal to the educational, health, social and university systems. And then came a few years of national liberation ambition, a few years in which we did what we had to do. But we need more, we want more young people. And this is more simple: to add to the ambition of liberation national construction. This must be the Catalan republicanism of this decade: to build a nation that wants to be independent also in the measure that it wants to raise its own voice in the global reptes and to make its unique contributions, among which the first is, obviously, the Catalan language, common language and which only has us; a Catalan nation that is strengthened and cohesive on the basis of guaranteeing opportunities and rights to all its children, which is measured according to the five opportunities that it is able to offer. And we don't want it and we can't do it alone, because what I'm explaining is not a political strategy, it's the essential condition for building any political strategy. And this birth of the 21st century that young people want and we will make independent of the decadent and corrupt Spanish monarchy is not alone in the world either. A few days ago we witnessed a historic victory of left-wing republicanism, Sinn Féin, north of Ireland. Every day, too today, many other people with freedom, justice and democracy accompany us. And I would like to take this opportunity to greet the representatives, among the public, of Galicia Nova and the member of the Parliament of Galicia Daniel Castro. Long live Galician celibum, lively Galician youth. [[Greetings.]] Because, in the end and in the end, we are clear that from the Spanish state young people are not fit nor can we expect anything good, and we have only been able to test their daily dysfunctions, as we see daily with Renfe –"with you it all began" – or, directly and disembodied, based on pals and political repression. And it is that only a Catalan republic that assures opportunities for all its citizens will be able to ensure youth emancipation in decent conditions. A Catalan republic that we have to build and explain. And the best way to explain it is by fact, ruling for everyone, transforming the country without stopping, exploring the limits and making evident the shortcomings of the current market. Because only those who are soft notice the chains. This Parliament wants to represent everyone who has lived in Catalonia, especially the younger generations, but, unfortunately, we have to admit that it still does not, not so formally alone. Twenty-eight thousand young people from the seventeen years of age said that today they do not have the right to vote, that it is still more paradoxical at a time when on the paper to the state there would be most to enlarge rights– but, once again, we see that those promises of opposition are oblivious when the PSOE rises to the government – together with Catalans to the foreigner, who suffer difficult difficulties in exercising their right to vote, or the millions of migrant people who live in our country, many of them young and that the State does not consider citizens. Today is also a good day to tell you, to tell you that I am one of ours, that we want you to be citizens and citizens of full right, in just likeness to dues, that these are the ones that society already demands. I'm done. This country can't give up its young people, because we don't want to, because we'd be giving up our own. On the contrary, we have a debt with young people, with young people at the time, with young people who cannot be emancipated, who have been living in these times of pandemic, especially those of the LGTBI collection; young women, young migrants, university students, associates, sportsmen, cau, esplai or popular culture. We have a debt and we want to match it. The demand is enormous, but I am convinced that this Parliament and this Government are there and will be on the rise. Obviously, young people, of course, as always, are demanding and willing to build hope. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.170.0	So, the debate is over, and according to the sequence that we agreed on at the Board of Spokesmen, I guess that the processing of the motions for resolutions that follow the debate will follow: the deadline for submitting the motions for resolutions will be until today, at the suspension of the plenary session; the qualification and communication to the parliamentary groups of the proposals that I admit the Bureau will be followed, after the plenary session, and the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until tomorrow at one. The presentation and voting of these motions for resolutions will tend to take place late. And, all the more, thanking the presence of all the young people and members of the government and guests who accompany us, we suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.171.0	Let's resume the session. [[Project of law of the statistical plan of Catalonia 2023-2028 and of amendment of Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of statistics of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00008/13]] And we do so with the third point of the order of the day, the debate of totality of the bill of law of the statistical platform of Catalonia 2023-2028 and of amendment of the Law 23/1998, of 30 December, of statistics of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, this legislative initiative will be presented by the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró, to whom I am now giving the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.172.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies... 38,4_percent of the inhabitants of Vilademuls, a municipality of Pla de l'Estany, have higher studies. In Catalonia, the proportion is 31.8. In Ódena, a municipality in the region, as you know, in Anoia, there are so many vehicles as inhabitants: 3,681 vehicles and 3,623 cars. In the conjunction of Catalonia, in change, there are two vehicles for every three people. The 186 Ways of County Prat, to the Upper Earth, generate a kilo and two hundred_grams of brush every day, if well fifty-seven_per_cent of these residues go by selective collection. By mid-January, Catalans do more brush than Comte Prat: we do one kilo four hundred_grams per person per day, but only forty-five_per_cent goes for selective collection. The GDP of a municipality that has all spoken very recently, the GDP of the municipality of Alcarrás, in Segria, is 238_million euros, or, which is the same, 25,200 euros per capita. This xifra is equivalent to only seventy-seven per cent of the average GDP per capita in the Catalonian conjunct. The data I just gave them, from these municipalities of Catalonia, I looked for them this morning, while preparing these words. The search was quick, simple and very intuitive. The disaggregated information for municipalities corresponds to one of the five statistical synthesis services that publishes the Idescat, named "Communicipis en chifres". This service is one of the most visited among all that this institute offers. In reality, we can qualify as successful the whole set of services provided by the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia; if not, that's exactly what the statistical data tell us. Between 2016 and 2020 the number of visits to the Idescat portal increased from 1,300,000 visits to 2_million_i_mig. During the same period, the number of visitors doubled: from 870,000 visitors in 2016 to 1,766,000 in 2020. Every day almost five thousand people access the website of the Idescat, and every day of the year each of these five thousand people makes about five queries. The bill for which they are being asked for their support needs to be further deepened in this excellence in Catalonia's statistical service. The text that we present to you will mean, if this Parliament approves it, a very important step forward in the innovation and expansion of the abst of the statistical data of our country. The law of the new Law 2023-2028 will allow us to expand the collection of data, incorporating new administrative and also private sources, such as the sources of the State Tax Administration Agency, the National Commission of Markets and Competition or various public and private entities of passenger transport, to put them - in three examples. The new platform will also provide us with aggregated business information, with a comprehensive sectoral detail and very up-to-date data. And this will provide us with an understanding of the economic reality of the country even more accurate than we have today. The plan I have to tell you is to look at significantly improving the production of information on the job market, which is one of the issues I think we need to do more at these times. We can, from then on, make much more adjusted approaches to wages at different levels in the area of the territory, based on social security contributions. At these times these approaches are being made with annual surveys, and, as you can understand, with data that we only have once a year, the data that we get are much less accurate. Also in the field of work, we can know much better the mobility of Catalans for professional reasons. More than that, the plan envisages exploring, experimenting and innovation in data processing. For example, the aggregated information on the use of mobile phones or on the use of transport titles in the country will help us to have a better understanding of the mobility of the population. We may also have more accurate information about one of the country's leading industries, tourism. We can access data from four digital platforms thanks to an agreement we signed with the European statistical office. I have started this intervention with some data that may seem and perhaps seem anecdotal about four municipalities in Catalonia. They may seem so, but they're not at all. The highest level of data disaggregation is that which allows the highest level of policy focus. For this reason, the plan envisages providing information up to the level of the micro-populations and expanding what is already offered from the rural and mountain areas. And all that, for one reason: I think statistical information is crucial at the time of designing public policies. It is the data, and only the data, that tell us where we really have a problem, and only the data tell us whether the policies we have designed to correct this problem work or not – it is the data. Precisely for this reason, the plan proposes to further facilitate scientific research activities by simplifying access to data for researchers and facilitating the evaluation of public policies by independent agents. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Catalonia's statistical system, which has its cornerstone in the statistical institute, are doing a splendid job. I consider this to be a public service of first necessity, for two reasons: for a question of transparency with the citizenry and for a question, too, of taxation of government action. This plan that we present for its parliamentary processing deepens, from independence and scientific rigour, in all two lines: transparency and taxation. They ask them, therefore, that they want to facilitate their journey, and that from the coming year we can have a new statistical plan for the next five years. The assumption of the Idescat for this year 2022 – if I may recall – is 8,2_million euros– 8,2 –; the assumption of the National Institute of Statistics is 193_million euros. The staff of the Idescat for this year 22 is one hundred_one persons; the staff of the National Institute of Statistics is four_ thousand persons. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.173.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then, as no totality papers have been submitted, parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position, for a maximum of two minutes per group. And will begin, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.174.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. With this bill of law we put up with the need, according to the law of statistics, to approve in the Parliament the statistical plan of Catalonia, which until now had a four-year term, while the extensions of this one have repeatedly extended this term and will now become the six-year term that the councillor commented a few minutes ago. The plan is the ordering and planning instrument of the statistics of interest to the Generality, and it contains in its article the general objectives, the specifics, the object focused on institutional collaboration in statistical matters and the criteria and priorities for the execution of the plan, as well as the modification of the articles of the Law of Statistics that we commented on, 23/98, in those elements necessary to fit the same implementation of the plan and other questions that should be updated, as monetary issues, let us say – change from pessets to euros –, or the first life of the plan, which, as I said, becomes gender. Since the 18th century, knowing and converting into intelligible data the things that surround us have been considered important. The statistical phrase, attributed to the Prussian economist Gottfried Achenwall – who defined it as "things belonging to or corresponding to the State" – was from then on the meaning of gathering information and extruding conclusions that are relevant, useful or, in fact, necessary for decision making. In this sense, this plan must be the instrument for ordering and planning the statistics of the Generality. And, in this sense, the very object of the plan is also backwards, which must be aligned with the European statistical regulation, with the European data strategy of 2020 and with the European statistical programme 2021-27. As a matter of priority, in this area, I believe that the following should be highlighted: the improvement in the mechanisms of collaboration and coordination of the statistical system; the conversion of the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia into a strategic information node also for scientific research and the evaluation of public policies through the effective integration and reuse of data; the adaptation of official statistics to meet the demand for social, economic, demographic and environmental information; and the improvement of the mechanisms for dissemination of data and the efficient use of data. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of this bill. That is why, before this intervention is over, I would like to reflect a little bit more on the eminently technical content of this law, this statistical platform, if you want it, of general or more epistemological character, even more so, on the statistical matter, and especially on the neutrality of data or convenience and the need for data to have this neutral character. Obviously, we live in the data age. If the 19th century was the industrial century and the 20th century was computer science, we moved to the 21st century..., to be the data century. The same European strategy of data that I have just outlined refers to the potential of the predicted figures in data by 2025, focusing, basically, on the economic recourse at the industrial and commercial level of data. But it is also important, as much as this economic component, to the future related to knowledge at the social level. And here too is the central importance of the data neutrality he was commenting on, and especially of the use of these. In the face of the nickname "datacenterism or dataism", which starts from a vision practically that the universe is essentially a flow of data, the quantification of which produces the truth, we can contrast opinions like that of the Basque philosopher Daniel Innerarity, who before this vision claims that the data are not necessarily the opposite of the ideological obfuscation. The proliferation of data without context and without a coherent narrative can bring us from the democracy of knowledge to the society of disconnection, citing, precisely, two titles of this philosophy, in the measure that data, if not introduced into a context of relevancy and neutrality, is not converted into information and knowledge that is truly useful and relevant to decision making. Otherwise, they can become, as in counterpoint..., to the service of the construction of own interpretations of post-truth, always, also, sustained with data. We've seen this happen in this same room. In reference..., and let me, to finish – now yes –, to make the example no less recur from the cygonies, eh? It is that example that many times is put in the faculty when you are explained questions related to statistics. Spring is the time of the year when swans come. Spring is the time of year when more creatures are needed. From here we can draw a conclusion, which is that the storks carry the creatures. So, obviously, it's a relationship, obviously, data-based spuria. Here, I insist, the data must contextualize them, and above all, use them with neutrality parameters. Alternatively, they can, unlike being used for a good decision making, be used to use theories or arguments that are absolutely pure. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.175.0	After this spring intervention [[relays]] We now give the word to Mr Andrés Bello of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.176.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, it is really difficult, on a subject like this, to put on a note of humor, which is why we are grateful for the previous speech. Well, today the Government of the Generalitat brings us the bill to amend the law of statistics of Catalonia, while, as has already been mentioned, to approve the statistical plan 2023-2028. Good, but before we enter into a technical debate on the content, which will take place at the time, we believe that we must make a political assessment here in plenary. Let's see, then, first of all, what is the regulatory framework within which this law of statistics of Catalonia fits. Article 149.1, paragraph 31, of the Spanish Constitution states: "The State has exclusive competence over the following matters: statistics for State purposes. For its part, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in its article 135, entitled "Statistics", regulates the following: "The Generalitat has exclusive competence over statistics of interest to the Generalitat, which includes in any case: statistical planning, administrative organization, the creation of an official statistical system of the Generalitat's own, and "the Generalitat participates and collaborates in the elaboration of statistics of supraautonomic scope. We see, therefore, that both the State and the Generalitat have powers in the field of statistics. In the case of the State, according to the Constitution, for state purposes, and, in the case of the Generalitat, on statistics of interest to the region. Both formulations are ambiguous enough so that they can be given multiple interpretations. Thus, the Spanish law, 12/1989, of the public statistical function, attempts, in the fifth paragraph of its explanatory statement and, subsequently, in articles 40 to 43, to interpret the scope of State competence and its disregard for that of the autonomous communities. Even if he doesn't, he does give us some ideas. Let's see what we can do. He tells us: "The material scope to which state statistics can be extended is potentially unlimited. "From the functional point of view, article 149.1 of the Constitution – which I have already mentioned – allows the State to carry out "statistical operations that relate to its ends from beginning to end. "Statistics for State purposes are all those that the State agrees, without more limit than the formal to include those in the national statistical plan or to approve those, with such condition, in a real decree. "Specific statistics of State interest can be executed in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities through a system of conventions – then I will return to that –: possibility for the State services themselves to deal with the production of statistics of limited territorial scope; obligation to exchange statistical information between the State and the Autonomous Communities; possibility of concluding agreements between the State and the Autonomous Communities concerning the development of statistical operations. One of the objectives of these agreements, the law tells us, is to ‘avoid duplication and expense' – I will also come back to that later. "State statistical services may carry out statistics of autonomous interest on behalf of an autonomous community. Good. As we can see, the law of the State recognizes this lack of delineation of competences between the State and Generalitat, and offers various forms of "collaboration – I will also return to this word – between the two. It should also be borne in mind that the statistical information needs of each of the seventeen autonomous communities must be, by force, similar, so that they can go to the path of collaboration and the convention can obtain obvious economies of scale that lead to a significant decrease in public expenditure. Well, what has the Generalitat done in this case? What is to be expected: it developed competition with its own law, which we are now proposing to amend, and it created, as has been said, an agency to manage it. And here we want to make it clear, once again, that the fact that there are other autonomous communities that have done similar things does not relieve the Generalitat of the responsibilities it has in our view to misuse public resources. The current law of statistics of Catalonia created – it has also been said – the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, the Idescat, which for this year 2022 has allocated a budget of – the councillor has commented – 8,272,169 euros; 8,272,000 euros, which to the councillor have seemed very little. It seems a lot to me, to you it seemed very little. I think it is appropriate for citizens to know how much public services cost us. [[Some applause.]] The existence of this body represents an obvious duplicity with the State agency with the same function, and we have already seen that the law provides for various forms of collaboration that would allow all statistical functions to be carried out by the National Institute of Statistics. So, what is the reason for the existence of the Idescat, when it involves an obvious duplicity of organisms? In order to obtain the answer, we must situate ourselves in the separatist imaginary and its obsession with what they call ‘creating state structures, that is, creating as many organisms as are necessary to give the appearance of being a state. We all know that this is not going to happen, but the separatists have been struggling for many years to distinguish their fantasies from reality. But the following reflection seems obvious: "This fantasy must cost a lot of money. Yes, as has been said, EUR 8.2 million each year. However, as we already know, the separatists are not overly concerned about wasted money. From VOX we believe that all public administrations must make efficient use of public money, and continually strive to achieve it. We also recognize – and we also want to make it clear – the importance of statistical information and the obvious benefits it generates, of which, by the way, Spain has been a benchmark for decades. However, the Spanish cannot afford to have duplicated expenditure as is currently the case with statistical information agencies. Thus, given that the current legislation offers multiple avenues of collaboration between the State and the autonomous communities themselves, the Generalitat de Catalunya should negotiate with the State to carry out the necessary work in this field in order to obtain the statistical information of regional interest that at this time is not the subject of study by the statistical services of the State – if any, I suppose so – by signing the necessary collaboration agreements. With this collaboration, the existence of the aforementioned Idescat would no longer make sense, with which the Generalitat of Catalonia would achieve an annual savings of 8,2_million_of_euros– it seems little, to the councillor – that it could dedicate to helping to meet the basic needs of the most disadvantaged Catalan citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.177.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.178.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Congressman Riba argued that the 19th century was a century on..., was that of the industry, or we could say that the revolution made it steam, that the 20th century was the century of computer science and that the 21st century..., are given to them. And it's real, the dice are, to be sure, today's a cool topic. In fact, in the words of a French economist, Cédric Durand, the digital gathering of data has become the holy Grail of which we could call "technofeudalism, in the background, the holy Grail of the productive economy. In fact, data is now the most valuable value of the world economy; in fact, more than oil. Users – it is, we, citizens – we need to access data over the Internet because we no longer have them in our possession, but they are secreted by the great placards on their servers, that they process them and that they have no economic value. In fact, the benefit they do not get is proportional to the amount of data: as more data, more benefits. That's why companies like Google, Facebook or Amazon take absurd amounts of data about their customers; in the background, about all of us, because I think that all of us are Google users – a rare person in the western world is not Google user. Therefore, there are those who negotiate with our data. That's why, too, it turns into a key having public tools that also serve to make policies, because it's not just..., or today we're talking about the statistical plan: it's not a question of data accumulation; it's a question of getting data to extrude conclusions, getting data to define policies, getting data to assess policies, right? And, therefore, this is also one of the key elements of public service or public policy: to be able to have these data from a public point of view, and therefore also to guarantee confidentiality, but to have data to be able to move forward and make policies that fit the reality of the country. But it is no longer just on the part of public administrations, to be able to do these policies, but it is also on the part of the citizenry, to be able to evaluate the policies that governments make to come back, to assess whether that policy to respond to a specific need responds to this or not and makes progress or evolves reality. Therefore, it is necessary to reflect, and also to address the importance that we give or do not give to these data and to the use that in fact, because we often talk about the data of the Idescat, but then we use them or read them as we want, right? The gross salary in Catalonia – annual – year 2019 was 25,968.20_euros per year. In men it's around 29,000; in women it's under, as always, obviously. This is the annual gross salary in Catalonia, in the middle, according to the Idescat. The Member of this House who lives in Barcelona charges 63,143.36 euros gross per year, more than twice the annual gross salary in Catalonia. I believe that, in the debate we have on this chamber, this reality and the data of the Idescat we also have to take into account at the time that we can be aware of who are the privileges that the 135 people in this chamber have. But we could also take into account... 25,968,20_gross in the year. The middle class conception that has often been expressed in this room I think is far from this annual gross salary. Because, if there is anyone who for years has agreed to defend that charging sixty thousand euros gross in the year is middle class, let me know what the majority of the population is because the annual gross salary is 25,968_ euros. Sixty thousand euros gross per year is not middle class, ladies and gentlemen. The Idescat is the space we use and we give it credibility and valid for the figures: yes or no. That's what we define policies, because if it's the space we give him credibility and validity, it means that the rest of the criteria that we use when we're politically interested in defending a series of people aren't the ones that match. The figures are who they are. In fact, there are political interests at the end, at the time of reading the figures, the data that the Idescat offers us. Therefore, often the arguments that we use to defend concrete collections have nothing to do with defending the rights of the middle classes or from the people of this country, because I would say that the middle class, after more than two years of systemic crisis, no longer exists. Therefore, we have to take this into account. Or another way to analyze the figures: the linguistic uses of the year 2018. Here's who goes systematically to say that the castle is persecuted, minorityd, and bans the use of the castle. Linguistic uses, 2018: thirty-sis_per_cent of the population of Catalonia usually speaks in Catalan; forty-nine_per_cent usually speaks in castle. But, go on, it must be up to the political interests that some defend, that say one thing and not another. Therefore, we have to take this into account. And, to end, too, with what it was talking about and someone raising the neutrality of the data. As I was saying, there's no data neutrality, it's not true. In the same way that, despite the fact that some institutions are not neutral, institutions are not neutral, because policies that favor one or the other, data are not neutral, because in essence statistics is not an exact science – allow me to deform professionally. Statistics is not an exact science, and therefore it is obviously very difficult or distressed to say that we extract objective and neutral values. It is not true that objective and neutral assessments are made. Statistics aren't neutral. We can find situations where we find that, depending on what we ask, we get some results or some others, right? ; or when we ask, we get some results or others, because the realities are also changing. But a person, for example, with a precarious time job at a given time will consist of the active population at the active population survey, and at another time will consist of the non-active. Therefore, the realities also change. And so, at the time of assessing and analysing the data that Idescat or statistics gives us, we have this: there are no objective values and there are no neutral data in this framework. Based on these reflections, we, therefore, obviously have not presented a statement to the totality. We understand, however, that it is a political debate and not a technical law, because it is not – it has a lot of political content – because it has to mark and it should mark the future policies of this country and it should also allow the citizenry to assess the policies it carries out in front of the government that follows. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.179.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.180.0	Good afternoon. Well, we'll vote in favour of dealing with this law. We understand that it is urgent, that it is necessary. I want to start by saying, on all sides, that Idescat is a necessary instrument and that it has a very good work team. It's got to get better, obviously, and I think we can do things in the process. The counselor has started with some statistics, which allows me to also sit on the same level, but I will do a statistic..., a question of statistics, right? , that gave the poetess Piedad Bonnett. She's a Colombian poet, so I'll read it in her mother tongue. Question of statistics. I was looking for one of the Salvat-Papasseit, but she was a prose and I don't like it that much. "Question of statistics. / There were twenty-two, says the chronicle. / Seventeen men, three women, / two children with winged gazes, / seventy_and three shots, four creeds, / three deep curses, quenched, / forty_and_four feet with their shoes, / forty_and_four unarmed hands, / one fear, a hatred that crept, / and a thousand silences extending/ their bandages over the mutilated soul. It's important to know the reality. We certainly need reliable, up-to-date data. I believe that this poet makes it clear to us that data is necessary to know the complex realities and to intervene to change them. We need data that allows us to do politics, because doing politics is changing reality. This is why we need to have a powerful instrument that provides us with reliable, up-to-date data; that allows us to know where we are, that allows us to know how we evolve, that allows us to compare, that allows us to unbundle, that allows us to represent. I need to do politics. Each one will do the policy he wants, but he has to do it from the actual data, to justify what he wants to change and why. That's why we need a robust, powerful, modern, well-equipped instrument, and that's why we need to update Catalonia's statistical map now, because, unfortunately, it's been a few years since we've been in prorogation. It has expired, the latest statistical plan, the year 2020. Let's go Now we're making a change. We're at 22, and the next one will be for six years. Well, no problem. I think in the process we have to try to introduce some elements of better. We will not do this now, we will do it already in the process, but it is important to have a law and seek to build the maximum consensus. I think we should go a little further than we have. There are opportunities to improve on what we have. It is necessary to enhance the Statistical Català Council. We have its composition, it works, but it's an overly bureaucratic instrument. We can give it more dynamism, more power, more intervention, which more effectively directs the statistics that we need to do our jobs. We need data to address the challenges of the country. As far as we are concerned, the instruments of indicators needed to address this inequality are growing, this necessary product model change, and to be able to govern transitions; to put in place indicators that allow us to know where we are from the European social pillar. It may, in a way, improve the device of indicators that we have today because it helps us in this line. It can also facilitate access to data, make it easier to access data and to be able to work data. Today, unfortunately, we still have data arriving in 2019 or 2018, that the breakdowns are not enough either in socio-economic areas or in territorial areas. We've got to go back there. We do not have, sometimes, comparisons with other territories, areas that can be comparable with our own. We need to work in some way this way, data and how we access them also through the information media. And it would also be good to see how we can guarantee free access to data from economic and social agents and those non-university institutions, which already do so, but also from these other non-profit entities, social agents, who want and can use these data to be able to intervene in their functions, which are ultimately public interest. I think that's what we'll have to try to do through the parliamentary process of this law. We need, we need to have this update of the statistical plan, because we also need to make a decided bet to improve and enhance the Idescat. It is a necessary instrument, it is a good team of work, but it must be given greater economic sufficiency, also with more material and human resources, in order to be able to make all these tasks of future that are essential for us to be able to act and go to the detail of the changes we need. But to change things, we need to know where we are. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.181.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.182.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your explanation on this reform of the statistical platform of the Generalitat. We really appreciate the prolific explanation that has given us, because, indeed, we agree, in general terms, on the importance of statistics for public policy making. Indeed, statistics is a fundamental tool for making public policies that are truly oriented to the common good, that are really oriented to the general interest and the welfare of the city council. And that's why it's also very important that we think that maybe it doesn't take into account, in general terms – I don't know if it's going to start from now on to be a fundamental aspect – that it's how society can exercise social control over, let's say, the motivation of different investigations, the objects of these investigations, and also how this information is used by governments. That is to say, we believe that there must be more important control, more strict control, more firm, over the action that governments do – that of the Generality, but also the Government of Spain – in this matter of statistics. Because, I insist, we consider that it is a phonetic tool, but that it may often have uses not always geared to the general welfare, or even all pure uses. From the outset, we have already told him that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, of this law proposal, because, moreover, we consider it essential that this reform be carried out immediately. The current law has been in force since the 17th and it was until the 20th, and, therefore, it's more than a year and a half since the law, so it's not, let's say, updated, and that's what we think is really worrying. We want to value the work that has traditionally done the Idescat. The Idescat has done a professional and rigorous job, in most cases. It is true that he had a time when his director was accused, precisely at a time when all the Catalan institutions, all the administrations and, concretely, the institutions that they have to see with the municipal masters and also with the censuses, were especially pressured during the months that lasted the 17th, between September 6 and 7, and October 1 of the 17th. And, from this point of view, we regret that on that concrete occasion the Idescat suffered a profound institutional degradation of results in a way of exercising power, to our opinion, therefore, with a tendency to authoritarianism and lack of transparency – essential in democracy. On the other hand, we have to do the toilet, Mr. Counselor, which you are late. This reform should have been produced before, which allows us to make the criticism that we believe is acceptable and that it has, let us say, if not, a well-founded basis, that all that is not going on, all that is not confrontation with the rest of Spain, to Catalonia passes to a _second term; passes, let us say, to be considered a subaltern thing, less important, and ends up having a substance always late, that we regret above all in matters of particular importance. From this point of view, we would also like to dwell on a question, which is the fact that, in a matter as important as that of statistics, there are organs and important institutions in the management of data..., such as, for example, the Catalan Data Protection Authority, the current director of which is Mrs Meritxell Borràs, a person who formed part, precisely, of that time of state – or that each person tells her how he sees it –, in the wake of the democracy of 17th, who had devastating consequences for the institutional stability of Catalonia. And we believe that this appointment as the director of the Catalan Data Protection Authority of Ms. Borrás, is more than questionable, because we precisely consider – and said before – that it is essential that there can be social control over how these data are managed. Apart from this, we also consider that, since we are talking about data management, and in this case, also about what the Government can do, we can ask the citizenry to have an X-ray of how it is at a certain time, a photograph, even at all, of how it is at a certain time the Catalan society, we believe that it was also interesting that the window of possibilities for knowing elements that, surely, many times remain, to our mind, in an interested way, say to us, underground or sometimes in the public debate, such as, for example, the fact that from the CEO and by creating data with the Idescate, logically, and making use of a management that has to do, logically, the Institute of Statistics of Catalonia, for example, of the fact that from the CEO and by creating data with the Idecate, legally, and by making use of the very thing that has been used in the past, by the very fact that it has been used in the past. Well, I think it would be very interesting to ask a question that – keep'm' wrong to me, Mr. Counselor –..., I think until now the CEO, the Generality's Center for Opinion Studies, either he has never asked or he has asked on some occasion, but many years ago, and he has stopped doing so for some reason that escapes me, which is precisely the question that he has to see with the linguistic model preferences that the citizens of Catalonia have. To ask, to our mind, since many times in this Parliament we talk about the linguistic model that some defend – some defend a monolingual model in Catalan, and some other defend a model, if not bilingual, and, if it can be, trilingual, with Catalan, castle and English as in vehicular languages – so we think it would be interesting. Although both the CEO and the Idescat, then, in the management of the information, hold or offer to the citizenship data on which is the preferred model for the conjunction of the citizenship of Catalonia in language matter. As easy as asking the citizen of Catalonia: "Do you prefer a monolingual model in Catalan as the current one or would you prefer to have a trilingual model or, if not, bilingual model in Catalan and Castle and, preferably, English? I think it would be as simple as that. And we would certainly avoid many curses and many discussions often superfluous and exhausting. I said to Mrs. Reguant – and I think she was scarcely precise – that some people say that Catalonia is forbidden to speak Spanish. I'm guarding'm' wrong, Mrs. Regunant – I've never heard of a deputy from Ciutadans, if not more – from other parties I don't think, however, it goes, in any case, that each one responds for himself – saying that Catalonia is forbidden to speak the castle. I have heard and said many times, quite simply, that in Catalonia, officially, in institutional Catalonia, the castle is lacking. I have never said that it is forbidden to speak to castles, to the Catalan classrooms or to the Catalan Public Administration. What is obvious, to our mind, is that, when we have a monolingual system in Catalan, the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia is absolutely covered with the educational system as the vehicle language, which is something that would be so simple to do, so... that some people are going to present it as a complicated thing, but it is not at all. In any case, counselor, we insist on what we said before: we believe that this reform, this law, is essential. We believe, as I said, that up late, but we want to make, logically, a vote of confidence. We think there are things that are essential to a government. We do not believe that it is problematic for an autonomous government to have a statistical service; on the contrary, we believe that an autonomous government that has such broad powers as the Government of the Generality must have a statistical service, or it is, if not, plausible that it has. Is it possible to arbitrate other forms of collaboration with the National Statistical Centre, with the National Statistical Centre? So perhaps yes, but in our opinion, it is not necessarily problematic that the Generality has an instrument, a tool that, we insist, can result in important benefits for citizens by making good use of the mechanism. Therefore, the general criticism that from certain sectors is simply to the principle of autonomy, obviously we cannot share it, because we are firm supporters of autonomy, which does not mean that it is not rationalizing certain things, but the firmness in our defence of autonomy, precisely, starts from the institutional loyalty between autonomy and central government, and, above all, from the basis, of fact – to my, absolutely undeniable – that when there is to have a balance between powers, weights and counterweights, checks between powers, it is necessary that it is not only horizontal – a legislative power, an executed power and a judicial power that is controlled between itself – but also vertical, between the central government or the State, the General Administration of the State, the autonomy and the local power. We think that, from the point of view of the articulation of a composite state, it is. And, therefore, we make a vote of confidence in the Government of the Generality and we will either approve or support the approval of this reform precisely to promote a good use of the statistical data that can handle the Idescat in the future. So, that's all, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.183.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.184.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolgut advisor... to greet also Mr. Xavier Quadras, director of the Idescat, and all his team, for the well done work, as shown by what they are bringing us here today. I liked your introduction very much, counselor, because it shows that the Idescat serves something. It serves to get in to degenerate the information we have in our country. While you were talking, I thought: "Shut up, maybe the INE does too, that. Maybe the INE is also capable of doing what you said. I went to Google, I searched for INE and I put it there. Do you know what's going on? That doesn't exist, you will, for the INE. Either way, Mitja Alemanya knows what Alcarra is, and the INE doesn't know what Alcarra is. Then I understand there's an agreement, huh? , between the Generality and the State not to climb us – not to do double work, Mr. Bello, eh? That works like that, it's not a double job. We've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, Why then I thought: "And if I do now... let's imagine that I'm a businessman in the gas station and I want to set up a new gas station in Alcaras, right? "Listen to me, how many cars are there in Alcarras? Poses« Idescat, Alcarras, vehicles, and you say : « 8.390. But straight, huh? Do it. Those who have computer, do it. They're doing the same thing... at the INE they don't, because we already know that Alcarrás doesn't exist, but they're doing the same thing to Pinto or Valdemoro, huh? , which have always followed two names that I liked very much. They don't exist either. In other words, the petrol company that wants to put a petrol company in Pinto or Valdemoro will not know, through the INE, how many cars there are. So, listen to me, this is what we do to Catalonia in everything we can, with all the skills we have. When we can, we do things very well girls, we excel to help people, citizens and businesses. And now, you see where, science, huh? And this is the key or one of the keys to this new proposal, the bill we're debating today. The legislative initiative that we are debating today responds to the mandate of Law 23/1998, the law of statistics of Catalonia, which requires the approval of the statistical plan by means of a law in Parliament. Once approved for the government the bill that will regulate, in this case, the statistical set of Catalonia, has to be brought to Parliament to start a process, which is where we are now. The law is expected to enter into force on the 1st generation of 2023, if we are able to approve it – that I am convinced it is – and, as I say, it is the set plan. The first one began in 1992; the previous one was until 2014, and the one that now ends, until 2020, which is extended, as has already been said, the maximum – two years of extension – to reach 2022. This law, therefore, will replace this last plan, and we will approve one, if all is well, for the period 2023-2028. It will be the first time that it will be approved, as it was said, for six years, while until now there are four. Why did this happen? Because European practice went between the five and the seven years. Therefore, we also want to be European in this, and we do so as Europeans. The process of making this bill has been a real team job, and I also want to congratulate you on this – up to thirty-seven people involved in different departments involved in the matter – and it is a bill with forty articles and four chapters that are included in the first title of the bill. The first chapter speaks of general dispositions, where the planning, the duration, the principles of the statistical plan are defined. The second chapter specifies the objectives of the plan; the nature of the organs; the guidelines; the mechanisms of follow-up and evaluation; mechanisms of improvement, with remarkable innovations; fields and sub-areas of action; mechanisms of promotion and collaboration, and guarantees of access to data. The third chapter defines the institutional collaboration mark with the Idescat. And finally, the fourth chapter describes how to execute the statistical plan with annual performance programs that have been renewed and can be modified, their requirements, approval mechanisms and performance reports. There is a _second title where changes to the articles of Law 23/1998 are described. And finally, the bill provides for derogations and a final provision. Now, the main reasons for proposing approval of this bill are, for a band, to renew, a copy of the final draft, but also, in this case, to take advantage of the official statistical production to suit the company's responses and requests for information, with two main proposals: firstly, to enhance the role and quality of official statistics, and, on the other hand, to convert the Idescat into an information node that is also in the service of research and the evaluation of public policies with scientific purposes, through the integration and reuse of data. So we're going beyond what we've been up until now. With these improvements, Idescat will rise to the top of the best European statistical systems. That is to say, it will not only be better than the INE, which is already seen – with what I have said is already seen – but, more than that, since we want to be a country that is based on transformation based on the society of knowledge..., we need to make the data available to the knowledge of science. And, therefore, these statistics will be open to everyone, too, now for scientific purposes. In a way, Idescat is a small structure of state. Actually, as I said before, the INE doesn't exist. So that's what we've had for a while, and we're doing it, and we're doing it really well. Put in value what Catalonia is with data, and that's key. To do it, to do it well, is interesting, but to be innovative and to put ourselves at the level of the most advanced European states is a challenge that I am sure we will be able to thank the team that is leading it. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, if I recall the deputies that we were at the committee of... the CAI, the group of Catalonia 2022 came, and explained to us the results of its study. And one of the things he did the most was... he recommended that we do politics based on data, reality. I would add that we don't do it on the basis of fake news, which is what happens continuously with these games, above all the higher ones, but also sometimes further down, from this gang of the hemicicle. Things are as they are, not as you come to most people, people who, sometimes, therefore, are left entangled by the headlines of the communication media that you, directly or indirectly, end up controlling. Today, without going any further, in a question raised by Mr Martin Blanco to the Councillor Giró, it has become clear that answers with data are unbeatable. You can ask and see things happen, and when you give the data you show that reality is another. Catalonia, economically, was much better than the middle of the Spanish State, Mr Martín Blanco, for much that you ask questions and then the vague media say what you want. So, listen, data is very important. And I, as a Member– and here I add..., would like to add to it and try to give it an added value–, ask those responsible for the Idecat to try to do the maximum of teaching with this new plan; to show society in a visual, simple, attractive way, which is reality, because we live in a mass–mass– society contaminated by fake news, and we need people to know reality, which is really happening. Therefore, they have a challenge, too, to help society to have, as easily as possible, all that information that is necessary or useful for making decisions. In fact, I invite the union parties of this chamber to enter the INE with something else we haven't talked about yet, and that's the language. I went into the INE and looked at how many idioms there were. How many do you think there are at the INE? There is no one, no; there are two. There's Spanish and English. It is curious, because the català, that, according to you defending a constitution, your Constitution, which says at a point that "the richness of the different linguistic modes of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be object of special respect and protection..., to the INE is equal. Neither the català nor the gallec nor any other language of the State. There's the English, but I also recommend that they look at the English, because they'll find that we're doing a little more than that. Because they'll find that when they look for things in English, half the results are in the castle and half in English. I mean, it gives a feeling to a stranger that it's not the best picture I'd want for my country, but, well, it's his, they'll be blown away. [[Widow's remorse.]] Out of the bo– out of the bo– obliging the organizations of the State, you who can and who govern Spain, to publish even though it was the twenty-i-five_per_cent– twenty-i-five_per_cent– of the information to the official websites of the State in other languages; I no longer say everything in Catalan, eh? But a little bit of everything, a little bit of it here, a little bit of it there. Twenty-five per cent, we don't ask any more, huh? You understand why I say twenty-five percent, don't you? In any case, we are clear that the only option to save the catalá is independence. Well, finally, I want to put emphasis on this bill, plus, innovative aspects of information sources, as well as on statistical methods and areas of study based on experimental statistics, and at the same time contributes to the efficient use of administrative information and data available to private entities. And finally, as we're talking about data, I'd like to remember that since the last time I was in this faristol fifteen days ago and I've been talking about the fallen benefits of cell..., on these fifteen days, the IBEX companies have won 1,500_million euros more fallen from cell – that's what they are –, that's half of all they won in 2019. What have you done, Mr. PSOE and Mr. Podemos? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.185.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.186.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. In this plenary all too often we refer to the situation in Catalonia to justify the need for our proposals, to explain the problems we want to address, because we want to highlight its urgency, we want to put the focus on which are the priorities of our people to solve them. And here is the importance of being able to have data, of being able to have data so that we can develop evidence-based policies, science-based policies. It is thanks to the work of the Idescat that we can say that the first wave of the covid assumed that the GDP of the second quarter of 2020 fell in a setze_per_cent compared to the first quarter of 2020, and also that in the first quarter of 2021 a 3.2_per_cent is growing. It is thanks to the Idescat that we can say that, despite the fact that the average income of the population grew by 4.8_per_cent in 2020, this growth was still uneven, with a peak of Gini's index of almost thirty-two points, and that the poor in Catalonia, with a 21.7_per_per_cent of citizens at risk of poverty and social exclusion, is still high, even above the European average, and still has a massive impact on foreigners, single-parent lars – especially monomarentals – and people who come from logging, such as the rate of poor oscillation between forty-two and fifty-five_per_cent. And also the data of the Idescat allow us to know that the origin of the energy consumed in Catalonia..., in a 69,1_per_cent are fossil fuels. Therefore, based on these data, we can develop evidence-based policies that can transform reality and address the four transformations – green, social, feminist and democratic – to which President Aragonès refers in his investiture speech, and which are the four engines of the government's political action. And, therefore, we can justify the work done for the government, in being the first one to bet decisively for gratuity from zero to three years, the first one to lower the prices of access as many masters as university degrees, the one that has the ability to put thread to the needle in the content of rendering the lloger or the ambition at the time of planting a pilot plan for universal basic income. But as I said before, first we need the data. It is essential to make the picture of our reality, to be able to summarize and explain a world that is complex, that is multidimensional. It is essential to avoid a fallacious debate, full of dialectic traps and commonplaces. Because, if it's true that when we talk about statistics, the first one that sees us in the head is the phrase of Mark Twain that attributed to the British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, who said that there are three types of lies– lies, lies and statistics–, surely it is much more accurate the feeling of one of the founders of the Department of Statistics of Harvard University, the mathematician Frederick Mosteller, who claimed that it is easier to lie without statistics and it is much more difficult..., no – I'm sorry –: it is easy to lie with statistics, but it is much harder to lie without statistics. Yesterday, in this farostol... and many days, from this farostol, we have clear examples, where catastrophic speeches are given based on generalizations, anecdotes, personal perceptions... And yesterday we saw, a little later, then, the consul Torrent and the deputy Montalà providing data to deny it; or, this morning, the same consul Giró, with his answers. We have already told you, therefore, that it is thanks to Idescat that we know that from 2014 to 2019, during the past years of the process, Catalonia believed over the joint media of the Spanish State and over the media of the European Union, as it does now. If we cannot personally know the circumstances of all the citizens of Catalonia..., but we can know our rate of poverty, our rate of unemployment: how poor are the poorest twenty per cent in relation to the richest twenty per cent in our society, our percentage of indefinite and temporary contracts, and how these measures affect differently between men, women, migrants, young people... Knowing all this serves us to, then, make decisions. I know it's been a long time, but it helps us put in value what we're doing here today. The approval of the draft law of the statistical plan serves us to consolidate and adapt the statistical system of Catalonia all following the establishment in Law 23/1998, a law that we also update and modify. From the point of view that statistics are essential for hearing and synthesizing our reality, but, like all the sciences, it is not immutable, like all the sciences, it advances..., therefore, it is necessary, this update. The role of the Idescat is very different today from that of the year 98. For example, today, at our butxaques, we are carrying technology far superior to the point of the year 98, when the first law of statistics in Catalonia was approved. For this reason, the law already provided for the approval of the statistical plan in a law in Parliament every four years, to go forward and update, so as to review these objectives of the statistical system. The plan continues to place Catalonia at the forefront of statistics and data processing, betting on new sources of information, the creation of new statistical products, the application of methodological innovations... Among other things, the impulse of experimental statistics and a firm bet for open data, which must be used to distribute information, empower citizens and facilitate data to promote the search and evaluation of public policies. Until today we have approved six statistical plans from Catalonia; however, until five of them have extended a couple of years more than four years established, such as the past. For this reason, the revision of Law 23/1998, which extends the term from four to six years, was included. All the time in this Parliament we tend to point out the problems of our country, because, in the end and in the end, it is what motivates us, it is what we want to solve, but it is also important to highlight the things that we do well. And we believe that the government's historic commitment to the broad range of different colors with science and statistics, whether via Idescat or CEO and the conjunction of the Catalonian statistical system, is a compromise that has given us good results and gives us tools to apply policies that transform people's lives. We saw it with the previous pandemic, when the Government of the Generality's bet on open data contrasted with Department PDFs, or we see it also when the CEO is ruled with a plural governing board and a direction that compromises with scientific rigour, while at CIS the prospect becomes a bit dubious. The physicist and statistical mathematician reminded me of Dr. Martorell this morning, physicist William Edwards Deming said that in God we trust him, the rest must bring data. Agnostics like me have no space for trust; we have data and love. So, in this concept of data... [[Widow's remorse.]] Love is always important in life, and those who do not believe in God have no room for trust. [[The timer laughs.]] Therefore, we can only reaffirm our commitment to a government that backs, analyzes and disseminates data to ensure a public, rigorous and constructive debate. Thank you, counselor, deputies and deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.187.0	Thank you very much. The debate is over, and since there are no items in totality, this initiative can continue its parliamentary process. [[Motion following the question to the Government on measures to minimize the consequences of the economic and social crises suffered by Catalans]] [[302-00143/13]] And let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government on measures to minimize the consequences of the economic and social crises suffered by Catalans, and which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. You have the word, to give you the presentation, Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.188.0	Thank you, President. From the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia we present this motion before the economic and social crisis that we described in the previous inquiry. We would ask you not to deny the reality: Catalonia suffers economically and socially, and it is increasingly difficult to live with dignity and arrive at the end of the month in our beloved land, in our Catalan region. Economically – to review the question a little bit without entering into figures – Mr. Counsellor, we are the champions of debt. The unemployment doesn't go down, it just suffers some light..., and we've been over ten_per_cent. Our GDP, since the separatist process began, has been decreasing to five_per_cent, and the closure of businesses does not cease. Socially, there is more and more misery, energy poverty rises and the waiting lists also rise in health – we have seen it this morning as well. And there are more difficulties in maintaining or acquiring decent housing with some stability. And, of course, birth has been falling apart for years. We also explain in the interpellation the causes of this social and economic crisis, which are not other than the excess of administrations, the excess of politicians, the non-existent industrial policy of successive governments – also of state governments – and the fiscal hell that is lived in Catalonia, and, of course, the political, ideological waste, brought also by the separatist process. That is why we are presenting this motion, which you have been able to analyse, with six axes of action: fiscal revolution, support for workers and businesses, housing plan, support for families, measures to combat supply – including that of hydrocarbons, even if some are entrepreneurs and have companies, on this bench, of hydrocarbons – and drastic reduction of public expenditure. First, to carry out a powerful tax reform in Catalonia with the aim that Catalans can cope with the rise of the CPI and inflation, which, of course, are punishing the Catalans' pocket. That's why we have to lower taxes. We would implement the following measures that we propose to the Government: drastic reduction of the IRPF tranches of the most humble incomes – all those ranging from fifty to one thousand to one thousand to one hundred; maximum bonus of the property taxes and inheritances and donations – not punish the savings of families, the help of parents to children or inheritances when there is a death, in discrimination with other autonomous communities – increased coverage and the amount of the subsidies of the water canon; reduction of the taxes of the ITP, which imposes the sale of housing, and of the AJD, which harms the legal business in the companies; and suppression of the taxes own of Catalonia, which – neither despair – are collected with them 600_million_de_euros. Secondly, to implement specific measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed enterprises, with a reduction in bureaucratic rates; direct support for self-employed persons and their quotas; incentives for enterprises and self-employed persons to offer indefinite contracts; and to prioritise the industrial sector in new-generation funds. Third, housing plan: liberalize the soil, except the protected one; build social housing with determination, with the help of private initiative; reduce the ITP; further improve the rental of the housing. Fourthly, help families with tax deductions in the IRPF, in child and health expenses; universal benefit per child of EUR 100 up to the age of eighteen; increase the deductions by birth, rewarding large families. Fifth, measures to combat the rise of supplies to families and businesses: to urge the Government of Spain to lower and eliminate taxes on hydrocarbons, which tax light; to boost green energy, as our colleague Toni López said, also considering, as Europe does, that nuclear energy is green energy; and direct support for families who cannot pay for the receipt of light and gas. And they will ask: "But if you propose to drastically lower taxes and raise aid, how are you going to do it? For, of course, sixth: reducing public spending radically, ideological public spending on feminism, on cheap ecology; spending separatism in the language, in the media – which we have commented on this morning – and non-decidable political spending, as we have seen in this debate: the Idescat, the Syndicate of Greuges, the Union of Accounts..., all those bodies that involve duplication with state bodies. Mr Giró, gentlemen of the government, do not be sectarians: support our measures. Because if they support these measures, they will not be supporting VOX, they will be supporting Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.189.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.190.0	Thank you, President. We have a VOX proposal that I have tried to analyse together, and it is complex, because I think that they have, possibly, attempted to touch on many themes that, in the end, have not been able to deal with the rigor that I suppose you would have done if you had had more time and, possibly, more chances of doing so, but we have not really seen it. And, a little bit, I'm going to do a little response like that, general, encompassing or framing some of the points you propose here. They're talking about tax reform. The tax reform you are proposing is not ours. I answer them: basically, it is not our liberal proposal for tax reform. You speak of drastic reduction, without specifying how or how much, of all those who are below 53,000_euros. We argue that this should be below thirty-thousands and that it should be compensated for the higher sections, while at the same time proposing that those sections should be simplified. We also introduced the deflator proposal which we have already explained on other occasions and which you do not comment on here. There are some points, such as those that you express to us, Mr Garriga, of eliminating or abolishing own taxes in Catalonia..., yes; in general, yes, in this we consider that we agree. We believe that it is often unnecessary to double the imposition of some taxes or the inability, often, of the Government to explain why some taxes are being applied to Catalans. They also talk about measures for SMEs and talk about measures for small businesses and self-employed people. Here I have to tell you that there are some texts that are, let us say, the same as those that we have adopted in this Parliament on the proposal of Citizens at some point in other legislatures, and we like them to review our proposals – I am not going to say that they copy them, but that they review them. Some of them, of course, have already been proposed by us, so we will vote in favour of them. I miss that defense you make of increasing public funding lines. You talk about increasing public funding based on the ICF, that defense sometimes you make of some institutions, or not, depending on... If you're interested, you talk about Catalan institutions, you present resources to the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, but you do like the ICF, in this case, to open lines of funding. Well, I think... I think it's incoherent, but we didn't just get too surprised, either, with this proposal. They are also talking about increasing or increasing investment in housing to €2,000_million in the next budget year. Sounds good to me. He said three thousand... The problem is how we're going to pay this, but, well, this, somehow..., we think you can get to pay..., I don't know if the two thousand; we had calculated a thousand, but if you propose two thousand, we vote for it. I don't have a problem. Already will or will be implemented by the Government of the Generalitat. At times, I think it's hard to explain how some of these things are going to be done. They speak, in another group of proposals, of social proposals. And here we have tabled an amendment, tabled by Mr Garriga, which has not told us anything. Sometimes we would like to work together and try to modify and improve some of the proposals, but you have said nothing. This is point 3.b, in which you say: « Implantation of a universal benefit per child of EUR 100/ month up to eighteen years of age exclusively for Spanish citizens. We have tabled an amendment to eliminate this last part, 'exclusive to Spanish citizens, because the first part, that of implementing the universal benefit, we have already tabled it and we have already approved it in this Parliament - it has not been carried out, but we have already tabled it. You take proposals from Citizens and sum up we believe that this kind of incidence goes against our liberal principles of equality among all those citizens who are part of the same society, which we do not understand. And finally, you talk about how we're gonna pay for all this. And we're told that you're going to pay it, that you're going to pay it with the reduction of superfluous spending in the administration. We're fine with that proposal from Citizens, but they're not doing it. We did it in Andalusia and we did it in Castile and León. You have a vice president in Castile and León who has not yet explained what functions he is going to perform, but who has indeed devoted himself to putting his finger and to using, let us say, the dedocracy that you sometimes speak of without any kind of rigour and without any kind of proof. It is therefore very good, sometimes, to make proposals; we make them, we implement them in governments. In Andalusia we have reduced fifty public bodies; how many, to see how many, if you are capable, you reduce where you rule. I hope not in Andalusia. But, of course, in Castile and León they have not done so nor do they seem to be going to do so at the moment. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.191.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.192.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Today, again, the VOX spokesman, Mr. Joan Garriga, has explained to us with all luxury of detail what it is, in his opinion, the fiscal hell that many times explain to us. And today must be Mark Twain's day; before Congressman Fernández quotes him, I'll be back now. In one of his speeches made there in 1890, Mark Twain said one of his famous phrases, which is that each place has its advantages: the cell for its climate and hell for its society or its company – the company that is there–, depending on the versions. Every time I hear them talking to you about tax hell I see this phrase of Mark Twain's memory; not in the acceptance of the company he gave, but because when you speak of "tax hell..., and as today you propose a download of all the taxes that have and to have, make more and more come my preference for the model of society than you call "hell," that is, the state of welfare, the state that redistributes wealth. The majority of Western countries, after World War II – precisely this week was commemorating its completion, and the defeat of fascisms and totalitarianisms – built the welfare state, the fruit of development and the application of social-democratic and democratic policies. Unfortunately, Spain remained at the margin of this process for the Franco dictatorship. This welfare state system is based on taxation, progressive taxation and redistribution in the form of the provision of universal services, that is, for everyone. That's what you say in tax hell. This system is what allowed the emergence and growth of middle classes and unprecedented quality of life levels for working classes. It is this system that you say in tax hell. In fact, the trend of the later thirty years to reduce taxes and benefits has been parallel to the middle classes. That is to say, the application of the measures that you preach has placed millions of people in hell or much about hell; but not what Mark Twain said, but more like Dante's, to Divine Comedy: precariousness, uncertainty and – by –; for which you are a native and claim to be an electoral node. Because you don't tell the truth. And do not say it, because it is simply impossible to blow and sip at the same time; it is not possible to lower taxes, to see who gives more, as they propose at point 1 of the motion and, for another band, to increase expenditure "from support, incentives, financing, housing, poor energy, in many of the other points of his motion. And if it is necessary to rationalize the public expenditure of the Generalitat. The one that you propose is not only not close to the one that we plant, but you again do not tell the truth. They have told us on countless occasions that they want to shut down Parliament, end autonomy, today with the Idescat. But, there, it turns out that you are boldly going to promise, promise, until you have the vice-presidency of the community of Castella and Lleó. And once you've done it, forget what you promised. This must be a "syringuite" since it has no competences assigned to the vice-presidency. That is to say, every time they make these administration reduction promises, they laugh at the citizens, as they just do the opposite when they have the occasion. They often tell us about delusions; of ideological delusions, they tell us – feminist delusions, environmentalists... But do you know what a real delusion is? The real delirium is to say or, rather, to think that public and free health is a scourge, as Mr.Ignacio Garriga said in an interview in the journal Redacción Médica. Delirio could also put it in the logo of his traveling bus, the bus of fear. With VOX, there would be no free public health in these neighborhoods. At least this would be true. But it's not about us. You just left the por. And who is looking for electoral results in the people's favor, is dedicated to infusing for. And who seeks electoral results in fear and despair, with proposals that generate for and desperation and precariousness, such as those that bring us to his youth, to our door, and to social hell. It's what he does, where he doesn't believe in the past and the present, the extreme right. We won't vote for your lady. We don't agree with what you're planting. We're not for the leash. From the PSC we are hoping, the hope of leaving the new generations a better future based on the application and construction of the welfare state. It is the model that is in the antipodes of what you defend, "the audacity of hope – which President Obama said – "in the restoration – he said –" of certain values; the values, for us, of social democracy and the democratic values, also, that boast the state of welfare, and not proposed to demolish it. Because no, public sanitation isn't bad, but it's a right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.193.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.194.0	Thank you, President. Well, before a national populism make-up speech, what we see in the background and what it reveals is the hardest neoliberalism we can find. When we look at a little in favour of its economic program, we see that it is an economic model that is mostly favourable to national or state capital, that is to say, to the owners and to the big owners and to the big capital. Three of the great contradictions of your economic program. First, the tax reform they promote consists of tax cuts that are particularly favourable to high-income taxpayers and businesses. Although they say the opposite, who they end up favoring is high returns and businesses. Accompanying these measures with promises to increase social aid or to maintain the welfare state is one of the most obvious contradictions. With such a pronounced fall from the public treasury tickets, due to the reductions in the announced taxes, it costs to see how it could continue to maintain public spending. In fact, a public expenditure that, from the great detail of 2010, has never just recovered – or from the austerity measures of that moment. This is the greatest sense of the economic program of the extreme right, analyzing it from an accounting point of view. It would be impossible to sustain the welfare state. But if we look at it from a class point of view, the proposed tax reform favors high returns and damages yields with lower returns, so it is because they would have increased their tax on establishing a higher type, if what they want is a unique type to the current type of tax, or because it would reduce the level of tax-free entrances on income. Therefore, under a path of favoring the popular classes, what they do is, in the background, harm them. Moreover, the deterioration of the welfare state to which it impacts most negatively is that of people with lower entrances, unable to access private services. So, in the background, under a page to give support to popular classes, to families, what they do is favor high yields. On the other hand, they are also committed to public spending restraints. And here they do not say it directly, but in a veiled way what they do is limitation of public expenditure directly with the prohibition of access to public aid and to the state of the welfare of the migrant population. I mean, book certain rights just a few. Leaving aside considerations about the violation of the principle of universality and the discriminatory and racist component of these types of measures, it is, in purely accounting terms, a slender of much less expense than you say. But it is that, moreover, it is lied, what they say, because the migrant population contributes with taxes and, therefore, contributes to this welfare state, often more than the upper classes to which you represent, often more than the Marquises to whom you represent. [[Greetings.]] And, finally, the third great contradiction. The apparently patriotic protectionism that they say they defend consists in defending national enterprises, favoring their production respect foreign importing enterprises. From the outset, it would already be more questionable, because the ownership of large companies can be difficult to determine or can be very diffuse if it comes into the hands of financial groups investors or large banking conglomerates, especially in the case of companies that contribute to the stock market. That protectionism is impossible. But for what he does to small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, who also say that they defend with measures, above all, based on discounts of contributions, these are limited and have no real protectionist effects. Their first competitors in many sectors, especially industry and services, are the same large national businesses that they also want to protect. It's impossible to protect everything. But what's more, for what it does to international competitiveness, here are more important technological aspects or the impossibility of competing with industries of countries with far lower wages and low labour rights. Therefore, their proclamations or "patriots of a strong, protective and protectionist state are left in a joke of bad taste when we analyze their economic project, a neoliberal acceleration of the proposals of the extreme center in which they meet, in the background, a Europe or a Spain, with its terms of millionaires, at the cost of millions of poor sotmesos and sotmesos in the exercise of power will rise from the markets. As one song says: "List, lie, lie, lie. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.195.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.196.0	Good afternoon. I read my motion, but the truth is that it's an insult to intelligence, to the band that seems to be cheating on the lonely, the editors of this motion. It is an insult to intelligence, because, of course, when it lays down certain taxes, the IRPF to which they cover less than fifty_ thousand euros, with some scale, or the inheritance tax or the property tax..., listen, you know that this will increase inequality, right? , which will increase social segregation, which will generate more problems. This won't solve anything. I assume you know that the impact of inflation on lower yields is a point more than the impact of higher-than-thirty-thousand-euro inflation. Do you know that between the returns of fourteen thousand and thirty thousand euros there is an impact point of inflation? And on top of that, they still want the thirty-thousand euros to benefit more, lowering them as well as the IRPF in the same measure as the under thirty-thousand euros? Home, this, the truth, is an insult to intelligence. But it's that, besides, you're cheating on the lonely. You're cheating on the solitaire because you're raising fewer public tickets. If we lower taxes, there will be fewer public tickets; if there are fewer public tickets, there is less public expenditure; if there is less public expenditure, there are fewer public services, there is more lack of protection, there is more segregation, there are more problems. Listen, that's cheating on the lonely guy. If you go public, you won't be able to make public policies. You... you know, you're extremely right and you're ultra-liberal. We already know that the right and the liberal have come together and that the extreme right and the ultra-liberals too; and that sometimes there are Drets that are also ultra-liberals, without arriving at the tip of the extreme. But it is to you that this ultraliberalism leads them, in the end, to make a false speech that what is feeding is an individualistic logic that ends up bringing, in the end, to submission, to segregation, to social disempowerment, because it leaves, in the end, the unprotected people, the winged people, the people without the public mechanisms that can protect their life in society, and, therefore, leave them under the interests of the most wealthy. We will therefore, of course, vote radically against this proposal. Why, moreover, when you speak and speak and speak insistently, and get the word this, fiscal hell– fiscal hell–, when you speak of fiscal hell you always see me in memory a poem, also, in this case, from a Terrassa work that was repressed during the years of Francoism, was tortured, he went into business, and the prison wrote a poem that made clear that of his fiscal hell, right? Say, "The smoke of the factory divides the cell into two parts: to the right of hell, to the left of hope. Listen, you, if you want to go to hell, vaginate there, but leave us here, that we can build hope with policies to serve the people, with public policies that have public inputs of a proportionate and balanced tax contribution to provide public resources sufficient to make public policies necessary for a fairer, more freer and equal society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.197.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.198.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that I see here a lot of contradiction with the term 'fiscal hell'. It seems you have doubts as to what it means, whether there really is fiscal hell. Let's give them some data to see if that makes it a little clearer. Look, fiscal hell is having eighteen own taxes, the autonomous community that has the most own taxes. Tax hell, for example, is paying more than the rest of Spain in the IRPF's autonomous segment. Fiscal hell is that the Government of the Generalitat continues to bleed us constantly with new taxes like that of CO2 emissions, which, by the way, punishes those who have less, or, for example, the new tax that they are negotiating with the commons of greenhouse gas emissions. Fiscal hell is also, for example, raising the tax on donations and estates at the worst time of the crisis. Well, that more than just fiscal hell seems to me to be fiscal immorality, because it was a real shame. Yes, in Catalonia we have a fiscal hell. Yes, in Catalonia the Government of the Generalitat bleeds on us and freezes us to taxes. Yes, in Catalonia, the government is bleeding us and frying us to taxes to continue squandering on its macro-structure of the process, no more or less. And that's why we want to lower taxes. And, besides, it's not something we say about mouthpieces, it's that we're doing it in those autonomous communities where the People's Party rules. And we have shown perfectly that we can not collect these own taxes as Catalonia does – the example is in the Community of Madrid –, that we can eliminate the tax on inheritances and donations or bonus it almost to the maximum, for example, as in Galicia also the People's Party has done. I wonder where all that money goes. We are very clear, I insist: it goes through the sink of the process. He's going to keep paying his advisors, his chiringuitos, his double structures, his embassies, and so on. The problem is that this is being financed by the Catalans, and the Catalans come a moment that they can no longer, Mr Giró. I will give you some data, because we have a very serious situation of structural poverty. Poverty and vulnerability are chronicled. And they are not my words, although of course I share them, they are words of the Insocat report prepared by the Federation of Catalan Social Action Entities, published in December 2021. Data that also confirms the INE, which tells us that one_of_each_four Catalans is poor. Also Foessa's latest report, published just a few months ago, coincides with this data. Thirty per cent of Catalans are at risk of social exclusion. Do you think those Catalans can cope with the tax asphyxiation imposed on them by the Government of the Generalitat? No, no, Above all, for example, housing exclusion is also greatly increasing within this poverty. And, in fact, there are several measures in this motion that go precisely to increase the public housing park. In fact, we, from the People's Party, have also put forward measures in this regard. Tomorrow we will present, in the proposals in the monographic plenary on youth, this situation too, because they have a great deal of difficulty in accessing this first home. And, in fact, almost 1_million people, 915,000 Catalans, are in precarious housing. And then we have to regret situations..., and I want to remember, for example, because the tragic event that we lived in Tetuan Square, with that family who lived in a bank office and who died completely from a fire; or, for example, another event, in this case happened in Montcada i Reixac, a couple who also died intoxicated while trying to warm up in a tent. All this goes through this situation of exclusion from housing. All this happens because you haven't done your homework. All this happens because you fill your mouth with housing issues, etc., but then you do absolutely nothing and the housing park continues as it is. And so, I think it's time to stop talking and start acting. It's time to stop squandering and dedicate the resources where they play. And, above all, it's time to be very realistic, to put cynicism aside, not to deny fiscal hell and not to say authentic..., yes, look, I'm not going to say them, « nonsense, as I said – will forgive me – the deputy of the Socialist Party, who has come here to give lessons on how to reduce public spending... Man, let's say you, who have a macrostructure mounted in the Government of Spain, with a record in finger advisors that costs us all the Spanish 140_million_euros, has trouble. You're in trouble, Congressman Riba, honestly. [[Widow's remorse.]] If you want to reduce public spending, it is very good that you want to do it with the Generalitat, but start also with the Government of Spain, which is costing us very dearly – which is costing us very dearly. We – I finish, I have eight seconds left; I focus on the motion – will vote for virtually all points, because it precisely plans to reduce taxes – IRPF, donations, documented legal acts –, also eliminate bureaucratic fees and, for example, measures as important as increasing this public housing park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.199.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.200.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, today is another motion on taxation that Junts for Catalonia does not share. In many parliaments of advanced countries, when a parliamentary group presents economic measures with presuppositional impact, such as those vaginal measures accompanied by an economic memory to know the monetary cost of each of them. And, finally, there are audience services that validate whether this estimated impact on the assumption is correct or not. Today is a whole series of tax cuts and deductions from all over the world, without quantifying our import. It is an exercise, we understand, of political populism. Even if it is taken into account that a large part of the Generality's expenditure on the 1st day of generation is already compromised: under wages, maintenance of infrastructure. The margin of manoeuvre of the Government of the Government has always been very narrow; in some departments it can go from eighty to ninety per cent of the annual total. Let's talk about what we could do if Catalonia was a normal country. According to the Spanish tax agency, the year 2021 was collected 44.200_million euros in Catalonia and the assumption of the Generality the year 2021 was only 27,500. There's a lot of stuff coming from here. A growing majority of Catalans see here a great margin of improvement in their public policies, if we have more and more access to the taxes we pay. Let's talk about finance. The generality has had access in the last few years restricted or vetoed the financial markets. In change, Spain in thirteen years has multiplied its public debt by four, from 350,000 to 1,45_billion euros from 2008 to 2021, from thirty-five percent of GDP to one hundred_twenty_percent of GDP. Neither did Philip II go in such a hurry in debt to the State. And according to the Bank of Spain, almost the ninety percent of all public debt issued by the State is left to the central government. Therefore, the fault cannot be of autonomy. And yet, Spain is at the forefront of economic recovery in Europe. Nor is it serious to talk about autonomous financing without talking about the LOFCA. There is a possibility that the extreme right and the extreme right will govern the Spanish State in its own elections. It would be interesting to know what they think of a financing system that has lapsed since 2009, which discriminates against all Catalans, voting for the party they vote in this chamber. Today, the Spanish government finances Catalonia as if we had the same population of the year 2009, almost half a million less Catalans. Four years of more progressive history and LOFCA government, three years ago, four years ago, we still have no proposal to... Maybe the Spanish right will make a reform; maybe it will be worse, we don't know. There is a lot of literature that says that LOFCA is discretionary, obsolete, opaque, does not effectively distribute tax resources. All folded, there are many variables in question, so there is a great discretion of the central government favoring regions. If the government is king, it favors the prayer regions; if the government is black, it favors the black regions. And Catalonia has been neither red nor black for many years. And it goes on to the reversal of income, which knows them in fiscal federalism: third with tax capacity in GDP per capita, fourteen in disposable income per capita adjusted to purchasing power, after the redistribution process made by the State. That doesn't happen to Germany. If Bavaria is third paying taxes, it must be third after redistribution. I, in fact, set a limit to inter-territorial solidarity between two and three per cent of GDP. Clearly, Bavaria has no independence tensions. If Bavaria passed from the third to the fourteenth place, perhaps there would be. A thought. Finn Poschmann, professor of the Canada of the Fraser Institute, said 20 years ago: "When the State transfers a lot of money between territories, the poor of rich regions finance the rich of poor regions. The reform of the CAP in Spain, which goes through Madrid and which Commissioner Antonio Cañete, ex-Minister of Agriculture, boasts of 'we have toured the Commissioner. I look at the beneficiaries: the great landowners of Andalusia. Therefore, therefore, escorted'm, on the 30th of September 2017, Commissioner Oettinger to Der Spiegel, after the Catalan elections of 2017, the most participation of all history, says: "German federalism is a possible solution for Catalonia. A constitution is a possible solution for Catalonia: collecting all taxes, managing airports, ports and trains, financial oversight powers over financial entities, courts of last resort. That's all Catalonia has today. In 2005, one hundred and twenty Members approved this. Maybe this is a solution. Some Spanish courts blew up. Perhaps today Spain would not enter the European Union, if outdated and politicized courts can veto democratic and popular will. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.201.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.202.0	Thank you, President. A small advance before the point, in the form of a denunciation, a record and a more absolute condemnation of the assassination of Palestinian journalist Shireen Abu Akleh, who was murdered, was assassinated by a shot in the head by a sniper in the army of Israeli occupation forces. I, therefore, condemn her. Beyond the apartheid that plagues the Palestinian people, so, also, again worry, right? , for the freedom of the world's press. And, in this sense, also all the support for the new co-responsibility [[applause]] That TV3 will debut in Jerusalem. And for what he does at the VOX point, so, much more to add than some companies and companies have already done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.203.0	So we've finished the debate in such an abrupt way that I'm now calling for a vote before the weather. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga? Oh, I'm sorry, you're right, that you to pronounce on the papers... I thought there wasn't, you're right. To pronounce on the exams, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.204.0	Thank you, President. For a moment I thought he had a crush on us, but I see he's been a waste of time. To Citizens, well, to say thank you for the amendment, but it is an essential issue for us. When public funds are limited and not very extensive and it costs us a lot of money to collect with taxes, and the state and administrations – in this case, the autonomous community too – are due to its administrators, we think it is essential, and there is a serious problem of birth in Spain, to allocate, those resources to foster birth, for Spaniards and not for foreigners. To the PSC. I would tell Riba that, well, I understand that it scares him that we want to reduce the costs of charges and chiringuitos because, of course, of course, you take part in them with the separatists and distribute them, and see if you're going to keep any of the salaries you have shared with them. VOX believes in public health and free of charge, of course, but the same for all Spaniards. In fact, if our proposals were implemented, we would save on the budgets of the Generalitat, Mr Giró, 9,700_million_of_euros that we spend on health – twenty-five_per_cent of the budget, because it would be assumed by the State. To CUP and Podemos, then, we understand perfectly that the pejoprogres it hurts that we want to reduce those lower incomes, because you do not defend the workers, you defend in your pockets. And finally, to Mr. Tremosa, then, the truth is that it tastes bad to me, because I don't know what's left of the old Convergence and Union. Of course, I think what's left... the majority vote for us. [[remorse of the voice]] because they desperately see their policies progress, their miscarriage of public budgets and their waste. And, of course, remind him that the fiscal deficit is not territorial. When we talk about these taxes they are of natural persons, which have nothing to do with people's domicile, yes with income. I remind you, Mr Tremosa, that those who enter the most, pay the most; those who enter the least, sometimes receive more. And that's a personal tax deficit, never territorial. Thank you very much. [[Some applause. Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.205.0	Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.206.0	Yes, thank you, President. To see if we could vote separately from point 4, letter b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.207.0	The letter b; 4.b. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.208.0	President, I understand that our requests for a separate vote have arrived, have they not?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.209.0	Yeah, in principle, yeah. We have petitions from all groups, only that now Mrs. Roldán has made an express petition that corrects what we already have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.210.0	Perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.211.0	So let's go vote for this young man. It must be borne in mind that the original text of the motion lacks points 2.e and 5.c. We think they're wrong, and those points aren't going to vote. So, let's start by voting points. 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.e, 1.f, 2.b, 4.a, 4.c and 6. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 14 votes in favour, 109 votes against, 6 abstentions and one person who does not vote. We now vote on points 1.g, point 2 with its encapsulation, point 2.a, 2.c, 2.d, 2.f, 3, 5.b and 5.d. The vote begins. These points have also not been approved, with 20 votes in favour and 110 votes against. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 11 votes in favour and 119 votes against. And finally, we vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved, with 14 votes in favour and 116 votes against. [[Asking the Government about the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrency]] [[300-00168/13]] Let us now turn to the agenda, the question to the Government about the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies, which has been presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.212.0	Well, so... [[Widow's remorse.]] Good afternoon. No, don't worry: those who don't follow, then I'll explain it to them and so on. [[Rialles.]] Well, with this question, we want to address the government in relation to a phenomenon, a phenomenon that has recently been reported to Catalonia, the phenomenon of cryptocurrency. A few weeks ago, Badalona was brought together a few thousand young people at a cryptocurrency convention, organized by an entity that was under suspicion – the organizers of this entity – of possible irregular activities, right? , and that some of its officials are in the courts for alleged pyramidal fraud in relation to the reversal in cryptodivisions, and accused, accused, say, this entity, of operating with technical sectors to capture young people. The news that has been published around this news of Badalona's convention speaks of stasis, promise of quick and easy dinner, pyramid model, sectarian behavior, addictions. And that's why we want to ask the government about the intelligence it has in relation to cryptocurrencies, and in this case to the Economic Advisor. Cryptocurrencies know they've entered the world of finance, huh? The technological advent makes it possible, through block chain technology – what they say in blockchain, right? – creating a decentralized universe where users can relate and trade without intermediaries, where all intervention by a power center, all control, all interference, a virtual world, in short, where the freedom of the individual and his or her ability to act in the community remain free at the margin of control and supervision. That's the... what they tell us, isn't it? This is where cryptocurrencies appear, 2008 roughly, in full enclave of the financial crisis, which is when bitcoin is needed, which is the first of these more than nine thousand cryptocurrencies that are in circulation today, and which is a response at those times, the year 2008, to the loss of trust in financial institutions, to the centralized model they have, right? It is a virtual currency that presents, this, as a formula to democratize access to finance services for which the remaining exclusions from banking services, and the technological potential allows the development of this new model to finance without intermediaries, decentralised and democratic. That's what they draw us. We are drawn from an individual freedom horizon, along with control and rules, which leaves no trace of economic or financial activity and which is not subject to any fiscal pressure from the public or central authorities. Taking advantage of the decentralised Internet, web 3 and blockchain technology is designed the illusion of a rich world created and accumulated for individual or community effort remains at the margin of any interference. That's what they tell us. But the functioning of this model is not alien to the system of social and economic relations dominant in our world, and dominated, moreover, by the hegemony of ultra-liberal ideology, which only exalts individualism and foragitrates the regulatory action of the State. So, what they tell us is decentralisation ends up with concentration and deregulation, and what was democratisation ends with opacity and lack of protection. That's what the data says. The 0.01_percent of the bitcoin owners control the twenty-i-set_per_percent of the coins in circulation; that is, a quarter of all bitcoins are held by two thousand megarics and serve mainly for speculation, evasion and money laundering. The absence of regulation of these virtual currencies, of these financial acts that are not supported in any material value, brings out old risks of stifles and addictions, and generates high volatility in these acts, speculative practices and investor protection. That's the reality. What we can call the "cryptoeconomy thanks to technological potentials grows, grows without rules or controls, and attracts every day more citizens to invest their stalls, and wide youth sectors to acquire cryptocurrency without knowledge of its meaning and function, with only one eagerness to speculate. It is not bought the value that these acts incorporate in themselves or their purchasing ability, but that what is bought is the expectation of a resale to a major value. In short, a pyramidal model that does not only project risks of staph, but, moreover, is inflating a financing cylinder of difficult quantifiable dimensions today. Already at these times the Greuges Synod is preparing a report on practices in the sectors and addictions, they stop the complaints that have come to him from various families in relation to the convention that was celebrated in Badalona. The Ombudsman has also raised alerts in advance of the loss from the stockholders of whom he has invested in virtual currencies or cryptocurrencies, which is a feature of the strong re-evaluations that have taken place. Social alerts on the lack of regulations on cryptocurrencies, intercanvial companies or placards, the absence of a system of control or public supervision or deposit guarantee have therefore jumped. There is no standard for cryptocurrencies or services related to them. They're financial, but they're not as regular as they are, despite being highly volatile and nurturing, and they can be creating, as we say, a financial bubble. But we are also talking about financial assets that do not have traceability, and therefore are a mechanism that attracts cybercrime, useful for illegal trading plataforms and for money laundering, which have, moreover, a negative impact on the environment, as it claims a high energy consumption for its production through mining barns. The European Union at these times is already considering the need to regulate its use and establish its supervision and controls, but in principle what is working is not to be seen before 2024, because we know that it is a lengthy process and process that is under the pressure of different lobbying as well as cryptocurrency to go trying to ensure that the regulation that can be made is not followed by regulation, but by maintaining the levels of regulation as we are living. But from the start it seems that they're already raising themselves and talking about the subject. The Government of the State is also working, as there are no other tasks or obligations, in transposing a European standard on cryptocaixers, which we urgently need. Cal, however, also that in Catalonia we do our dues and intervene decisively in the mark of our abilities. We may have few abilities, but those we have, we will have to use them. We must warn of risks and contribute to the demand for regulation as well as financing. As well as the government's commitment not to make use of these acts, in its economic or financial relations, but to be an actor more of this deregulated virtual market. It should be remembered that Spain is the fifth European country in operations in cryptocurrencies, and the fourth country in the world with the most cryptocaixers. The year 2021 moved 60,000_million euros, five percent of the total gross domestic product of the State, a market where there are large institutional investors. The Bank of Spain points out that a dozen_per_cent adults, most young people between divided and twenty-four years, have virtual coins. If we move these data to Catalonia, they may be talking about more than 800,000 people involved. We could discuss whether they're people or moneys, but they're 800,000 cryptocurrency money holders. And if it's not 800,000, it's close enough to the people that Catalonia may be involved in these moments. And they do it without central bank collection or public authority, without protection, without deposit guarantee funds or investment guarantee funds, and police alerts are already appearing that speak to us about a percent of illegal transactions, scams, thefts of digital moneys. The publicity of these types of investments is often misleading, and is generally insufficient to guarantee the knowledge needed to hear the functioning of these actions and the dangers. Little transparent and misleading campaigns that cause addictions between the youngest and most vulnerable people, and open the door to opaque practices. That is why what we want to do with this inquiry is to ask the Government, in this case through the Economic Advisor, to act in the framework of its abilities, but also not to be an actor more in this world of cryptocurrencies, to play for the charter of regulation, information and controls, and also of the requests for regulation where we can make them. Therefore, nothing more, and we hope that the Councillor will be able to respond to us with concrete proposals. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.213.0	Then, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.214.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Members and Members, Mr Gallego... Before anything else, let me tell you that in this late session of Parliament's plenary if it has been impossible to avoid hearing the song of "fiscal hell," the truth is that it has been comforting, life-giving and repairing to hear about spring, cygonies, poetesses, love, writers, births and God. So, very comforting, and we're good, huh? Returning to the point of the order of the day asked me by Mr Joan Carles Gallego, you asked me about the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies. From my point of view, what is the most important challenge they pose to us? I would say, Mr Gallego, that there is not one, but that there are four challenges. The first stems from the fact that these acts depend on a technology that guarantees, or at least so comes, the anonymity, the anonymity of those responsible in all transactions, which is what can be beneficial to criminal uses and confront scams. Here all we can do from the generality is lay what's in our hands to fight crime, and, in this sense, it's not so much a question of economy as of security. I understand, Mr Gallego, that the Squadron Mosses and the Department of the Interior are very sensitive to this problem. In fact, as you have also mentioned, two weeks ago the Mossos signed, with other public and private entities, a plan of action against the fraud financing, and I think we should continue in this line. The biggest problem I think is, I insist, that criminals take possession of anonymity and that, in addition, they normally do so from third countries outside the scope of the European Union. It's very hard to track them, and even more to process them. The second challenge is the tax fraud. This, as in the previous case, is not deprived of cryptocurrencies. It also happens with other acts, and also, as you know, with half-money. In Catalonia, we are affected by the fact that cryptocurrencies may be taxed on assets. And as I have already informed you, since the Catalonia Tax Agency, 338 million tax fraud frauds of the year 21 have emerged. From 2015 until today, this agency, the Tax Agency, has raised more than 1,500_million euros of tax fraud here in Catalonia. Therefore, we must fully trust that the inspectors and technicians of the Tax Agency of Catalonia will pursue the tax fraud derived from cryptocurrencies with the same competence as the tax fraud in general. The Central Inspection Office, as well as the territorial delegations of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, already have the information provided by the State Agency of the Tax Administration to identify possible fraud bosses. At these moments I can tell you that, as a result of the investigations carried out, there have been requests for information to physical persons on this subject. The third challenge – we talked about anonymity, we talked about tax fraud – cryptocurrency is its volatility. The evolution chart of the bitcoin price – I looked at this week's heading to prepare this inquiry – over the past year and a half it doesn't fit into the chart of other financing actions – so I'm thinking. It looks like a Russian mountain. It is estimated that at the earliest moment, which was in November, six months ago, the total investment in cryptocurrencies reached 2.5 billion rau of the world. At these times we're under two billions. In six_months, from 2.5 to 1.9. Let's put it in perspective, that's how things get along. The actions invested in the famous subprime mortgages that caused the hard financial crisis of 2008 with the fall of Lehman Brothers and everything that came after, at that time all those subprime mortgages were 1,3_bilions– 1,3 –; now we are around 2_bilions in cryptocurrencies. Remember that the logic of the reversal is very similar in one case and another. Highly complex financing actions, which very few people really understand, which assume far higher yields than any other reversal and which have become a Golden Age for all sorts of speculators. The Bank of Spain calculates that the investment in cryptocurrency was put into the year 21 up to 60,000_million euros in the Spanish State. The xifra equals a_sisena_part of the total value of the Spanish bag at this time. According to the Spanish central bank, the dotze_per_cent of adults have invested in cryptocurrencies. And, for me, one of the most troubling aspects: the age range most inclined to take risks with cryptocurrencies is to divide to twenty-five years – to divide to twenty-five years. The problem with these actions, as I said a while ago, is the extraordinary volatility and the fact that investors often do not know where they are investing; they do not understand that they are high-risk investments and that in certain operations it is possible to lose all capital. On the other hand, the possibility of entering this market, from imports that are really very small imports, has broadened the base of potential investors. This has been accompanied, if I may say so, by irresponsible, irresponsible actions on the part of some people, some with a high responsibility for their public projection in the face of their previous football activities, who have lent themselves to identifying their image with cryptoactile placards. That's why investing in cryptocurrency has come up with something that looks like operating in a financial gambling house. There are international studies that correlate the addiction to the game with online bets and propensity to invest in cryptoactius. So the thing is, what the generality can do is what we've already started to do. The Catalan Consumer Agency has begun to conduct information sessions on cryptocurrencies, and others were used to finance the population, especially the young people. The fourth repte, to go through, of cryptocurrencies is the environmental. It doesn't seem like it, but it's the environmental. Cryptocurrencies are believed, but they do not create a central bank, but they are believed by the names of miners. Create a cryptocurrency as a bitcoin, or as an ether is extraordinarily expensive. Keeping the bitcoin market active requires an energy consumption that is the same energy consumption that Norway has for a whole year. During the past year, the mining activity of the two most-extended cryptocurrencies, bitcoin and etherium, assumed an emission to the atmosphere of 78_million_tonnes of CO2, a quantity equivalent to emissions – attention – of all vehicles in Catalonia for four years and a half. In any case, in the European Union, also in Catalonia, cryptocurrency mining is a legal activity. Mr Gallego, we are talking about a technology and an activity that transcends the borders of the countries, which is not easy to legislate at local level nor is it easy to set doors to the camp. Surely, it is not easy having a state, imagine 'you without having it. That said, I can assure you that from the generality we will continue to do everything in our vicinity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.215.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.216.0	Well, thank the counselor's answer. I see that essentially we agree, in the characterization that we have a problem. And that if we have a problem, the best we can do is put it on the table and try to wrap ourselves around to find a solution. And I see that even in the drawing of the problem we are able to even question some of the public statements that had made great leaders of our country – some, ancient, and others that are still in the hands of some councillor, right? – when you wanted to create that famous Croatian with that Catalan cryptocurrency that, located in Latvia, you let us not know what. I see that we understand that this is not the way; that the way to try to create cryptocurrencies is not the way, because of the risks that an activity of these characteristics bears. Because we're not talking about dinner. It's said that it's digital dinner, virtual dinner, but we're not talking about dinner because it doesn't fulfill the three functions, say, that it has to hold the dinner. We were, we can't go to the super to buy, it's not a medium of change, it's not allowed to go to the super to buy with virtual coins, with a bitcoin; it's not an account unit. You can have a lot of bitcoins, but you end up referring them in euros or dollars, not bitcoins themselves; they don't serve as a unit of account. And the third function of the money, of value deposit, is possibly the only one they complete. It is not a means of change, it is not a unit of account, but, unfortunately, it can end up feeling a deposit of value and, therefore, simply to accumulate capital, and opaque capital. And, to the extent that it is used to accumulate capital, and opaque capital, is where these practices of tax fraud, tax evasion, cybercrime are allowed or are possible; these practices that will need to see how they are handled through media, in this police case, right? , and also the Tax Agency for which it would make inspections in relation to the assets, in relation to the rich one that can accumulate. But this is part of the problem. The other part of the problem – I think we have also coincided here with the counselor – has to do with these dangers of staves, for one song, and of addictions, for another, derived from the disconnection of the function of this technology that allows this and that allows us..., that we come to this idea of individual values without any kind of control or supervision. And easy money, because high volatility means I buy with the expectation of being able to sell again and earn money, I buy for five hundred because I know I'll get a thousand dollars in a few weeks. But we know it hasn't just worked that way; it generates scams and also generates addictions, as if it's drawn from a game practice, a betting practice. So, we have problems at different levels, don't we? And I think that here we agree, in some way, in the analysis of the problem and we agree in the importance of putting it in the center of the political debate too, so that we can make public policies that protect people and regulate the functioning of this instrument. That's why we're going to set it up, we're going to set up actions that the government can do. We want the government to be involved – and here the councilman already pointed out one way or another – in spreading the warnings of the risks involved in his emission and his use, huh? We want you to act before this act as if a game house product is processed. Therefore, we say, spread the warnings, prevent, monitor advertising related to cryptocurrencies, exercise the actions of cessation of misleading advertising provided for in the general advertising law. In the third place, we also suggest that we study the aspects related to the prevention of money laundering, the control of the change boxes of these cryptocurrency. To intervene, with the skills that we have from Catalonia and, if we do not arrive, to collaborate with other administrations, with the Government of the State, in its regulations and controls, and also to bring about social public awareness because also in the joint European Union is sensitizing and approaching quickly the regulation of these issues. A fourth question is to study the tax aspects, especially in taxes on assets, economic activities and environmental taxation, which, at present, these activities, these financed activities, these cryptocurrencies are exempt from VAT. We need to act here, too. And in any case, we must establish, we insist, the prohibition of the use of these cryptocurrencies by any public entity or Catalan administration. We believe that today it is a dangerous act; it has more dangers than virtualities, because it is neither decentralized nor democratic, concentrates wealth in few hands and generates opacity and lack of protection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.217.0	And, finally, in the replica tower, has the word the counselor turned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.218.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Gallego, in my previous answer, I believe that my position on cryptoactiums has become clear, in the sense that they are promoting a model of speculative economy that is stretched from the creation of wealth, jobs and the real economy, and that can generate fraud, crime and addictions. But I wouldn't want you to be alone with this impression. If I may, I'll take advantage of this second word to go a little further than cryptocurrency and refer to the technology that cryptocurrency is possible for. On your first intervention you mentioned it: I refer to the blockchain protocol. The blockchain protocol, which, as everyone knows, allows documenting all kinds of transactions and digital contracts in a secure and decentralized way, is a highly complex technology, but all experts agree on one thing: it will be extraordinarily disruptive. I want to read literally what the European Commission says about the blockchain. The quote is a long skin, but I think it's worth reading in full: "Blockchain," says the European Commission, "is one of the emerging technologies that is shaping Europe's future. Blockchain technology can provide more effective interactions between citizens, businesses and public administration. It can strengthen confidence, at the same time, that each party retains control of its own data. This technology – says the European Commission – "will be decisive in building a citizen-centred, sustainable, transparent and inclusive European digital society. For this to happen, it will be crucial to invest in the next technological frontier represented by the blockchain. And here ends the citation of the European Commission. The blockchain is considered one of the most important emerging technologies in Europe, together with artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, quantum computing and 5G telecommunications. The transformative potential of the blockchain lies in the realms of salvation, of the chains of administration, of mobility and of public administration, not only of finance. Therefore, Mr Gallego, I want to insist that we must make it clear that we are talking about a technology that will transform the lives of the citizens, and it is better that what has also passed with the internet will pass, that technology will advance three steps forward and a step back; but it will advance, irremistibly advance. You, Mr. Gallego, who know that you are fond of reading and reflection, may know a phrase of the German philosopher who died in Portbou the year 40, Walter Benjamin. Benjamin wrote a phrase that I used more than once because I especially like it, and he says that there has never been a single episode of progress that has not been accompanied, to some extent, by an episode of barbarism. Progress the barbershop. Digital technologies certainly do not fall within the scope of this observation. As I've tried to explain, we've had a lot of challenges, some of them for humanity, but we also have unsuspected opportunities. It is in our hand – and I refer to us as Europeans, but also to Catalans – to overcome the challenges and to make these opportunities feel like they are for the progress and for the better of the well-being of the citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.219.0	Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about the attention to victims of the crime, which was presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Question to the Government about attention to victims of crime]] [[300-00163/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.220.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, councillors, councillors, well, let's bring an inquiry to the plenary today on justice. Obviously, justice – no matter what I remember, and much less to you, counsel – is one of the pillars of the right state, it is a foundational pillar of the right state. But I think we must also highlight the social function. When we talk about the social state of law, justice has a social dimension that is often ignored and that we have to put into value, as I understand that you, in many of your interventions, both here and in committee, have done. Unfortunately, Catalonia does not have full powers in the field of justice – better things would be done if we could have full powers in this area – but we do have competences. We have and develop, despite the lack of resources, as the Economic Adviser knows perfectly, and all Members know perfectly, despite this lack of resources, we manage very well the themes of infrastructure, buildings, staff, technology. We have made a great effort, we have made a great effort to have a justice of the 21st century in technological terms, but I believe and our parliamentary group believe that what will really lead us to have a justice of quality, a justice of a kind, a justice of the 21st century, is to treat as excellent as possible the people, all the people who use the justice system, who are not only the justiciable; mainly, they are the justiciable, but they are also some who forget very often: the victims of crime. The scene of crime victims has changed a lot in the last 20 years. Until recently, to my university discipline, the procedural right, we always said that the victim was the great oblivion. From the year 2004, with the Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection measures in domestic violence, the focus began to be on the victim. And especially, from Law 4/2015, the state of the victim of the crime, we have put the focus. It is worth saying that Catalonia already had the offices of attention to the victims of the crime since the year 96. The one that happens, that then we found ourselves with a chickpea. Among the competitions that Catalonia already had, of a band, that demand from us the various jurisdictional organs of technical and expert gathering on many occasions or of valorization, more the obligations that have imposed on us by the various state laws, at this time trying to settle in the world of victims is a soup of letters, eh? We have the Crime Victims Assistance Office; we have criminal technical advisory teams, from which all forensic evaluation units depend; we have the Crime Victims Guidance and Telematic Information Service, and we have crime victims monitoring teams. And besides, I'm not saying the acronyms for all this, because at this late hour, I don't think anyone would take it. And, more than that, the Government of Catalonia, the Department of Justice, has for some time now set aside a program of restorative justice, pioneering the Spanish State, which I believe is worthy of praise and congratulations. The motive of this inquiry is to put, on the part of our group, the focus of the debate on the protection of victims, and ask for some things. First, what do we try, among the limited possibilities that we have, to put a little order in this garb of letters that we have, because the truth is that there are so many things..., without talking about municipal initiatives of many gatherings, that they also have initiatives, of lawyers' colleges or private entities, such as UAVAT, the union of attention to victims of terrorist acts, eh? I think it would be good to make an effort, a point of entry, a single point, a place where the victim can head, because just try to draw the clear water, if it comes into any internet page to see what is the concrete service that the attention can provide, it's complicated force. But, in addition, we would like to make a cry, which, although it is a comprehensive and generalized treatment, there are certain areas that, in our view – this is what the Junts electoral programme for Catalonia included – would require special attention. Special attention is paid to cases of male-to-male violence, gender-based violence; this is done by the Generalitat. Truly, there is a great awareness about matter. And, despite this, as we unfortunately have to remember at the beginning of a lot, it is a phenomenon that does not stop growing up and against which we have to fight firmly, but there are other things that I think would require special treatment. One, we haven't talked about sexual violence before. Cases of sexual assault are dramatic. I understand that it is working; here is a matter where one has to go from the hand of salvation, obviously, because normally the victims come, at first, to the health centres, but it is obvious that it is a matter to which we must pay special attention. Also, as it is, in all the fears that affect minors. But I wanted to put it on table two too, which I don't think we're paying enough attention to. One is the case of victims of hate crimes. Every time there are more; that it is not the ones who are condemned, because we already know that, depending on whose band he hated, the courts end up considering it or not. But it's obvious that every day there are more hate phenomena. We live in a very polarized society and I think we should pay special attention to matter. And another, that we certainly don't have the full powers, but that I think we should do more, it's a matter that professionally touched my life and it's dramatic, it's the issue of terrorism, huh? , victims of terrorism. And victims of terrorism are not just the dead and the wounded directly, but all those who have someone..., the whole society is the victim of terrorism, but especially those who are closer to physical victims or those who have just suffered the emotional impact of witnessing an age of terrorism, that's no big deal. Even the UAVAT, which he quoted earlier, was looking for victims of the 17-A storms. And I think that Catalonia would have to be pioneers in the matter and create some specialized office, some unit, among this garb of letters, specialized in the attention to victims of terrorist acts, that you should never act. And lastly, and finally, as things stand, I don't know if we're going to create a specialized unit for the victims of cyber espionage. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.221.0	Thank you very much. So, then, there's the word "Justicia's Counselor," Mrs. Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.222.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr Alonso-Cuevillas, for this inquiry. Indeed, there is a field to run, especially in this last aspect of the victims of espionage. I think we'll have to thank each other, as long as we're alone in the answer and protection. But, said that, to recognize him the fact of the inquiry, because the will of the Department of Justice, as I have heard many times, and that you also agree, is the fact of placing the attention at the center to the victims of the crime. Justice will be social as people, and the people destined for our services are the ones where we have to make the most of our resources to be able to serve them as they deserve. We always say that when a person resorts to justice, he does not do so because, sadly, he has access to a million-dollar inheritance, but he often does so because he has a bad step, or is a victim of a crime or is a victim of a labour, family, economic, social conflict, etcetera. And when he's a victim of a crime, we have to keep the tools to the service of this person, because it's when he is and when he feels more vulnerable. For this reason, the offices of assistance to the victim of the crime or, for another gang, the technical criminal counseling teams must aim to give the best answers. For what he does to the crime victim's offices, they have a leading role in managing information, managing guarantees, monitoring when a person feels a victim of a crime and has not filed a complaint. And, on the other hand, we have criminal technical advice teams, which do what they do is try to help the courts with the most technically accurate decisions possible so that they can dictate the best resolution. Therefore, it is very important to have some technical criminal counseling teams that make the best reports, the best follow-up, identify the best pathologies that the victim can present because the judge can make the best decision, the most informed possible for the benefit of the sentence. And all that, avoiding double victimization or triple victimization of the victim. In Catalonia, moreover, you have explained very well, from this soup of letters that you said, we have an information and telematics service to the victim of the crime and a support service to victims of the crime that we need to give to know more. Most of the people are very disoriented. It is necessary to make a pocket of better information and better redirection of people to try to have a single window of entry, because all these services are provided by teams of professionals specialized in a wide variety of fields: psychology, criminology, social education, social work... And, in addition, we have it distributed throughout the territory of Catalonia. And from the side of victims of gender-based violence, which takes a lot of care of the department as comprehensive policies to give them response, the department's compromise, you know, and as it can't be otherwise – and the whole government – it's fighting against gender-based violence. It is not – it is not – from the Institute of Legal and Forensic Medicine – to whom I want to pay tribute, because it is an organism, it is a pioneer institute, with excellent professional, to whom I want to gratify the work – they are already diagnosing and accounting for the victims of feminicides, vicarious violence, intrafamily violence, and not having to depend on the lists sent to them by the General Council of the Judiciary, which are often misguided, because they do not count all victims, as we find in the cases of the least victims of the violence that the mother does against minors to harm the father. Because this has also happened, and that our Catalonian Civil Code recently recognizes this man. And in this sense, in order to be able to have a stronger follow-up to victims of rape crimes and putting in value that it is certain that every time women denounce more, with more insistence, that it is very important to pursue the crime, as well as that this complaint was accompanied by a good judicial response. Therefore, give the best judgements to make the best sensations. Go so far as to ensure that, from the department, we respond to all and each of the petitions of the jutjats on cases of general rape that come to us – all, absolutely all – whether they require a partial report or a comprehensive report on the rape, there is already a specific psychological report of the victim or a comprehensive report of the victim's family background – all of them. These units, these services that we have in the service of the courts, make these better diagnoses, and they are elements that we have in Catalonia from time to time: the technical criminal counseling teams, the technical family counseling teams and the Institute of Forensics and Forensics. To all this, he entered, as you very well said, in 2004, they pulled out of the Spanish law against gender violence, an element that spoke of a unit of comprehensive forensic value that would distort a map that we already have in Catalonia very well worked, of an integral team of assistance to the technical criminal advice. That's what we're looking at. And that happens when the competitions try to laminate. From Catalonia, with effort, because the objective is the comprehensive forensic evaluation, we are integrating, in the best possible way, these teams so that there is the maximum coordination; above all thinking that the victim only has to do an exploration on behalf of a multidisciplinary team, formed for criminal technical advice teams, family technical advice teams, for the Imelec, and that this gives an integral report to the courts. Despite this, and like we had some pre-existing offices in Catalonia, the entire forensic evaluation teams, the judges, are asking a few questions. Therefore, they ask for partial advice of one thing, partial diagnosis of another, sometimes comprehensive reports. So, what do we have to do? That they are more coordinated and better known on the part of the courts of these services, which is a matter of time, because they are within the territory. So, we've done a protocol, which was given to meet the judicial offices in 2019, but unfortunately, because of the pandemic, we couldn't get a thorough follow-up of how it worked. In any case, we'll make it a_second attempt. We would like to call for the complicity of the Board of Governors of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in order to ensure that this protocol of action is implemented, that it informs the courts of all remedies, that it knows the court where it can ask and what it can ask to assist in the best way the sentence, and therefore an informed decision, as the victim of the crime itself. And we will do this from now on, with this collaboration and this complicity of the courts, and, moreover, we also need, which we are addressing from the department, a strategic plan of attention to the victim of the crime in general, as you said. All victims of crime must be treated; moreover, we must clearly respect and place them at the disposal of all the rights that assist them, and this must be a priority; we must ensure that they are recognized, victims, and protected from secondary victimization and institutional victimization; facilitate access to support services that depend on the department, and also prioritise access to restorative justice for all victims who seek it. It is a top priority of the department to support restorative justice. And this strategic plan, which we have already begun to develop and which we hope to have in place at the end of this year, consists of a part of an analysis of the current situation, with the hope of recognizing fortitudes and identifying aspects that need to be improved, in order to fully achieve the great objectives that have been stated, and consists of a part of projective, which sets the time at which we want to place the victim's care services in the next few years. We want to hold and exercise our skills without interference. We have a good system, a robust system, and we don't get tired, from the department, of claiming it's a social protection system. And that's why restorative justice also needs an important support. And, in this sense, the Department of Justice of the Government of Catalonia is working tirelessly, because the victims of crime need to realize that the more they need the Government at their side. Therefore, thanks for the inquiry, because it gave us the opportunity to talk about a very sensitive topic. And taking advantage of the fact that we have the Economics Advisor in the room, we're not tired of explaining that ours is also a social department, because we pay this attention when the most people need it. And, therefore, we know that resources are scarce, but it has the commitment, counselor, that we manage them in the best possible way and with the greatest possible efficiency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-11-3002.223.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
