ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action]] [[302-00145/13]] And we did so on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. And it has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.2.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Look, I give you two very clear examples of what we're reporting. You, gentlemen of the Government, are responsible for the manufacture in December 2021 of Nissan's last vehicle on the plant of the Free Zone, closing forty years of production history in Barcelona and leaving a thousand_seven hundred direct workers on the street. You are responsible for the fact that Repsol's CEO has warned that the new CO2 tax can encourage future relocations, putting more than 25 thousand direct, indirect and induced jobs at risk. And, well, since you don't listen to VOX, you may listen to the Banco de España, which pointed out, a few days ago, something that we have been saying for months: the main victims of ecological transition policies are the socio-economically most vulnerable families, the people between thirty-five and forty-five years, rural populations, those with a low educational level, large families and small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, their climate policies are anti-pyme, anti-family, vulnerable anti-persons, anti-campus and anti-young people. In short, anti-prosperity and anti-welfare. We will repeat it a thousand times if necessary: you have put us in a transition, yes, but straight into the abyss of ruin and misery. Catalans need a transition, yes, but a transition that involves seeing them, all of you, pack up and go home. In the face of this serious situation, we have eleven proposals that are key to starting to reverse the damage caused by years of ideological management and green waste. We propose to eliminate all taxes in Catalonia on an environmental basis; to reduce climate regulation and regulation, which hinder the normal business and industrial development of our region; to put an end to those provisions in strategic plans and existing legislation that destroy the prospects for the future of the primary sector; we want them to use all the money destined for green chiringuitos with DNA of the 2030 agenda, the agenda of ruin, to combat energy poverty and the social needs of families and companies in Catalonia [[some applause]] ; promote nuclear energy and support the only project that will succeed in lowering the electricity bill of our homes: the energy sovereignty project we propose from VOX ; promote the food sovereignty of Spain, protecting our primary sector and meeting their demands. You are constantly talking about scientific criteria, but it does not seem to follow the wake of the latest academic news. A few months ago, a study published in Nature magazine indicated that the absorption of CO2 by natural factors such as forests has grown at the pace of anthropogenic emissions. Just one of the proposals we are presenting here urges the Government to encourage the reforestation and care of our basins with the aim of enhancing the absorption of CO2 naturally. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with this motion we have shown that there is an alternative to your climate paradigm, a conservationist alternative that perfectly balances the material well-being of people and the care of our natural environment. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.3.0	Then, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.4.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the VOX Parliamentary Group brings to plenary a motion with its populist stamp printed on each and every one of its sections, a new motion that leads to the march of VOX and that does not bring any appreciable novelty. The motion, whose end we all know, has eleven points and has received an amendment of addition by Ciutadans, as usual without luck. It seems that the People's Party has had some luck and has been able to introduce some amendment. But for our part it is impossible to try to modify, mattize or simply improve a motion of VOX, convinced, as they are, of being in possession of the truth. An Adamist stance that aims to recover perhaps the time lost on the sofa, with remote control, when in Catalonia the worst crisis of the Spanish nation was experienced after the recovery of democracy. In September and October 2017, in the midst of a separatist coup, they did not let themselves be seen or heard at all. I guess that's the main reason they want to make as much noise as possible every time they get a chance. Look, I said it. We have tabled an amendment to the issue of a new preliminary point with the only claim to mark sufficient distance with its simplistic and populist approaches, to deny the evidence, following the steps of any of its patriarchs – to set an example, for example, Mr Donald Trump. I shall begin by assessing the motion that has been put to us for debate and vote, those eleven unremovable points, which do not admit, but do not have the slightest chance of nuance, modification or improvement. The first point, in the usual line, asks for the moon. It claims that the Government of the Generalitat abolishes all its own taxes on an environmental basis under the heading of amending as many laws and decrees as are necessary in order to put an end to the taxation that is adjectived as green. We very much agree that it would be desirable for the autonomous government to drastically reduce the tax burden we bear on the citizens of Catalonia. But some of the taxes they seek to protect in the environment need not be abolished. Point 2 wants the government – understood by the Generalitat – to put in place the necessary measures to drastically reduce the environmental regulation and regulation that, according to VOX, is unnecessary and that has a negative impact on the business and industrial fabric of Catalonia. Again, it does not specify what specific measures would be implemented and when using adverbs they are drastically meaning, in fact, "completely out of the way with the regulatory regulation that seeks to protect the environment. In its worldview, the environment enjoys very good health and nothing and nobody has the least ability to put it at risk. Point 3, in the usual catastrophic and maximalist line..., it is true that the primary sector is abused by public administrations on too many occasions. It should never be the case, but the specific point exposes a situation that does not agree with the reality of things. Point 4 calls for the elimination of entities, agencies and climate spending, which is measured at the same level with the pattern of the ideological vision of climate change promoted by the 2030 Agenda. Come on, mere ideological attack, simple ideological vision to counter that to another ideological vision. Our liberal vision prevents us from fully sharing both ideological visions, which are denounced and raised. Point 5 is a toast to the sun in the usual VOX line. It sets the goal of energy sovereignty in Spain. With a hyperdependent energy mix from third countries, this proposal today sounds like a joke. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we advocate the maintenance of nuclear energy at least until they turn sixty years after it is put into operation and provided that it is fully replaced by 100-per-cent renewable energy within that time frame. We therefore do not share VOX's position in the terms that make it. The sixth point also affects the autoarchic pretension that characterizes both VOX. Anything that comes from abroad, doesn't matter if it comes from near or far, whether it comes from within the European Union or from outside, is bad by definition. Nor do we agree with their approaches. Point 7, read without any kind of ideological filter, until we vote in favour; the same happens to 8 and 9. The goal of food sovereignty is simply utopian. We don't share it, therefore. And point 11, the promotion of renewable energy, because we will also support it, even if it refers to utopian energy sovereignty. Our amendment merely sought to promote environmental sustainability and to call for respect for the framework of the common agricultural policy and other policies of the European Union to which we fortunately belong, despite the populisms of any signs which regret and combat it, as is often the case with VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.5.0	On behalf of Grup Mixt, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, I will start by referring to the two amendments we have tabled to points 10 and 11. In the first of these, urging the Government of Spain to cease with the contemptible campaigns of the primary sector that have occurred in recent times. And, in point 11, add green hydrogen and biomass to renewable energies to be promoted. Both amendments have been accepted by the VOX Group and we are therefore grateful that this has been the case. With regard to the rest of the motion, there are some points that we share and others that we cannot support. We share that environmental care must be compatible with economic growth, that regulation is excessive, that tax burdens too, that there has been a stigmatisation of the primary sector. But then we find other points that, in reality, live from the same ideological prejudices that sometimes exist on one side, but exactly in the opposite direction. And we must remind them that heaven has no borders and that, consequently, there are environmental policies that, since there are no borders in heaven, we have to do them throughout the international community. And then you can discuss whether some policies or others are overly interventionist or can be modulated. But the idea that these kinds of policies can only be done by the corresponding nation states is, in the end, a real nonsense. And when that kind of argument gets on the table, we can't share it. We do share the issue of nuclear energy and I have explained it here several times. France has fifty and eight nuclear power plants and has already announced the construction of fourteen more reactors. That is, we share risks with them, so it said that the sky has no borders, and instead the benefits are only taken away by them and only by them have energy sovereignty. I therefore believe that Spain's policy on this issue is a profound error, and we will therefore also support it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.7.0	Thank you very much. So after the defense of the papers presented, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Sílvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.8.0	Good morning. Counsel, deputies, deputies... thank you, president. « That it gets a little warmed up the planet will avoid cold deaths. " Who decreed that the optimum temperature for mankind was that of 1850? "I do not know the scientific issues and I must admit that I am not in that debate. This one was fine, at least recognize it. "Climate change is a patulea or the new green religion. These are some statements made by VOX representatives, as you can imagine. And with this pro-negationist, anti-system, removed from any scientific evidence, I figured I wouldn't share any of the points of agreement that you would propose in your young man. Nevertheless, I listened in his inquiry, I read the eleven points of agreement that they were going to the next motion, and I have to say that it is not only we are in antagonistic positions – that we are there – that the document is lacking the least rigour, absent absolutely from concrete proposals, is inconsistent and contradictory. And I'm saying that you set out to make ideological pamphlets, which is what this document is, in place of useful documents for the citizenry that you say you defend, you could already give them some evidence, some argument or some proposal. Even so, they could watch a little bit of style and writing. And I give you an example point number 6, as shown not only by this lack of style, but by the incoherence that distils the whole movement: "To put the human being in the center and main protagonist of climate policies; that apart, Mr Lopez, from being a topic, an idea made, easy, with pretensions, can you tell me why you put the human being in the center of something that you deny from the root? I'm going to ask you to explain what you're talking about, what you're proposing at paragraph 6, or to give me some examples. You say you are concerned about the negative impact of environmental legislation on industry. Do you know what has a negative impact on the uptake of industrial investments? One of the reasons is the endorsing of the deployment of renewable energies in Catalonia. Why don't they make useful proposals to the industrial fabric in this sense with the young man? Why do they not promote or propose to adopt the criteria of the European Commission that are included in the Repower Europe energy transition acceleration plan? Simplify procedures, accelerate the administrative procedures of renewables to the emperor of Royal Decree Law 6/2022 of the Government of Spain, or provide sufficient resources for the territorial teams to accelerate the resolution of dispatches. Mirin, the Collège d'Enginyers, entities promoting renewables, employers, trade unions, consider it almost impossible that Catalonia is able to adjust 2030 on the path of decarbonization. And you, before this drama, both in terms of climate action and economic opportunities for Catalonia and the creation of jobs, propose to suppress all resources for climate action. Are all these economic, social actors, whom I have just named, also followers of this green religion? Why do they not propose to push the law of just energy transition? Or why do they not propose to implement the territorial renewables plan? In change, you propose just the opposite: to prevent you from naming over-regulations of public power. And they also show a clear lack of rigour in the capacity and absorption mechanisms of carbon dioxide. They propose reforestation as the single natural carbon dioxide absorption mechanism. How many trees, Mr. Lopez? What kind of species? Have you made any impression that you bring them to any concrete proposal in this sense? I suggest you read a document that the ministry has prepared for the year 2019, a document that allows the calculation of removals in reforestation projects. What carbon dioxide ton values do you think you can eliminate with your proposal? Or is it that this goes with an affirmation like those of the beginning, "we plant some trees and this already..., the dioxide already disappears, Mr López? Nor do we share the defense of maintaining nuclear power stations, either in Catalonia or in the rest of Spain. We have a shutdown commitment from the power stations to all of Spain, and the one that affects Catalonia we have a lockdown forecast on 2029-2033 and the last, Vandellòs II, on 2035. Can you explain to the citizen what consequences you could have and what risks you take with your proposal to extend the lives of nuclear power stations? Miri, Catalunya and Spain have the opportunity to become new potentials for generating renewable energy, green hydrogen or biomass. We have the necessary elements, we have the knowledge, we have the companies, we have the technology. You should look at these opportunities with greater rigour, with seriousness and, above all, with proposals. This young man has no use, he does not help the citizenry, nor the working class, nor the entrepreneurs nor the autonomies. But don't look for it either. You have no vocation to serve, only a propagandistic machine, as useless as dangerous, capable of generating ideological pamphlets at each plenary, which allows you, yes, to generate the viral video of the month. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.9.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning. Well, when we saw this young man we didn't know if it was worth answering or not, because it's obvious, so when the VOX Group hears about ecology they exploit the head and make motions like this, that they don't have any kind of legitimacy, scientific at least, just simply a populist pamphlet of the extreme right, that obviously you have to be funded by the great ecocidal corporations and by the companies and the brandies, their friends, right? , that they pay them to make these speeches that clearly tempt against the majority of the population, against the working class. They tell us that they want to carry the green tax of Catalonia. In fact, they want to carry everything. They want, therefore, to remove all the regulations, the environmental regulations that we have here in Catalonia for the industrial fabric... That is to say, they talk to us about proposals that the ones that really benefit are the usual ones, the ones that you defend, the ones that finance your party and its totalitarian, faxist and ecocidal ideology. We can't give support to any of these points, because you're based only on absurd topics that you've been constantly repeating, and you think you're repeating them, so someone will integrate them into your speech. But it's not like that. They always talk about "green waste," "ecojetas, the ruin agenda, the green religion, etcetera, and similar nonsense, don't they? When all the scientists of the world, apolitical scientists– it is to say, scientists who are neither of the extreme right nor of the extreme left, nor of the center, but are simply scientific–, they say that there is a reality, and that this reality is that we are carrying the planet through the gases that we are emitting, basically, therefore, the global north and with the destroys that we make ourselves to the global south. And that's why it bothers them so much the ruin agenda, that you say, the 2030 agenda, that for us, not much less, it's better, because it's very little precise, very little concrete, it should mark some goals that can be worked out and that, moreover, are the countries that are obliged to re-account. It's not like that either. But, of course, these objectives bother you, because they speak of the poverty. You want the richest to be even richer and the poor, so we just keep feeling poor and there's always more. You cannot accept the zero family, the salvation and the welfare of everyone, the quality education, the gender equality – well, obviously, this, you, the gender equality, you don't know what it is –, the energy that is amenable and non-polluting. Obviously, yes, you bet on nuclear, because all scientists in the world defend their position. In fact, I haven't heard a single one; perhaps you are, but I haven't heard a single scientist who defends that nuclear power is, as you say, a green, net, continuous, safe and necessary energy. That's what the extreme right here says, the extreme European right and a few more countries are supporting it, isn't it? When what's generally done is bet to end this kind of energy and as soon as possible for as long as it's left for thousands of years to the generations that will come after us. But you don't, you want more. Unbelievable. They have to pay for it, too. All these nuclear lobbyists have to pay for it, they have to finance their campaigns and their misdemeanours. Also, so, well, they talk about initiatives promoted by foreign institutions. I don't know if they're talking about the Spanish State. In any case, we would share it, if that is the case, that policies must be made from our own country, from Catalonia, and not from foreign institutions such as the Spanish State. Then they talk about promoting reforestation. They don't have a clue. I mean, they really think that with four trees the CO2 will disappear. And that's not it. All scientists tell us that, precisely, Catalonia's forests have long since stopped absorbing the same CO2 as some years ago, because in the woods the situation changed and each time they absorbed less CO2. Therefore, it is not a feasible solution. And now they go into contradictions defending the Jew, saying we have to put people at the center of environmental policies, when you don't want environmental policies, but what you want is to benefit the usual ones and to charge yourself, our country and yours. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.11.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, welcome. Against the effects of climate change in our country and in our societies, you only offer three answers: that cunnyadism replaces scientific reason. Today, for example, an article has been published in Nature magazine that says that, in reality, forests are already absorbing all the growth of the emissions we have experienced on this planet. And from the rise in temperatures that we are living in this country a year ago, and that we can see with the heat wave that there was last week, in the middle of the cold season, what do we have to say? I would recommend, first, that you reread the article and, then, that you read the conclusions that are being drawn from this article. That there was a part of the CO2 that we emit from cremating fossil fuels, that they absorb it in March, the oceans and the woods, we knew before the article of Nature magazine. And the thing about it is not that it absorbs all the CO2 that we emit, it's usually established that it's about fifty percent that it absorbs, and about fifty percent that ends up in the atmosphere. And what this study does is basically review the efficiency during the sixties, seventies and eighty years, and calibrate it with the deforestation data that they had on the table. But the main conclusion of this study is that despite the conclusions on CO2 absorption efficiency on the part of the forests, we don't have more time to fight climate change and don't change climate change expectations. And in his defense of cunnyadism against scientific reason, the defense of the free market against democratic reason, and that seeks nothing more than to say that every one is seeking life. Miri, the Agricultural Organisation Coordinator and Ramaders, the COAG, presented a study on the effects of climate change on agriculture, and talked about a climate bill that you don't talk about. The effects of climate change cost the camp 550 million euros per year. This is the cost of climate change on agriculture and on the branching of Spain; for processes we already know: desertion, extreme water, the drop in agricultural yields that we are living in. I say: "To take action today urgently with the aim of keeping global warming below one and a half degrees is more efficient and less costly. The prevention of climate change, therefore, will not only help us to protect our agriculture and our economy, but will also make an eternal summer not to dry up our gastronomy, traditions, culture and identity. And what do you propose to respect? Dismantling all climate policies in the agricultural sector and collecting, and at the company's side, and, obviously, that no one pays taxes and that every person is looking for life. Certainly, you quoted the Banco de España, but the conclusions of the Banco de España are quite clear. In fact, the holder of the study of the Banco de España is: "The Banco de España sees it essential to increase green taxes and public regulation in order to boost the ecological transition in our country and protect the economy. But you, before that, don't. You before that what they say is that every school is looking for life, because you obviously know how to look for it better than the rest. And they say: "To end imposed laws from outside, in relation to laws against climate change, as if it had not been approved in the Parliament of Catalonia and as if it had not been approved in the Congress of the State. And it's that "imposed from the outside... do you know what was imposed from the outside? Fiscal austerity, the nationalization of the banking debt, the privatization of public enterprises built with money and with the work of all the citizens of our country. That was imposed from the outside. But, of course, that's his election program. And there is no more affluent and alienating electoral program, if they want – using their words – than their economic program for our country. Following economic studies, the cost of climate inaction..., Spain will lose up to the deu_per_cent of the gross domestic product if nothing is done to fight climate change. But there's always a problem here, which is that there's someone who prefers me to lose the whole country to them. And in a country where twenty per cent concentrates half the returns of capital and practically half the returns of labor, there are those who continue to defend not losing anything at the cost of losing everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.13.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning. We have on the table a lot more of those who want to shut down the institutions of Catalonia and also this Parliament. It is not clear to me that they are still representatives in a chamber that does not represent them, that they want to close up and that, at the same time, they want to make political proposals, if they can be named that way, because the truth is that they only seek confrontation and have the word to insult and disrespect all the Members we do not think like you. As the PP and Citizens never fail, they have submitted papers to negotiate with their covenant partners, it was to be seen. I also heard and listened to the question that preceded this young man, full of hatred and falsehoods; some cried out to the cell: "As his friends fill their pockets at the cost of the green fiscal hell," said Congressman Lopez. How can you, children and heretics of Francoism, linked in the great majority to parties that have formed part of great revolving doors, come here to appoint this government in such difficult matters? You, who have dyed and have your friends bereaved to the great electrical merchants with under-orbit, Spanish governments who have made the people pay the million of the Castor project. Lessons, not one. Taking advantage of the advent, do they realize that the education system is a success in Catalonia for what it does to the assimilation of knowledge of Catalan and Spanish language? If it weren't for that, I wouldn't understand them when they were talking, just as you wouldn't hear me. Visit the language immersion for newbies and very welcome and view the model of school in català. Returning to the subject we are dealing with, and to reflect on the bassanades that you may come to say, you are slaves to a speech of hatred that generates many incoherences. While here we are asked not to make these green policies, the Commission for the Protection of the Ebre Delta admits that the Delta has no time, and it is added to the cry of the consensus table, when from the territory we say that we do not have to allow us to follow the first climate refugees. Well, gentlemen, either they're doing green politics and, obviously, other actions already studied and programmed, or they can already go to the Hebrew making bags because soon a tempor will be taught. We may be more or less in agreement with the policies of the Catalan Government, but there is no need to underestimate the effort that has been made to find solutions to the problems. Inaction is not an option for Junts for Catalonia. We want policies that preserve our planet; an overexploited planet that urgently needs us to act. Look, I have a habit of listening to those people who don't know how to talk: technicians, specialists, doctors... You're more than just launching the car to build and keep the gloria minute insulting and less. Because its object is not to sail for the planet or to sail for just social policies or to sail for gender equality; its object is to sail to end with any independentist spirit, and if to do so they must insult or diminish, they do so. And if they don't get involved in their parliament and in a democratic way, they send us to the courts that, instead of doing justice, are dedicated to doing politics many years ago and without the people having voted them. For what it does to the light bill, which we care about, and a lot, let me tell you that if you want us to settle with an independent country, we could do the real policies that Catalans and Catalans need. If they help us, then we can make a new country, free of these rotating doors and these deorbited light prices that lead families to make great efforts to cope with bills. Instead of being alone for nuclear and large companies, they start to worry about small businesses and families in a real and determined way. They're not just naming them to fill their mouths. Anyway, we've got a little time, a lot of work to do and we'll do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.15.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Anna Torrentà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.16.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Once again, we find ourselves in front of a movement of VOX dispersed, contradictory, poorly-educated, populist and reality-negative. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, honestly, I don't know what the facts are feeding or if they listen to Councillor Jordà when she asks. I also find that the report of the Bank of Spain has been read, that they cannot say that it is influenced by the Catalan separatists when they say, in point 4, that a planned energy transition is needed, speed up decarbonization, fossil dependence and increase green taxation. Report confirming that carbon taxation has been central to the authorities around the world for the economic transition. And we're going with the tax. If they were to govern, they would know that the changes would sometimes go on to tax and legislate. And not eager to recap, but to change the model, implementing green policies and returning taxes in specific actions aimed at changing habits and opening up business and social inequalities. Companies are aware that they need to decarbonize. And you see it in the appearances we have in the Climate Action Commission. And doing it well attracts capital, generates jobs and improves our salvation. I'll explain the 2030 agenda. The 2030 Agenda is not a Catalan invention. It was approved in 2015 for almost the totality of the world's wasteland at the General Assembly of the United Nations and marked a joint full road to combat poverty, inequality, climate, environmental degradation and prosperity, poverty and justice. And what the governments of the Generality have done is take on this commitment and purpose and create goals of mitigation and adaptation. As was also the case in line with the 24/2021 decree of renewable energies, to agile and limit the energy transition. And in six months we have gone from 60 megawatts to 1,320 in public information. And we are also doubling the history into self-consumption installations; only in new months. Let's talk about the primary sector. As a daughter, granddaughter and payback, I'll tell her that when I hear them talking, VOX doesn't represent the primary sector. We're not poor. We're essential. You are sowers of pores and smokers of smoke. [[Greetings.]] And yes, the primary sector and agri-food is vital for the country and must be sustainable ecologically, economically and socially. Catalonia has one of the main agri-food sectors in Europe. And being competitive means taking risks and challenges, such as keeping the level of excellence in the supply to the entire population, but ensuring that they are without, safe and quality. On legislative regulation, I will tell you that the European Union is the first institution to regulate most of the issues affecting the primary sector. Do you know that, often, the Spanish State invades the skills of Catalonia in the field of agriculture and industry, or sets basic standards that lead to duplication, and that could be avoided? And we're still with the Delta. On May 17, Councilwoman Jordan announced the creation of the Delta Protection Executive Committee, with a follow-up of strategic actions planned in the short, medium and long term, consensus and participation with the territory. Because resolving the Delta's regression is a priority goal for the Republican government. And I've finally left me the wax of the pasty: "To put the human being in the center and main protagonist of climate policies. Defined "human being. I will say to him: « Tell me about the Spanish male citizen who thinks like VOX. Is it the same human being they want to put in the center of immigration policies? And the same human being they want to pose in feminist politics? And when the 216 million climate refugees arrive, what will they do? Climate policies? How can climate change negators demand climate policy? For all this incongruity, we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.17.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.18.0	Thank you, President. Madame de Esquerra, I wanted to explain what the 2030 agenda was. I'll explain to you what it's like to be against the 2030 agenda. Being against the 2030 agenda is that fertilizers and fertilizers double their price. Being against the 2030 agenda means practically that you have to ask for a credit to be able to fill the car deposit or pay for water, electricity and gas supplies. To be against the 2030 agenda means to be in favor of the payees who took part last week in the Plaza San Jaime de Barcelona. [[Some applause.]] And I do not deny that there is a need for a transition, which you say we deny. I don't deny it. I have already told you before: you need a transition that sees how you pack and go home. [[Some applause.]] Then, to Mrs. Paneque. The truth is, we're at an antagonistic distance, you're absolutely right. We do not deceive our voters; you do. And then, to the deputy of Junts. If there are children of Francoism here, they are in Junts, which we all know. So lessons, the fair ones. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.19.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half, once the fifteenth of the order of the day is solid. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into access to basic services in the rural world]] [[302-00147/13]] Let's move on to the next point, to the motion following the Government's inquiry into access to basic services in the rural world, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. And to expose her, has the word the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.20.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, citizens who listen to us... Which factors influence why citizens resist in the rural environment? Which factors influence why to leave and remain unpopulated? We could all say many factors now: mobility, reelings, transport, rail, internet, availability of housing, availability of varied work places, identification with the territory, participation in the future of the territory, the relationships that can be established, etc. And also the availability of servers – the availability of servers. This is why basic public services bring great value to rural areas. Schools, health centres, public transport, social services, cohesion and facilitation of life in rural areas and the relationship between citizens. But the provision of public services has specific difficulties that must be faced in order to maintain them and to make them effective. And this is the objective of the inquiry we made in the past plenary and of the motion that we have presented by the Socialist and Uniting Parliamentary Group for Progress. For the school; for the school, it is the first public service to the rural territories around which local life is organized. We ask for concrete – surgical measures, if they want – to ensure that there are teachers in places that are difficult to cover; because the schools can continue to open with very low rates; because they have, more than that, the resources needed to be able to work with their complexity. Also for the free transportation and fooder of the schoolless nuclide alumni, and also for more places in kindergartens. We also presented this motion to the health and care services. We're asking for more resources for primary care, like everybody else. We ask to keep local consultancies open; to encourage medical and nursing staff, not only family doctors, but also regional hospital specialists and in general the infirmary of the whole system. We also ask for nine specialties at regional hospitals to avoid long shifts of patients and their relatives. And we ask to continue to guarantee the non-urgent health transport service. The rural world, as you know, has a very high, higher-than-removed, aging indexes. There is therefore a need for more residential and public day centres, help to adapt housing to the lives of large people, more resources for home care and also residential resources for people with disabilities, for abused people, for people with severe mental illnesses, because there is no such place. They need a move out of these areas. We also presented the motion for the mobility of the people. We must advance in the best of public transport, public transport and public transport. That is why we are asking for the creation of territorial authorities in areas that do not have them and to study systems, also, of tariff integration, and above all more resources to be able to maintain access to the habitats. We also propose actions to dignify the rural world and integrate it into the urban agenda. We call for the creation of a rural guarantee mechanism, in the form of rural development observatories, which analyses the territorial impacts of public policies; a mechanism to be taken into account in decision-making, which can review public policies, regulations and ensure that rural areas are not harmed. They are measures that must have a real and useful impact on the problems of public services. These are concrete, very concrete measures, to which we believe that this Parliament should support and assume in order to consolidate and respond to the specific nature of the provision of public services in rural areas. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.21.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of the deputy Mr Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.22.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group on this SGP motion is to be expressed in Spanish. I will do so as I did yesterday in the inquiry, in the energy mix that I made to the government; as I did also in the debate on the motion that preceded this one, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, and as I will do at the end of the morning by positioning Ciutadans in the motion on road safety and mobility of Republican Left. I do so and I will continue to do so in Spanish throughout the plenary to make clear Ciutadans's position in the face of the outrage that is taking place in this plenary by the nationalist and separatist groups in this Chamber, which has not supported the CUP because it has not wanted to stifle in the forum the supposed moderation of the proposal of law that the PSC promoted with the trilera will to avoid the fulfillment of the ruling of the TSJC, firm and enforced, which mandates the Government of the Generalitat, which the PSC supports without compromises, to give in Spanish the twenty-five_per_cent of the classes in Catalan schools. That is, it obliges Spanish to be used also in Catalan classrooms as a vehicle language in at least twenty-five_per_cent. In short, that rinsing that has driven the PSC with its main partners in this Parliament – Esquerra and Podemos – and the one that has managed to drag together in disbelief at Junts is shameful, and I hope that the voters who have placed their trust in the Socialist Party of Catalonia will take note and act accordingly in subsequent electoral disputes. Having said that, a motion with the stamp of the PSC is what we have on the table, of a kind and seemingly well-intentioned tone, of which the delights of the parties of the Government of the Generalitat, who have the opportunity to amend it to their liking, with the conviction that much of their amendments will be accepted by the first party of the opposition, which is delighted to chalanage whenever it can with the Government that rules us out. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we have tabled an amendment to add to point 5(f), with the intention of promoting the model of zero to three years of schooling with agreements with municipal entities and also with private child care centres, so as to ensure the free provision of services to all families, whether or not they have childcare facilities for their children in municipal child care centres; an amendment that is the result of an undeniable reality: not all families get places in municipal child care centres; families who are engaged in the use of private child care centres also have the right to enjoy the freeness that this motion advocates. And in that sense goes our amendment. Turning to the specific points of the motion, I would like to say that we do not see clearly the need to create an observatory of regularity which exercises the functions of rural guarantee mechanism by which the rural world is taken into account in decision-making and can review public policies to ensure that they do not harm rural territories. We also believe that what is intended in paragraph 3 of the motion, creating this new administrative instrument of supposed control, is nothing more than unnecessary duplication. There are already sufficient political and administrative mechanisms to ensure that measures affecting the rural world are taken taking into account the real needs of that environment and result in the necessary equity between equal citizens before the law and thus equal before the public administration. We shall therefore abstain on this point. With regard to everything else, both to the development of the rural world and to the development of activities linking the rural world with the urban one in terms of complementarity and cooperation to improve the social cohesion of Catalonia, we agree, and will therefore support points 1 and 2. With regard to point 4, where specific measures in the field of public health and public health, all of which have been repeatedly tabled in this Parliament and adopted in previous legislatures, we also consider them to be appropriate, and we will support them with our vote in favour. The same applies with regard to education, with the exception of our amendment, which seeks to extend to day care centres of private ownership the agreements that will guarantee free education from zero to three years. We will also support both points 6 and 7 in all its sections, as we have already done in this Parliament, even with proposals on these same issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.23.0	On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Anna Feliu has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.24.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, sometimes, when talking about the rural world, it is as if it is spoken of another world: a whole world of the reality of many people who are only going to make some sort of outing, vacation or enjoy the landscape. So no, what we call the rural world are the towns and small towns where we live a lot of people– a lot– but clear, not so much, huh? , as in the areas of the metropolitan area or large capitals. However, not for the least people, these people and the people who see them, are less important. Because Catalonia is all of us, both those who live in cities and those who live in towns, and equal opportunities and resources must also be for everyone. That is why we have a rural state that guarantees positive discrimination in all government policies aimed at rebalancing the territory, which apply to what we can call a presuppositionary fraternity. That is to say, to reconnect rural and urban areas, because rurality and urbanity are a symbiosis that benefits both parts, because rural areas provide essential ecosystem services for the whole society, such as food generation, stem or biomass; a good conservation of the forest mass that favors climate regulation, biodiversity, landscape conservation, among others. In this sense, Mrs Romero, I share with you the need to put on the table that access to basic services in the rural world must be an unsurpassed priority, because access to these services will depend, and much, on the repopulation and the arrangement. With a population of middle-aged more than the rest, there are basic services that can guarantee, as now access to medical services, to residential places, to day centres, to home-care services, that they are also very important, and also to think about mobility, as is done from the Vice-President's Department with transportation on demand, which already operates in various regions. Without neglecting, either, other essential services, such as the school, the children's lars – which I would say to the previous Member that from private children's lars in the rural world we would like to have none but public ones – facilitate the rehabilitation of empty habitats, which, unfortunately, there are also many, among other things that we would like to do to improve this rural world. We need small towns to have the tools and resources to promote a good quality of life comparable to any right in the country, with work and economic opportunities such as those generated by digital connectivity, with the optical fiber stretch that during this mandate must reach all the towns of Catalonia with 11,500_kilometers of optical fiber. Now we have all the capitals of the region..., and as I told his company one day, "all, except one, which is the Suert Bridge, because to get there you have to make a shave to carry the optical fiber that has to pass through a state-owned road and there are still no such permits. So, you, Congresswoman, who sure has good relations with the state government, would ask if you can help us to expedite the processing. As in everything, it is a question of believing and prioritizing policies, tools and resources, and putting them at the bottom of the territory, but above all of believing it, because, if not, we will do it. And, in this sense, he wanted to put in value two projects driven by the Vice-President's Department, Digital Policies and Territories. On the one hand, the pilot test of the project of relationship that is due to end in seven municipalities of the Garrigues, with a reversal of 3_million euros, to improve, among others, the digital connectivity, access to housing, we space collections of work and residence, a better of public transport and urban planning. A comprehensive project that is intended to convert into a program, with a presuppositional capability to reach all the most unpopulated regions. And a project also, which is UN-Habitat, to the Lands of the Ebre, which must also help to improve the economy and the production model. In summary, sensitivity, positive discrimination, territorial equity, opportunities and productive economy, to reverse the trend and generate illusion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.25.0	And in the wake of the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Antonio Flores.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.26.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, we find ourselves another time before a youth about the rural world. I will not deny that on my part I am delighted that in this hemisphere it is constantly debated the needs of the entire territory of the country, and not only of the metropolitan space. That's why we're voting for this young man. And not to thank the fellow Members Anna Feliu and Sílvia Romero for making it easy and willing to reach agreement on issues and transactions. Working from Tremp, I can feel many of the needs of the Pyrenees every day. It's logical that everything should and should move forward, the government, in this sense, considers it essential. We just find ourselves at a time of paradigm shift to the rural world. The government will approve the rural agenda on Tuesday. They wanted to make it, in addition, with ideas why this agenda is the main tool of change. In concrete terms, the agenda contains almost a thousand actions, some of which we reiterate here today; but, as I said, better, to insist that I did not stay. I'd say, fifteen days ago Meritxell Serret was defending a motion to speed up the deployment of this agenda and to do so from all departments of the Generality so that it is a cross-cutting and urgent priority of all. Continuing to speak of the rural agenda, of the thousand linked actions, of the consensus and of the participation that there has been to elaborate it and also of its main objective, as Mrs Jordan said, we want to equal as much as possible the living conditions between the rural environment and urban areas, we want people to live there, we want a country that is socially and territorially balanced. And most importantly, this planning hasn't been done off the charts. More than 1,200 people have participated; they have organized themselves to give response to the reptes of the rural world. And also important: he has participated in the elaboration and can participate in the governance. The rural world will be present in the follow-up and in the making of decisions, highlighting above all one of the most important actors: the local administration, the assemblies, who see day by day and who are who will coordinate with the rest of the agents and entities. Another time this government shows how it sees and votes the territories, as it has to be. It is the rural world that must govern and decide on its own future. With the actions of the rural agenda we are deciding on the ecological transition, on how we want to connect the territory, on how we build a just food system, on forest management, on transition, innovation and social dynamism, and also on the democratic challenge, the people who live there and their welfare. The concrete motion, among others, social elements for the welfare of the people, such as salvation and education. Here's a point and apart. Just Education, the department, has already assumed the eighty_per_cent of the investment needed to build rural Bressol schools, ensuring that you don't have to shut down and that you can open up new ones anywhere. Seventy-five rural Bressol schools will be able to follow, and now they will grow by nine. Working in this way, the Government guarantees equal opportunities in the context of the territory, so as to work for southern Catalonia, so as not to leave any part of the territory without the public service. I'm done. To ensure a living rural world, it is important to ensure that we always benefit and work for the implementation of sustainable economic projects that guarantee work places throughout the year. It is a virtuous circle, with which, by the way, it has begun to work with firmness. People must be able to settle in the territory with viable projects, and that is why there are worthy and quality services. This is the only way we will have Catalonia without and with full cohesion from all the Catalan territories. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.27.0	Therefore, to fix his position after the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.28.0	Thank you, President. The PSC presents us with a motion which clearly shows the shortcomings and needs of the rural world, as a result of its own actions: inaction, disdain, irresponsibility, political incompetence of you and all the parties that have been in the Government in recent decades. We cannot deny the situation of the rural world in Spain, and especially in Catalonia, the forgotten Catalonia. Depopulation, loss of entrepreneurial activity, lack of generational renewal, lack of schools, nurseries, medical centres, banking institutions, lack of adequate channels of communication, telecommunications and a longetera make the majority working population in the agriculture sector, the main source of income in the rural world, over sixty years of age, and the same thing happens in the livestock sector. You don't have a real plan for the rural world. In the social sphere, for example, we find that Catalonia is experiencing the most serious birth crisis in its history. If they continue with these policies, without a family perspective, Spain, but especially the rural world, will not survive the problem of depopulation. You, gentlemen of the PSC, support the Government. Between them they bring only goodist proposals, which serve no purpose, because they never carry them out. You just want to look good, but act little, not to say anything. They don't cheat on anyone anymore. Well, yes, to your voters. The rural world has realized and is tired of sterile promises. We need to reverse aging and regression. Without going further, last week I was visiting Antonio, a farmer of Torregrossa, who explained to us the bureaucratic obstacles and problems he has in order to continue his exploitation. The truth, that it would take the whole plenary to be able to expose it, but I invite you all to visit it with me and he himself will explain it to us. As I have said on several occasions and will repeat the times we need, our parliamentary group, since the first day we stepped on this Parliament, has put forward a number of proposals, many of which are just as casually presented by you months later. Then, proposals for local, social and economic development in rural areas. Measures such as the implementation of programmes for the detention of new business employment sites to diversify the rural economy; measures to simplify administrative and bureaucratic procedures to speed up the development of projects and initiatives to reactivate the rural environment; measures to capture empty housing, manage housing bags for those wishing to settle in the rural environment; measures to ensure telephone access and the quality of mobile connections; measures to increase employment dedicated to conservation, nature-care and protected areas. And, like these, hundreds of measures. Our vote will be in favour of all those measures that benefit our farmers, farmers and our entire rural world, and against all those where they impose their climate fanaticism, their ruin agenda, their gender policies and where they waste the money of all Catalans; in short, those initiatives that have nothing to do with the real needs of the sector. You only think of being happy with your partners in the government, the separatists, because you actually aspire to form the long-lost tripartite. Gentlemen of the PSC, stop acting like puppets of separatism and lie to the Catalans as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.29.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.30.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, we will vote in favour, therefore, of this young man, who seems to be saying that he was copied from VOX... [[Rialles.]] I'm pretty sure it's not like that. I mean, obviously we'll support it, because everything they propose, so it's consistent with the needs of the territory. Not because we say it, but because you say it your own territory. Still, we do care, and that's obvious, not because you're presenting it just because here, so, there's already a government, there's some governments, and all these proposals that end up talking about sanitation, transportation, education, social services, housing... there's really a problem, isn't there? And that means we're carrying masses of years without doing everything we had to do, if not more. I mean, little has happened to people, in some fears. And now, then, it's very much about the rural world, and it's fine, that we already have different motions talking about the rural world, and because it's a necessity, not because it's not a reality. But this means that there are actually some shortcomings and clearly this indicates that the own economic system, right? Capitalism has, for many decades, brought us to this current situation, where the cities have been the centres, where the cities have attracted all the people who have been leaving rural areas, creating this situation that we have. And the governments, surely, this and the others, and the others, therefore, have not taken sufficient measures to prevent this past, that the elderly people leaving rural areas – this depopulation, that is not new from this – and they have not put enough resources, especially in services and economics, because that is not the past. And it's good that we don't get along now and start doing..., this rural agenda has been approved, with participation, obviously – it would just be missing, right? – from the first rural areas, and the importance of the gatherings here in Catalonia. And more, as he speaks to us in Ton Lloret, in the book The Other Rural World. He tells us that of the 947 municipalities in Catalonia, 50 per cent have fewer than a thousand inhabitants and 30 per cent have fewer than five hundred, and that they are the ones who call the micro-populations. And, as you know, you tell us that these municipalities have doubled or tripled the population, and that they have now had to group together in the Association of Micropopulations of Catalonia, for some time now, and that they work together to engineer joint projects and to lobby and make visible the problems they have. And, precisely, specify lack of services, infrastructure, little recognition, lack of knowledge of its reality on the part of the higher administrations, etc., right? And most of which – of all these problems – tell us that they are the exact consequence of depopulation. And obviously he's talking to us, so, there's been a historic break between the rural world and the urban world, and that's what we need to solve right away. And motions like these, where they put on the table the needs that they have in the rural world..., and obviously matched, with the approval of this rural agenda, with more..., say about a thousand actions; perfect! What we would like to see, and unfortunately only to see, therefore, that has happened in this Parliament, is that we approve laws, we approve agendas, we approve many things and then these things do not come to an end, or they do not develop, or they bring to an end very few of the things agreed upon. And we'd appreciate it if you didn't go through this rural agenda and this young man, because we understand that this can't be a fashion, especially a few years ago, especially from the cove, that we've been looking back at the rural world, the world where we live a significant part of the people of Catalonia, and that it's not all on fire, is it? We must now speak politically about what is going on in the rural world, about this depopulation, and we must implement measures, but then we must not bring them to an end. And to say, therefore, that we will vote in favour of all this and that we will do the maximum follow-up, both of this motion and of the rural agenda, because we think that they are essential tools to ensure this equity, this equality, this being able to look another time between the urban and the rural world, and look at each other equally. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.31.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.32.0	No, I won't say anything, he just thanked me for copying the motion to the deputy of VOX, who introduced it here a hundred times; put it in the register some day. [[Rialles.]] See, the north-five percent of Catalans live in three hundred municipalities of more than two thousand inhabitants, in the metropolitan area and on the coast. This means that a third of Catalonia's municipalities have the ninety-five_per_cent of the population and the remaining two_thirds have only the five_per_cent. And it is a people's wisdom that goes far and wide: from the first industrialisation that has lived especially in the metropolitan area, and after, obviously, from the agricultural industrialisation that has lived, that has been the one that has also allowed there to be population surplus that can follow the steps of industrial emigration. And this means that it is a tendency that is systemic, that we see it in Catalonia, that we see it in the rest of the State – in what we know as the "Beautiful Spain", that we see it in France, that we see it in all the countries that have experienced processes of industrialization around it, and that therefore there are elements that are systemic in everything that is happening to us: in that three of every four municipalities of the Lands of the Ebro lost their population, in that two of every three municipalities of the place of law lost their population, or three of every five municipalities of the Upper Pyrenees. And that, therefore, we are talking about a phenomenon that has deep structural causes and that is very hard, and that is not a period that..., although it has been expressed politically in recent years, it is a period that sees..., it is a process that sees far and wide. Jo soc de un poble de la Segarra. If I had to say what I would say about Molins de Rei more than two years ago, but practically half my life... my childhood passed it to Biosca, a village of the Segarra. And these days, preparing the young man, I looked at the INE. In 1842, there were 1,093 inhabitants; in 1950, 585, and in 2022, there were 180 inhabitants. La Segarra, which is not..., although it is surely a region that transports us all, therefore, to Catalonia dry, agricultural, etcetera, it is an industrial Catalonia for the agri-food industry, carnique, with opportunities for work. And yet, he saw very accused depopulation phenomena. He's lost eighty-three percent of his population from half the 19th century to here. And, therefore, it is a dynamic of foundations. And what we're talking about today, I think, is that as much as this dynamic of foundations speaks; it's not as much as we look at this permanent rural exodus that we live, but as we guarantee that the people who have remained have decent living conditions, and that if someone is planning to leave for lack of living conditions, they can stay there. And I think it's one of those proposals that allows us to start thinking about how we build countercyclical dynamics, how we take advantage of the time we live to build population dynamics that go against the economic processes that we're living like the country. Jo, with the least, would bring two questions. The first – now we are in the grip of the law of science, we have also proposed it – should start to take seriously the territorialization of public and private investments, and that we should have a territorial map of investments, and that we include territorial equity as a vector at the time of thinking about the set of public policies and also at the time of impacting on the private world and on private dynamics. And the second, which is where the movement is centered and which we share in full – we will abstain at a point on mobility, where we have a little different approach, but if we have presented papers we certainly could have agreed – to raise the problem of public services. I, in my municipality, in Biosca, was a student of a ZER, of the ZER de la Segarra, of a rural school area we shared, all schools of small municipalities, certainly infrastructures, made excursions together, we shared some of the teachers... And this school is already closed. And it is precisely this: if we are able to articulate a network of public services in the health field, in the educational field, in the field of housing – which we are talking about very little, but there is a problem of clear housing in the rural world and access to housing, especially in some areas – and public transport, which allows us to create a network that is as good as we need to go, and why all of us can plant some time in life if we return or not return to our native municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.33.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.34.0	Well, improving the provision of basic services, as we have said, is a policy of maintaining the population in rural areas, but it is only one, of the sum of comprehensive and cross-cutting policies that should be put on the table. It could be, for example, an adapted taxation – the Courts of Aragó are processing a law in this sense, or Castella - the Manxa already approved tea – or as are economic development policies. The Government, our Government, has just approved the document of the rural agenda prepared for Arca, Catalan association of micro-population municipalities. Congratulate this work – we've been participating in it too –, this process participated. But this rural agenda, she advises, has to be implemented in a plan of government action. It needs a concretion, and that this concretion remains executive, remains useful, remains applicable. Because the rural world deserves it and needs it. To our young man, our group has presented twenty-three measures to improve public services. We have no intention of making any progress, but of these twenty-three measures, two are planned in the fifty-nine strategic actions of the rural agenda: strengthening primary care and rural school. And, Mr. Alonso, Mr. Iron, if we resubmit, therefore, many proposals, why do they think it is? He said to himself, 'cause they're not complete. We are grateful for the predisposition of the groups, we are grateful to all the groups who want to – those who want to – add, those who have wanted to add in favour of the rural world, and especially to the groups that support the Government, with whom we have reached a series of agreements and transactions to enable the approval of this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.35.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to have a place this middle, a solid time at the fifteenth point of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies]] [[302-00146/13]] Let's move on to the post-government inquiry into tourism policies, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. It has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.36.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, 15 days ago we presented an inquiry that basically had three objectives, which is what we also wanted to reflect on the motion we presented, right? A first is to know how the department faced, precisely, the new tourist season. An objective _second, that was to try to give a boost to the national pact for tourism, as it was agreed in a young man already months ago. And a third objective was and is to know and promote parliamentary work so as to approve a new tourism law in Catalonia. The councillor, therefore, fifteen days ago explained how he faced this new tourist season from the department, a very important season for the sector, which must be, say, the season of recovery; that we came, in addition, from a Holy Week which had been very positive for the sector, in a context also without restrictions, but also with uncertainty, as can be the war in Ukraine, obviously the consequences that it can have for tourism, for certain markets, and then also inflation, the rise of prices in a sector, tourism, which is very sensitive, precisely, to the rise of prices. Therefore, we, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, were concerned about the loss of competitiveness that we have been denouncing in recent years. As I said, one of the objectives we had set ourselves was to push forward this national tourism pact. In any case, the Government is talking about a national commitment to tourism – there is some concern about respect, which, in any case, I will mention later, which we accept – but we are also concerned about some elements or, in any case, about the music that is above this proposal for a national commitment to tourism, at least for which we have been able to read, about a certain blurry that is running, and also to have spoken to the sector. Basically, two questions concern us about this document. One, I think there is an excess of criticism of the tourism sector, and then, too, there is no compromise on the part of the Administration, is there? And also, in this sense, I recommend you to read an article from the Diumenge past in La Vanguardia, in the economic supplement, of the Economics Professor of Pompeu Fabra, José García Montalvo, who spoke of the necessity of energy transition, which we obviously fully share, but he already warned that the current models of energy transition do not seem to take into account the complexity of the economic system. And the same goes for tourist activity, which is a very complex activity and, therefore, we should also take it into account. And the third objective we had marked, as I said, was to start work on a future new tourism law in Catalonia. The current one is 2002, totally out of date, totally out of date. The Councillor took the compromise that the new tourist law in Catalonia would be approved in the first half of the year. Honestly, we have doubts that this is so, because right now, that we know, there's not even the first draft written, is there? But well, anyway, we'll look into it and follow it. What we do have very clear is that we want this law, so I have as much consent as possible in your approval, and also some respect that I will refer to later. A new law, obviously, that must be a new modern law, a new law adapted to the reptes of the 21st century that the sector has, as is the sustainable development of the tourist activity, that supposes also a complete revision of all the tourist regulations, that it has a vision of tourism based on the economy of the visitor, that it incorporates a new model of governance, that it is also a clear bet for quality and not for quantity, that it incorporates, as it cannot be otherwise, the digital economy, that it also updates the law of the Catalan Agency of Tourism, especially for what it does to the criteria of promotion, and that it fosters the circular economy, among many other things that, in any case, also fall back into motion. And, above all, that's working with agents and tourist actors, just like with the rest of the administration, right? – regional councils, assemblies, parliaments–, to make this new law possible and, as I said, to walk towards a new model of governance, as I said before, with a greater presence and ability to decide on the part of the territory in tourism planning. Well, I'll leave it here anyway, and then, on the back of the exams, I'll be in position. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.37.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.38.0	Well, then, good morning. We will vote in favour of the motion. From the start, thank you for presenting this young man. We believe that it is necessary to have a debate on a reality in crisis, on a sector, the tourism sector, which I believe is evidence of a real crisis. This bet for quantity, for growth at the cost of quality, I think it is obvious and that it is necessary to put this issue on the table of the political debate. And I think the young lady can somehow put the debate together, don't you? A debate in the House revolves around the need for this national pact, now called a national compromise. We will not pose problems in the name, but the idea of a national pact where the different sectors involved can intervene there, and the need for a law that changes the tourism model addressing the challenges we have, both the current ones in relation to the current, as in the future, a strategy of the future that rebalances and so on. We have presented some ideas, which we have seen have been incorporated into the final text. With regard to the participation and definition of the new law and also in the governance of the new model, we have insisted on the participation of all sectors involved, as well as municipal entities – I think I was already thinking – but also the representatives of the workers. The unions represented by the workers must give a view of a complex reality, a reality that..., on the other day, speaking to representatives, precisely, of the workers, explain to me this reality of the hospitality sector to the summer: twelve, fourteen hours of work, without any day's celebration; July and August, in a continuous way, working without day's celebration; if they do not want to take them in; well, one thing is said, it does not apply; the time register is closed. It is a complicated reality, and therefore the representatives of the workers must be able to say theirs; that is why we have insisted on this. And we have also made proposals on incorporating the principles of the circular economy in time to address the change in tourism model and to rebalance territorial distribution and enhance cultural and heritage tourism. They are elements that have been incorporated into the definite wording, and therefore we appreciate the effort, so to speak, of incorporation and transaction, because we believe it is better. And this evidence: that this excess of growth in the tourism sector has been done at the expense, in the sense, of quality, but also colliding with the territorial balance and colliding with the quality of life of the citizens of the territories densely massified for the tourism sector, and also, obviously, has been done at the expense of working conditions, as it had previously commented, has it not? Therefore, I do not think that we can continue to acristically boost the growth of the sector. I believe that the young man must allow us to continue working, an approved time and we can't afford to work; that we can't afford this sector's creative growth and that we can't afford this pact that transforms it. A pact to transform the sector in a clear way, which is for the territorial balance of the sector, which is for the sustainability of the sector, which is for the quality of the work and which is for a new tourism model. Obviously, we can't stay at the police station. That too, apart from the questions that may be approved and the work that we need to do in the case of the pact and in the case of the debate on the future law, we need to set ourselves up in the day-to-day. We cannot wait until there is a new law to change the model, but also, in the daily practices of the different areas of government responsibility that we all have, we must already start to change this tourist model, trying to avoid these tourist hypermassifications that end up colliding with the living conditions of the citizenry or these territorial imbalances that impoverish certain territories at the expense of others and that also renounce the potentials that we could develop. In any case, we will vote in favour of the motion; we believe that it puts the debate on the table and we believe that it is an important challenge. We must bet on quality, we must transform the model and we must do so in the service of the territory, in the service of the citizenry, but also in the service of sustainability. All the more, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.39.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. I see that in this country it seems that in order to get out of the crisis everything is about iron or hubs or national pacts; every day we have a national pact of chistera – now we give it national compromise, but more or less it is the same. We understand that when we talk about the need to rethink the tourism sector or to give out or to address the consequences of the crisis in the tourism sector we, too, have been able to analyse what we have had until now before we legislate again. And that's why we proposed the need to conduct a study on the ability to carry out tourism in the country, where we also analyzed some territories or territories that always..., or that have traditionally received more tourist load in order to be able to analyse it. And from here, see how we move forward, who are the exits, who is the tourism we want to promote and what is the tourism we can assume and which the country has the capacity to assume. But, go on, this thing didn't want to pick up. Therefore, from this point on, we understand that what is claimed by this young man, if we do not want to study the touristic load capacity that exists, is to continue working towards this touristic growth, towards these growth policies and towards this liberalisation of the sector. I, therefore, cannot share it. And I'll explain myself a little more. Because if we look at and compare it to other states of the world, if the Catalan countries were an independent state, we would be the world's sixth tourist power: 50_million tourists in a year, a tourist charge for over or equivalent to Mexico, country. I mean, we're really looking at what is the tourist skills we have and what we're getting. And we understand that it's excessive. And that's not supposed to be against tourism, but it's supposed to be excessive because it has consequences, and it has consequences because it impoverishes municipalities and more massive territories. And, in this, we look at family income data available from some of the most touristic municipalities and we see that it is not corresponding, this rich assumption that generates tourism, with family income available in those municipalities. I mean, there's no family income available higher than in other places, but more quickly the contrary. At the same time, it is also said that no, but if we look at labour costs and wage costs, we see that tourism is, a little, the paradise of job insecurity– if we compare total labour costs and the wage costs of tourism with other sectors, such as construction or the cultural world–, which is well paid and well paid is not precisely so. But we could also analyze that tourism for years or the past thirty years has destroyed the coast and contributed to the property boom. We're looking, if not, at the artificial coastal surface, or we're looking, too, aren't we? , the coastal strip, which is completely urbanized in the Principality of Catalonia, and we will see that we are talking about the turn of fifty-nine_per_cent; if we bring the head of Creus and the delta of the Ebre, we are at eighty-one_per_cent. I think we could also say that it has some negative impacts around the coast, but we could also say that tourism is a magnet for the growth of infrastructure. If not, what would be the debate around the airport if not? And finally, we also have to take into account that tourism, especially tourism in the Mediterranean, has the years as we have known it so far if we take into account the climate emergency, the climate crisis and the consequences that this will have. Therefore, I return to the beginning: for us it is key, if we want to talk about tourism, that we analyze and that we are doing an independent study around the capacity of tourist loading that we have. Without that, it's a fake debate and it means more than that, and, therefore, it's inexhaustible to us. We would therefore vote for the majority, but not for the Member, except for the fourth point, which is always a little absurd to vote to give compliments on things already approved, but as it was approved and we voted for it at the time, we would give back support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.41.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Tonia Batlle, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Dissolved, therefore, as we have already indicated, a respect for tourism policies was approved. We believe that it is an important issue to deal with, because, as we know, it has an economic representation in our very important country, this sector. This motion was aimed at these much-needed and important legislative changes that are essential for the sector, as has been pointed out, because the legislation we have is very old legislation, and it is also very necessary for the competitiveness of the sector. It needs a review, since the rule is 2002. Many updates have occurred, but obviously there are problems of understanding and interpretation that prevent this, an integral and joint view of the sector. As indicated by some of the proposed group, therefore, a pioneering law of future and consensus is needed. I would like to point out that, from our point of view, we understand that it was not necessary to detail specifically many of the aspects of the motion, because we find that much is missing. And obviously, therefore, everyone will end up in the debate and in the corresponding legislative process. The importance, however, of the sector, showing the need for this parliamentary action and aggravating the predisposition of the groups to reach an agreement for the transaction, makes it clear that we are voting in favour of it. At the moment, we will deal with and debate, as I said, many aspects, but I would now like to name some in concrete terms that we consider to have vital importance. The tourist municipalities, we talk about their definition: we redefine who these tourist municipalities are, we redefine also who the parameters are to be completed and above all their financing. It is very clear that these municipalities require some services, that they have a return of all the tourists who visit them economically, but they also have a series of services that they themselves cannot take up and must look for the way in which the country helps them. Because, obviously, these municipalities generate economically not just an income in their municipalities, but for investments that generate different sectors of the same region, the same province. Another aspect: touristic accommodation. Problems of some types of touristic accommodation: habitations of touristic uses, shared rooms... They can cause many problems and you have to look for which is the legal way. For example, let me make it very clear – in a community of times, we have to look for the legal way that there is no HUT because it causes problems in the times, but also what it causes is this animosity towards tourism, which, obviously, we have to fight that neither is there, because we all live from tourism and we have to try to look for the positive part; obviously, fighting against the negative. Establishments. They all have to have a qualification, too. Here I'll talk to you about it... as you know, hotels have stars, tourist apartments previously had keys, but now it doesn't exist. So let's talk to him again. Tourist tax, of course, another aspect: fifty_per_cent returns to the municipality; another fifty_per_cent is left to the Generalitat. Who's got to run these tickets for the Generalitat? Do you have to consult with the sector, which are the ones that have been recapitated? Does he have to go to the promotion, which is the direction he has to have this fee? Is it done or not done? Another aspect, for example: volume management. When we talk about tourism, we all talk or think about masseuse and volume. It is very important to manage these large volumes of visitors; it is a key element, therefore, between public policies that we have to manage from here. We need tools to manage growth, as we just felt. Obviously, very detailed and specific tools. The WHO talks to us, in a report of 2018, therefore, about the growth of tourism, in an aspect already more prominent at the urban level, that the sector needs policies that guarantee sustainable practices and that re-establish the negative effects of tourism. So we have to keep these tools. We need to talk about natural resources, infrastructure, mobility, this possible saturation. But I also have one thing to say: that tourism has to claim it and we have to defend it. Tourism is often criminalized, tourism is less important, and it can lead to its disappearance. But we are very clear about what tourism represents in this country, which is a doze_per_cent of GDP, and we have the responsibility to give it this import in our country's economy, not only for tickets, as I said, generated also for consumers, whether consumers of international tourism or ourselves, that we consume tourism in our country, but also, therefore, that these investments affect many other sectors not only of the municipality, but, as I have indicated, of the region and of the province and outside it. And let me finish this motion with the same thing that I ended up with the previous motion that we had in the month of December: we need to have a clear look and analyze the causes, the repercussions and the benefits of tourism, also helping in the territorial balance of tourism and also helping the mature destinations that are transforming, and also seeking the potential that we have with the country, throughout the country, of tourism. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.43.0	And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Bartomeu Account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.44.0	President, Members, Members, the current moment of tourism is defined by three precedents. We come from a very controversial system and question each time more for massification, seasonality, its contamination. Secondly, for the proof of the effort that the pandemic has assumed, which has caused the current tourist plans to have been questioned almost in their totality. And a third question, that is that we are in the postcovid-19 dam, that feeds, unfortunately, on the model of always and punctual help of the Next Generation fund. Examples.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In Girona's communities, as of the year, overnight stays have multiplied by five and reservations for the summer are more than one hundred_per_cent. So, this is the situation we have, isn't it? And just as he was one of the worst sectors, he was also one of the fastest to come back. One of the sectors that for its characteristics – dependence on the outside, a certain point of massification, precariousness of the people who work there – has been the most harmed, but for these characteristic same ones it makes it pay quickly. All this is at the crux of the new tourism law, which has a very clear turning point: for a more ethical, innovative and responsible tourism. He's working on an intense and broad proposal. When you're packed, it'll last in this room. And so this proposal has a consensus that we believe it is broad, and this young man is not an example, because we agree very much with the questions they raise, right? First of all, I would like to thank, therefore, the very good willingness to reach agreements to agree to it, but it means that this consensus has been possible because it already reflects the work that the Generality is doing for a new tourism model. The transformation passes, first, by more quality, more diversification, less seasonality and less geographical concentration. Secondly, a tourism that generates quality of life for everyone. Thirdly, tourism is fully integrated into the dynamics of the circular economy. To the Republican Left this transformation we want to make it with consent. We want to generate complicity. We want to ensure that the citizenry sees how we define the country's tourism model, and we do so for an active and participatory citizenry in the best guarantee of a decent and cohesive country. And, with all that, there's plenty of room to run. All of a sudden, as in the previous day's inquiry, I think – I'm sorry – we're still talking a lot about quantity and economic aspects, but we also need to talk about quality. What do we mean by quality? So the reliability of the offer and the product, or the excellent compliment of the commitments made for the sector; making the team or network of the whole sector easy and continuous; promoting creativity, producing new ideas and providing them with comprehensive content, and generating territorial and social cohesion; balance between tourists and seafarers and between activities. This last aspect I think is very important, because it is possible to make spaces designed for the quality of life of visitors and visitors, defunct as the primary element the pure commercialization of tourist spaces. On the other hand, I would like to promote the integration of public spaces between visitors and visitors, where, by using the words of the Director General..., he says: "The one who is balanced to be experienced must also be visited. Deseasonality has to be much more regular offer and price and organize new activities in covered and comfortable spaces. Catalonia has a climate that allows to enjoy nature all year long – cycling, hiking, wine tourism, gastronomy, art and architecture, etc. – and territorial balance is indispensable. I'll set an example. I'm convinced that here in the chamber someone will share it. Not so many years ago, Girona airport was between the first airports in the name of passengers of the State, and it generated benefits and was profitable. And an important issue: basically with tourists, for whom the time factor is much less important than in business tourism. All right, come on down to Girona's flights to Barcelona. And now it's said that the airport in Barcelona has become small and Girona's is expanding and is becoming more and more practical. This is a model that cannot be followed, and this too should assume measures in the idea of territorial balance. And also a touristic loss, which the State at the moment is refusing to pull forward, which assists the Government of Catalonia or which is in proportion to the GDP of Catalan tourism in the conjunct of Spain. It is a more coherent and credible issue of the Government of the State with Catalonia. Because if we don't decentralize the management of LOSS we already know what's going on: they'll concentrate the investment in Madrid, projects that they have more to do with the BOE's captured economy than grow in knowledge and added value. And, really, we cannot talk about tourism without talking about people working in the tourism sector and effective wages to acquire a life with clear expectations of the future. Why is the industry competent? Why it generates activity all year and wages are high and worthy. We must achieve this in the tourist sector itself, that the activity is all year long and that, moreover, wages, with a well-worked professional training..., also involves important professionals. It's the way the Government of the Generality is working, and we think this young man and the different transactions give him reason to have started in this direction, and that's why we're voting for it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.45.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.46.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone, deputies. Promoting tourism strengthens the economy and enhances our region. It is therefore our duty to contribute to this. Today, the PSC presents us with a motion on tourism policies; a motion that does not focus on the priorities of the sector and that combines acceptable elements and technical measures with ideological proposals and the absence of fundamental problems; a motion that once again demonstrates the inability of the Socialist Party to bring positive measures to this House. You are unable to establish a certain diagnosis. Why have they not put forward a proposal to abolish the tourist rate? Are you not aware that this tax drowns the sector? Have you spoken to anyone in the sector? If they have, they will know that this tax reduces its competitiveness – it reduces its competitiveness – and adds nothing to it. If a family wants to go to the beach for a week, they will have to pay a hundred more euros if they go to Salou than if they go to Vinaròs. Where do you think you're going? We do not understand why they find it so difficult to understand that there are quality-oriented destinations and other quantity-oriented destinations. Surprised to see the left constantly reneging on tourists with few resources. We are also surprised to see how the party responsible for the worst economic and health management in the West has the defachability to make itself concerned about the recovery of the post-covid tourism companies, while urging the Government of Catalonia to take action on the globalist anti-prosperity agenda, also called 2030. Look, do you know what the priorities of the tourism sector in Catalonia are? Catalan tourism needs no more legislation, no more chiringuitos, no more taxes, no more regulations, no more plans and no more pacts. Focus on what's important, Socialist gentlemen. First, Catalan tourism needs the Government of the Generalitat to put an end to legislative double standards in the field of tourism, eliminate abusive taxation and reduce bureaucratic and administrative obstacles to entrepreneurship in the sector. Last Sunday, just last Sunday, I met with the management of a very important tourist company on the Costa Dorada. Among other things, he informed me that they have to make the expansion in Andalusia. And you know why? Well, because of the bureaucratic and economic obstacles that you find here. Eight hotels have opened in Andalusia this past year. Six remain here, who also intend to move them there. And this is the reality. Secondly, it is necessary for the Government of Catalonia to attack once and for all the structural challenges faced by entrepreneurs and tourism workers, including tourists themselves. Among these challenges we must highlight, first, the deseasonalization of the sector in order to achieve greater consistency in employment rates throughout the year and begin to eradicate the precarious work that many Catalan families suffer. And, secondly, insecurity in our neighborhoods and in our cities. Because of you, because of the governments, tourism is no longer coming to our region. Yes, because of the growing insecurity, which is manifest. Every day we find news in the press, not one, but many. Last week they docked Sebastian Vettel himself when he left his hotel, everyone knows. In Barcelona there is no one safe. And days before, a dead man for a shooting in the middle of Salou and in full light. Finally, in order for business initiatives to be properly developed, it is necessary for public institutions to establish an environment of legal certainty, political stability and optimal citizen security for the development of entrepreneurs and workers in the sector, and for the attraction of tourists, both domestic and foreign. Look, it is urgent to put an end to the institutional instability of separatism, to the fobic tourism theatre and to the anti-tourism policies they are carrying out. In conclusion, in the last decade, tourism in our region has been able to keep flowing despite and not thanks to its rulers. It has shown that tourism professionals in Catalonia are able to move forward, to open their blinds, their businesses and despite their rulers and not thanks to them. The tourism sector will find support from the VOX Parliamentary Group for public institutions to stop torpedoing and start accompanying and helping. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.47.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.48.0	Deputies, deputies, Madam President... Mr Ruiz, don't worry – don't worry. He's been asking me if I'm gonna be too hard for a couple of days. No, I'm not gonna be for nothing. Certainly, I could tell you, I could advance you that we would give support to this motion, because it is difficult not to give support to everything you have put us here – and now I will tell you why –; I tell you that we are going to abstain in all of it. But for a very clear reason: I believe that what you are presenting here..., imagine that it would not have been presented; it would not change, even if approved, anything that could happen in the tourism sector in the future. Because basically what they are talking about is that those resolutions that have already been adopted in this Parliament are being implemented. That we can agree with the content, but what they say basically is that. And then they urge the government to do its job, that it's not doing it, it's true, and that it gives us the opportunity to say it. But that's the second part of what brings us here. And, in addition, we are once again talking – and this is certainly new – about whether or not a timetable, a methodology for making or making such a pact or commitment to tourism is being developed. In this I agree with Mrs. Regant, imagine. I think it's that we've come to a point where when we have a problem we make a pact, we make..., we come to some kind of compromise; euphemism varies, but all we do with all this is delay and affect inaction. Because, of course, the tourism sector is precisely the sector that is the most, or one that has suffered the most during the pandemic. And just after the pandemic, what precisely the tourism sector has shown is that it lives..., in fact, is the reflection many times of the expression of the need of the citizens, even of the citizen sensitivity, because there has been – and we have seen it in the campaign, above all, in Holy Week – an almost exponential growth of the need to travel, of the need to move us, of the need to have, therefore, those tourist experiences that we must take very into account. And it is precisely in the tourist experience and it is precisely this feeling that I believe is the basis and essence of the tourism sector. But reality is different. In Catalonia, if we compare to 2019, we have lost 70_per_cent of foreign tourists, which has not happened in other communities in the rest of Spain. And something much more serious: we have lost in spending for tourists in Catalonia..., when, for example, the national average is twelve_per_cent, here we have lost fifteen_per_cent, and in Andalusia twelve_per_cent. By the way, I thank Mrs Lázaro for also talking about tourism management in Andalusia, since Juan Marín, precisely, the vice president of the Board, was managing it. It worked really well. In fact, he is a quite different vice president than you have in Castile, Castile and León; at least he has functions of some kind. But, well, we'll see as the days go by and see these realities. In short, I think it is obvious that we have a problem – we have a problem. As I said, we have lost in numbers, we have also lost in revenue. And what does it mean? Or what are we proposing? I believe that – and in the end, we defend our group – there are two basic points. One that I think there has been is the inaction, the inaction of the Government; that is, we are still waiting for this tourism law to be made, but it is that, in addition, that tourism law..., which was announced that 2023 would be passed, and that I, like Mr Ruiz, do not believe it either, I have not just seen it, when there is not a preliminary draft law. In addition, we must add to this the continued policies, for many years, of decrease, of tourismophobia in Catalonia and that it has also settled on the brand, for example, Barcelona; that is, we have lost in tourism congresses, for example – and this is data – regarding other Spanish cities, impact and strength. And this also gives us the impression that we have a problem of governance, that is true, a problem of governance and interaction between the institutions, the Catalan institution, in this case the Generalitat, and the local world and local administrations. If we fail to reconcile, coordinate policies at the autonomous level and local policies, we find cases like Barcelona, where there is really a very clear problem of inability to change a model. We talk a lot about changing the model, we insist on changing a model, but we never do it or we don't act on it. I'd give for a lot more. Mr Ruiz, I am grateful that you have also tabled this motion to talk about tourism, which is very well, that the debate is interesting, but in this case we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.49.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.50.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Very quick. As far as the CUP is concerned, we sincerely believe that you do not feel that you are carrying out a tourist load study for all of a tourist destination as Catalonia can be, do you not? We believe that what you have heard when you ask for a tourist study is for certain resorts or tourism products, but for all a destination as complex and as diverse as Catalonia seems to us to have no sense at all. And that's why we didn't accept the puzzle. For the rest of the discussions, a thank you to the groups that have presented them and to the good will to reach an agreement. It seems to me that they are coherent, forward-looking ideas, which sincerely improve, therefore, the drafting and proposals of the initial motion. And, in addition, it also reflects this will of consensus on such a strategic issue as tourism in our country. And I agree with what Mr. García said about the government's inaction. Actually, we've been very critical. This is why we are presenting this motion, both for the national compromise and to promote a new tourism law in Catalonia. So, we've been very critical, but we've also been very critical – and so we've denounced it, in this case, today there's no counselor to do it again, but you're not aware – with the orientation of the tourism promotion that the department had in the past few years, right? And that is why we also claim that there is a change in the law of the Catalan Tourist Agency, precisely to reorient, therefore, the criteria of the tourist promotion. And, very quickly, I'm going back to saying concern before the outburst of the national commitment to the tourism that circulates, huh? In any case, we will bring our proposals to the Councillor and to the Director General, but I warn that it is not in a good direction. All right, all right, Thank you. [[A few applause, background and rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.51.0	Thank you. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into business investment]] [[302-00149/13]] Having finished this debate and these public comments on the doubts that Mr. Orderig had about the motion, let's go to the next item on the agenda, because the vote on this item will not last until we substantiate the fifteenth item on the agenda. Let's pass the 14th, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into corporate investment, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. And you have the word, to expose it, to the deputy Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, a little more than a year ago President Aragones, in his second investiture session, set out for a feminist, green, democratic and social transformation of our country. It was marked as objective – and they will allow me to carry their words – « push the outcome of the crisis, leave no one behind, transform the economic system of the country, with one objective: that it is able to generate welfare and prosperity for everyone; a transformation that will not be achieved without industry, a transformation that will not be achieved, in short, without investments. And this has worked tirelessly on the joint venture of the Government of the Generality, but especially the Business and Work Council: getting investments for a more early, greener and fairer Catalonia. There's a lot of work left to do, but when things are done, they must be recognized. And in this young man we want to shape this work done and drawn for the department in the direction we have to go. We ask ourselves what we need for a more sustainable and equitable economy. In the first place, continue capturing investments. And, to do so, we need to ensure that the Administration is more agile and more efficient at the time of pushing business processes. Examples such as the inversion to Mont-roig del Camp support this dynamic, and this dynamic of good iron. Second place, to be attractive to these investments we call infrastructure. And that's why we need everyone's complicity and everyone's understanding of their areas of competence. We understand the public sector, which I will tell you is going forward and that it is not going to trailer from the private sector, but that it serves, in short, to mobilize it, because the sub-upstream model, that of competing at the bass in environmental and fiscal standards, is not ours. What we need is to have the necessary conditions to attract investments. And that means an agile administration, yes, but it also means talent and human capital, which we have and have a lot of. But this means guaranteeing investments in infrastructure. And here we have to talk about who's left with part of this pie. I'll give you an example. How have the Next Generation Foundations for the Mediterranean Corridor been prioritized? So to the high-speed line Madrid-Sevilla or to Madrid-Jaén, as the companies of Junts have pointed out in their reviews – that's why we have accepted it. The dinu_per_cent of these investments would correspond to us. But what we are asking for to get a broad consensus in this Parliament is the least: that the State completes what it presupposes, and that above all executes what it presupposes. A least that the State systematically incompletes in Catalonia. The assumptions are carried out at the bass, and in Madrid, at the alça. It doesn't matter who governments are. A small one that costs us rich, well-being, places of work. It was calculated experts of the Department of Economics of the University of Barcelona: only in the period 2012-2017, up to a two_per_cent of GDP. So we're asking that the common company, the PSC, that have responsibilities in the state government, don't rig the head under the wing, vote these points today. We build a great consensus in favor of the reversal in Catalonia. And, above all, there are consequences, in short, with its word. And we also ask you to remin to decentralize the management of the Next Generation funds. We have not seen the consequences: thirty-two per cent of the funds executed went to Madrid, to the Mediterranean Corridor. The centralized and centralist management of the Next Generation funds is the greatest danger for our economic fabric. We do not waste this unique opportunity in a banal nationalism, as the loss of Spanish language does. We take advantage to develop tractor projects that serve us to drive industrial clusters that we climb to compete in the 21st century, starting with sustainable mobility and electric vehicle. And one last point. We have said this by active and passive: we cannot get out of the crisis competing in labour costs. And today this translates into a guarantee of returns before price increases. If we increase the prices and increase the benefits but the wages are maintained, what we are doing is devaluing those wages. What we're doing is actually increasing inequality, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Generality must make it clear: from its margin, it must negotiate to make the guarantee of making them a central element in its political action in a context of inflation. But the major peril for this proposal is the labor reform of Yolanda Díaz. We warned them, we told them that the details they did not want to negotiate in order not to alienate the employer were not minor. I effectively [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – not two months have passed since the adoption of the CEO's labor reform that are already taking advantage of the locks to invite the companies to divest themselves of the agreements that close the wage review. Then I'll try to talk, in the end, about the items we've negotiated. To thank, above all, the negotiating process with the commons and with the PSC and with Junts to try to get this young man to pull forward. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.53.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.54.0	Yeah. MPs, MPs, President, MP Montalà... So I'm the first one to speak because we've presented a statement. Precisely this time I didn't get lucky and didn't come to see in the group and we couldn't negotiate anything. Actually, he didn't call us. Nor does it alienate me, because basically what we did or asked for was a finding, and it is a real finding, and it is that there has been an inaction on the part of the Generality in the development, in fact, of what we could say, in many cases, the ability to take advantage of opportunities in Catalonia. And today you were talking about Mount Roig of the Camp; so I could talk about Sagunt. Mont-Roig du Camp..., which is very good, and which, in fact, we have to work on this line to have investments in the territory, and, in this case, there are five hundred workers, but, of course, we are talking, to Sagunt, about figures..., well, between thirteen and seven thousand direct jobs. And the Volkswagen Group did, and precisely the Volkswagen Group we have in Martorell. And we don't know yet why that magnificent proposal we might have made from the Government of the Generality... or what didn't happen because we missed this opportunity. It's a real lost opportunity. And it's an opportunity that we want, so, like at least, to express in this theme that you didn't accept. Another opportunity and another evidence and another finding, Mr Montalà: the inaction in the construction of infrastructure in Catalonia. When we talk about business, we talk about an ecosystem. We're not just talking about opportunities and direct investments, we're talking about everything that surrounds the need or everything that generates this ecosystem because it can be located or because it's attractive the location of a company in our territory. Clearly, we have inversions that are stuck in rollers, and we've had our competitions for years now. Line 9... no one's talking about line 9. No, it's never about line 9. When someone says line 9, everyone... there's an incredible silence, of the expenses they've incurred. We haven't got enough, no government, to finish it. Now they're talking about T-Mobility. How many years do we have to implement T-Mobility? How many years? And governments have basically been themselves. And we're not talking about tolls anymore. Which tolls remain in Catalonia? The generalities. Well, the optical fiber deployment. It's been talking about deploying optical fiber for years. We talk about industrial polygons, we talk about the need for digitization, but we are not able to deploy optical fiber to Catalonia. We have polygons without optical fiber. Because it's often spoken, isn't it? ..., "it is that polygons do not benefit, "there are not enough industrial spaces, but we cannot advance in the 21st century without being able to implement all these infrastructures. So, there is a lack..., there are more, but..., because we would no longer talk about other great works that are essential for us, such as the B-40, the Fourth Belt. This is a subject, moreover, that affects..., between the Generality and the Government of Spain, so there is... Because, of course, many times since Barcelona these infrastructures are seen as an attack on the territory, but it is also certain that the territory, in some way, has to try to vertebrate. And it's vertebrae with lives that are necessary, and that going to Terrassa, to Martorell, that could surely be done or realized in very few minutes..., so I guess what I'm assuming right now. And with this, with this lack of investment, this inaction, we could give an answer to this young man. That, of course, we will vote for a few points, quite a few points, in favour, because in the end it has improved and I think it has reached some consensus. It's also true that many of them can't do it. But we have more problems, and I don't have time to express them and list them all. One is innovation. There is no talk of innovation; the FP theme was introduced, which was missing in the initial, but there is no talk of innovation. Let's continue to reduce... in the European race of regions innovation continues to decline. Catalonia's competitiveness has also fallen at European level. About the young man, basically, he's done enough for me, like at least, thanks to a change that you've made, that's fine. I assume that they have joined, because we are talking about the beginning – that we will vote that not at this point – to keep Catalonia's appeal as a ‘pointing region, and someone has joined this, that ‘region does not sound good, and they have changed it and they have put it – said Mr Canadell –..., in the end they have laid down economic space. Well, economic space. [[Widow's remorse.]] In short, it is a reason that many points, I say again, we could sign and vote for them, but the basis of the problem of the business ecosystem in Catalonia, which is the lack of infrastructure, the lack of investment in infrastructure by the Generality, the lack of innovation and competitiveness, which are common policies of the Generality..., they are the basis, many times, of incapacity to hold..., to continue losing this business fabric in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.55.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.56.0	Well, good morning. From the start, thank the young man. It will allow us to talk about industry and the idea of this... I think the young man is starting from this idea that without industry there is no future, but I also understand that he finds that without an industrial model change, the future will still be much more complicated, right? And, therefore, I believe that the young lady places some of the folds. While I have a great deal of focus on corporate investment, I believe that it places elements of infrastructure, training, quality of work and social dialogue as elements that, in some ways, have to allow us to move towards this industrial model change. It's in this brand where we'll position our vote. We will not vote all of them affirmatively; in one we will abstain and in another we will vote against, for different reasons. The rest of us will vote in favour of it, as well as then, in the deployment of the content of the elements of the motion, sure we can find points of difference and points of discrepancy, right? I think that in the House there are elements..., the import of infrastructure to run industrial investments, to run, in short, industry, but also those infrastructures that allow us to move towards a new product model, right? , a more sustainable model, more balanced in the territory and also, say, sweeter in relation to the conditions and quality of the work that is developed in this industry. From this point of view, I believe that these ideas somehow cross... with the importance of the formation and the qualification of people. He's betting on dual training, I'm sure. It will mean that this Department of Education, for one song, and the Occupational Service of Catalonia, for another, will have to work more coordinatedly to see how they do it, but above all, how economic and social agents are involved because this is actually done and produced from the point of view of the qualification of people and from productive innovation. Elements also relate to the quality of the work. It refers to inflation and the need for no loss of purchasing power. The importance that skilled and well-paid work is an element of economic development, of better in the industry from the point of view of innovation, stable work, skilled work, well-paid work..., is easier than helping in the processes of organizational modernization, productive innovation, etc. So, from this point of view, it seems... And also the need to strengthen everything we want, social dialogue spaces, where, obviously, industrial policies must be an active part of government policies. There is industrial policy, industrial policy. It can't be that the market rules everything, but in this active industrial policy that governments have to make, they have to count on economic and social agents, they have to count on the social dialogue because those transformations that are actually taking place, don't they? Obviously, these are important things if we want to change the industrial model, if we want to stall business investments, if we want the industry to be the engine of our country. But there is not enough, with this; as well as politics, politics in general terms. That's why there's a question that we're grinyola, huh? We need to know where the sound is. When we want to do politics, we need to know where we are, and we cannot say indistinctly the systemic discrimination of the State in relation to Catalonia in the matter of investments. If we are not able to differentiate between what is the People's Party Government and what is the Government of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol and United We can today, if we are not able to differentiate this, we remain in the most absolute inopportunity as the country and as the government. Because... let's look at the facts of what the real investor effort of the People's Party governments was, and what today is the investment efforts of the state coalition government. This is the first one. And then, if we want to know where we are, we also need to criticize the presuppositional executions and investments, but we also need to assume our own self-criticism of the deficit in the management of infrastructure. The sound of seeing that we have not really supplemented our assumptions, that we have to execute ourselves directly, or, if we are not capable of making this self-criticism, we can hardly make the self-criticisms out. Know where we are, negotiate. If we want more investment in Catalonia, there is not enough to demand. We need to set up a trading table with the Government of the State to see how we materialize these investments. They can demand and demand and demand, but if we don't negotiate we won't go anywhere. If we don't negotiate and wake up, we won't go anywhere. Importance of the dialog and the negotiation. And, third, we must have a strategic view. We can hardly change the industrial model if we don't have a long-term vision that aligns the actions of all departments of the Generality, the Government. We cannot talk about a national industrial pact 22-25 and forget that we need to talk about a pact 22-30, which is what would give us this strategic vision and this ability to move forward. And, unfortunately, let's say one last thing, that the Member could not avoid talking about labor reform. We are getting out of the labour reform, because the job creation and strengthening of the appropriate collection that today the enterprises have the most job creation, that is, the more capacity for innovation, the better able to improve the initiative of the enterprises. Enabling is very important. And you agree, yes. Our labour inspection, which we are labour authority in Catalonia..., oblige companies to comply with the standards that labor reform has imposed on workers, and not on businesses. But, of course, we have to do something, like labor authority; don't look at us - it's in joyful criticism. [[Some applause and rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.57.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament Óscar Ordeig has the words Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.58.0	Good morning. I'll start... now a song came to my head from when I was little. So, the suit, huh? He said: "I have so many things to say and so little time to say... We were going to start... [[Widow's remorse.]] Could you sing it for me? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Listen, starting with the end of my company, labor reform. Listen, you're doing a bad favor – I don't think you're aware of it – to the social dialogue and the import of unions to our country at the time of agreement, huh? I mean, they don't like labor reform, doesn't mean they have to load the system. I don't know what the alternative is. And with this they are giving aside some arguments that obviously do not please us even if we are here. I believe that this is the problem: the motion that presents us is a clear example of the problems and contradictions that one finds when making an inquiry and a motion to the government that I support. And it is that the half of the young man is dedicated to saying that the Government of the State "does not give me, "in the least, "does not complete... And then... Therefore, you require here up here with the Government of the State, and you require or massage very few points to the Government of the Generality. Clearly, then, that's where I'm going to say... oysters, I think we pull topics, pull weights, and then we don't solve those important issues. There are 500,000 peppers in Catalonia. And I'm sure many of us here – we've never talked – have family, we've met... we've talked to the boss, we've talked to the unions, and, man, I think we have a lot of information about what they really need and what they want us to put in this young man, and it doesn't come out, here; there's a little bit more in the papers and the transactions we've done – there's a little bit more. 'Cause look what's wrong. Look, there's a lot of college studies, unions, employers... very interesting studies that talk to us about how we can improve energy costs, the energy competitiveness of companies. But, of course, if we're the last of those energy transitions to Catalonia, we can't do it. Or in an innovative and sustainable digital economy. Or in professional training, which we are in half; the European industry has half of its workers with secondary studies, while we have twenty-i-tre_per_cent. Or in technological infrastructure. We're talking about technological infrastructure. How many areas without mobile coverage do we have in our home? A lot. We do not, in fact, have a map to know where there is no technological coverage, or where there is obviously – we say now – where there is no fiber. Certainly, it is not certain that the Pont de Suert does not get the fiber because it is not given permission to cross the national. What's going on, crossing a national has to be done with technical requirements, and that's where they don't agree. So, we put the problems on the table and try to find solutions, huh? Menys complains and more solve many and many problems we have. We all agree that Catalonia must be an entrepreneurial, innovative, industrial land. We all agree. But it is that, of course, we make a thousand plans, a thousand national pacts, a thousand demands on others, and, meanwhile, we go backwards in many key aspects at a time of constant change. And, as we have seen, with this reversal and this great good news, we see how capital, innovations, investments, is moving a lot, at these times, and, therefore, it should be watered down. We also do not need to disqualify the different public administrations. If it's not about that; if it's about going to complain, looking for public and private consensus where you need it. And that's why the counselor's trip to Korea made us happy, to try to open us up to the world and try to find solutions. Please, we don't do any more laws, we don't do them. Facilitating economic activity law; if it's all right, we're not complicating it. Please, we don't do any more laws. Unique window, we complete it. What else? Next Generation. We were, another lied or true lied. Are they coming or are they not coming for the money of the Next Generation, of the European funds, to Catalonia? Clearly, you don't count as money coming to Catalonia the Digital Kit. Deu_mil empreses, deu_mil pimes de Catalunya – fifty_per_cent of the pimes to which anava directed – have rejected the Digital Kit in Catalunya; 200_millions of microxips laboratories, in Barcelona. Industrial digitization. Fifty per cent of all Spanish requests are Catalan companies. Industrial digitization: are European funds coming to Catalonia, to Catalan companies? Yes or no? Oh, no, because they're not managed by the Government of Catalonia. Do you know what they say to us, businesses? Listen, I've offered you a piece of paper to try and really solve it. If there are distortions, coordination problems or some subsidy lines that are not well adapted, let's talk about it, now or to the bilateral committee, it's the same, but it's all that can be coordinated. But the money's coming. Renewable descale, I said. Professional training, for when? Rodalies de Lleida..., the only province of Catalonia that has no rollers. They could do it in three months, but as this goes through an agreement with Renfe..., "Oh, we don't like this, we don't like this. But please, let's get in there. Or an institutional campaign to put in value the enterprise, the enterprise and the industry of our home and to escape the damage, which have not helped us. Well, thanks for the six accepted statements and the transactions. And most of the text... we're in favour. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.59.0	And, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Joan Canadell, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.60.0	Well, thank you, President. Catalonia is once again one of the most dynamic economies in Europe. The GDP of 2021_has increased by 5.8_per_cent, which means a twenty-i-u_per_cent more than the rest of the Spanish State, which makes it a 4.8_per_cent, while the European Union grows by 5.2_per_cent. Catalan industrial GDP is already above 2019 and is a new historical record for Catalan industry. It is true that the industrial pesso has fallen, but not because it lowers the industry, but because the service sector has grown much faster, as in all advanced economies. Now we have a great opportunity to reindustrialize Catalonia, and that is why it is the key to dispose of the Next Generation funds, which were designed for this. But having a state against us doesn't allow us to do it in full. Counselor Giró has already explained to us that 2021 we have only rejected the 7.6_per_cent of the Next Generation funds. 7.6, Mr. Gallego. With the PP we might have reached the deu_per_cent; with you, 7.6. Once again, Catalans are discriminated against by the sun because they are Catalans. That's why we've introduced a task to demand the density of the funds, which is what surrounds us for our economics. And it wouldn't be difficult if it's for the 11,000_million of the semiconductor loss that this Parliament, by the way, voted with an eighty-yes_per_cent of support for our petition. Let us hope – without great confidence, I must also say – that the PSOE and Podemos vetllin in Madrid. Unfortunately, the Government of the State is acting unlawfully against Catalonia and in favour of the other most faithful communities. Requiring the loss of the car that the investment is made in more than one autonomous community is a covert way of forcing the State to put the boat factory out of Catalonia. So he didn't get his king on October 3rd – take out the SEAT – he'll get it from the PSOE government and we can with his rough game. They are doing a 155 economics preventing it from inverting to Catalonia and putting the SEAT at risk. And that already did Zapatero with Nissan, and, in fact, today Nissan is no longer there. Independence doesn't need it to make a better country, just to keep us from getting what's left of it. That's why we're more in a hurry than ever before, and we need to activate the strike phase. But, as well as the triplets of the enemies of Catalonia, we still feel the European leader in foreign investment, as the Financial Times recognizes again a year ago. And we lead state exports, especially technology. And you know why? Because the key to Catalonia is the eco-economic and technological ecosystem, the diversity of our business with the marks of work of peppers, the prop talent and what it sees us from the outside, from the world. And they won't be able to steal it from us - it's in Madrid for a lot of money, unless they use the brute game, and in that, sadly, Villarejo marks them the way. Therefore, we cannot look after it, and that is why we urgently need independence. Two comparative data respect Madrid: Catalonia is the number u region of the peninsula in technological patents; Madrid, the new number. Catalonia is the number or percentage of scientific publications; Madrid, the number fifteen. This is clear indicators of what has happened in recent years. Madrid has concentrated more than the GDP per cent, it is true, but not on the basis of talent, but buidante Espanya. We are at a time of foreign investment, but in change, the investments in state infrastructure each time went worse. The 2019 Promotion of Work told us that in two years they had stopped investing 28,000_million euros of which they would be close to the economics, and the 2021 update the study and tell us that already there are 35,000; 7,000_million euros in these two years, Mr Gallego. And now they invest European funds to the Mediterranean Corridor in their step to Madrid. Five noses. That's why we demand that the State reverse the dinosaur, the one that surrounds us, into a thread that we've introduced. To see what you, the PSC and the commons vote on. You are now the problem, the problem because the Catalan society cannot advance limiting us to the Next Generation. They are the key resources for the country's reindustrialisation, to make it more competitive. Every euro that surrounds us and does not make us lose competitiveness in our economy, and, therefore, benefit, wages and, above all, future. And speaking of wages, we have introduced a proposal to ask that the government make the minimum wage of reference, sixty per cent of the average, by early 2023. This would amount to approximately 1.240 euros. A good way to boost industry – added value – and mitigate inflation in workers with fewer resources. And we have also introduced a task to address the big problem for the industry, which limits growth, which is the lack of qualified personnel. Without personal formatting, industry growth is limited. That's why the dual FP is key. And that's why we've introduced a theme to grow up to forty percent of dual students. Before I finish, I want to thank Esquerra for accepting or trading all the items we've made. And finally, remember that it's already a_me I denounced in the Faristol the fallen benefits of the energy cell. Make a_me. Makes a_me have won 3,000_million more euros, the energetics. And what did the PSOE and Can do? So that's it. I'm very sorry, but we'll keep remembering until they do something effective. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.61.0	Next, after the defenses, to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.62.0	Yes, thank you, President. It is a very long motion, of which we are used to seeing lately, with eighteen, twenty or twenty-five points; then, positioning you in five_minutes on such complex topics, so it is highly complicated. But I believe that this motion can be summed up in three broad lines. One, that speaks of the wonderful, wonderful and fantastic strategy of attracting foreign investment from Catalonia in coherence with what Mr Torrent tells us in every plenary session and his inexplicable political narcissism. Anyway, they talk about Mont-roig, about the investment of Mont-roig. We're glad, of course, but it's just that a swallow hasn't been in summer. The other day, in the Committee on Economics, Mr Faus, the president of the Economic Circle, said that 310,000 industrial jobs had been lost in the last twenty years in Catalonia. And we are here making a speech of self-congratulation saying that we do it wonderfully and that we are the best region in the world, as the Member of Junts has just said, in the capture of industry. Frankly, I mean..., it's just that..., they land, that is, they make a policy a little bit more reality-based. The imaginative Member, therefore, has also just spoken of Madrid, has he not? He says: "It is that Madrid... Well, I don't know. Look, I'm going to give you a data, so... While... I was looking at the phone, I'm saying, "Let's see how Madrid is, let's see if it's true, anyway, one of these data that this congressman says, isn't it? It says: « Spain attracted in the year 21 28,758_millions of foreign investment. Madrid took the seventy_y_tres_per_cent of foreign investment, increasing the fourteen_per_cent compared to the previous year's figure. Catalonia received only 3,000_million foreign investment. He received seven times less than Madrid, and fell five_per_cent compared to the year 20. And I made it up myself? No, no, The data is from the State Secretariat of Commerce of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. I mean, it's not the typical data we make the ultraturbomegafascists demonic beings of VOX, no. [[Rialles.]] So... a little bit of rigor – a little bit of rigor. And, secondly, they speak in their motion of the classic east, « Madrid mistreats us, « Spain steals us, « the teacher has me mania [[remorse of the voice]] And other things like that. Well, about the investment deficit, right? , some things. They always omit that the Spanish Government has had to face, over the past two decades, two serious economic crises: the financial crisis of 2008 and the one linked to the pandemic, especially. They also deliberately hide that it is the Government of Spain that funds this small bank via FLA, which is owed 60,000_million_de_euro to the Government of Spain. And they say, "No, they do not invest; well, but they finance you. It is that without the Government of Spain we would have to lock the parade, close the blind, which would satisfy us very much, the deputies of VOX. Third. There is a report, I remind you again, by Airef, that I think it is a serious body, which is called "Transport Infrastructures, where it makes clear that Catalonia has been the region of Spain that has absorbed the most nominal gross investment in the period 1985-2018. Airef, huh? The 15,8_per_cent of the investments were taken by Catalonia. I mean, to say that the evil Spain mistreats us and that the teacher has us mania is a lie, is childish, has nothing to do with reality. Also in terms of average investment per inhabitant we are above the Spanish average. And, thirdly, I also see you talking about the loss of purchasing power of the workers, huh? We agree. In the face of this spiral of inflation, from here we have to do everything possible to keep Catalan families from losing purchasing power. We totally agree. Having said that, are you ruling, are you going to lower taxes on Catalan families so that they do not lose purchasing power or are going to continue to fry them to taxes? Secondly: will the IRPF sections deflate, the IRPF's autonomous section, so as not to crush the taxes, now that we are in the income campaign, or not, or just blah, blah, blah...? Thirdly: will salaries be raised to the public employees of the Generalitat de Catalunya around the CPI, or not, or just the private sector? You, in short, always make it up with other people's money. Therefore, the approach you are making is a trap. We, therefore..., listen, there are some points that are fine, yes, you could vote perfectly, but it is that the philosophy that appears in the DNA of this motion we do not share it for these three issues, because it is based on demagogy, hypocrisy and is pure banana Bolivarian populism. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.63.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.64.0	Thank you, President. Well, a lot of things have already gone out in the debate and I will try not to be too repetitive, but we are before a young lady who says a lot of things and says a few things at once. That is to say, in some of the points we could say, "Oh, yes, I do."No, because you don't know what you're saying, beyond words and a certain rhetoric. A little like the rhetoric that reminded the deputy of his intervention, of the famous four transformations, which are basically rhetorical, because, of real transformations, quite a few, in a year of government. Therefore, it remains short at many points. Or, in other ways, isn't it? , has used, as I said, good words but little concreteness, and, therefore, it is very difficult to know if it seems good to us or not, because concreteness is used to being there important and what it shows where it is going. And your god – he went out, didn't he? « What are we talking about? For us it is very clear: planning. Planning, or investments and necessary re-industrialization. The economic recovery or the exit worthy of the crisis requires planning, so we find ourselves missing in this government. Because it's very good that I'm talking about the investment in Mont-Roig du Camp. Yesterday, at the control session, I think it came out six times, the example of Mont-Roig del Camp, or the counselor or the president. Ask yourself why they basically use this example systemically. Maybe he's the only one? They're planting us. So, here, I say again, planning. Planning and diversification. And here... it's the other element. That is to say, it is still based, on many of the points in this motion, on the need for European investments or foundations in the PAST of the electric vehicle. Still in the same bag. We continue with the idea of the automotive industry as the industry where Catalonia takes in the majority of efforts or investments. And that's diversification, because, if it's true that the automotive combustion industry needs to be transformed, we also need to reduce. And, therefore, it is not just a mere conversion of a combustion vehicle to an electric vehicle, but also a redefinition of mobility in this country. So it doesn't still have to be an electric vehicle. And, finally, it is clear that there has been a systematic lack of investment or left on the part of the State in investments in Catalonia, but this centralizing idea of the State, can it not be that from here it has also been reproduced? And, which, therefore, is very good to say "the State does not invest here, but..., does the Generality have a global view and, therefore, does it also invest fleeing the centralization of infrastructures into a centralistic logic? Here too... sometimes it's good to see the ball on the wing, but let's look at ours, too. Therefore, as I said, in many of the points we will abstain, in others we will vote that I do not in some – few – we will vote that yes. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.65.0	So, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.66.0	Thank you, President. Two minutes are short, to try to answer all the contributions you have made from your visions. Before anything else, thank them, in the end, all the contributions they have made in the papers and in the transactions, which have improved, of course, this young man. And I'll respond quickly and quickly, okay? Because I don't have much time. Citizens have focused their intervention basically on infrastructure. We would be delighted if they would accompany us in that the area of competence in which we manage our infrastructure may be larger. If they come with us to ask and vote in favour of this competition being much bigger, like MEPs in the Catalan Parliament, we will be very happy. I mean, it's as easy as helping us ask for a hundred percent of the management of all the infrastructure process we have. And then they can criticize us if we do or don't do the job well, but we have the tools we have and have the competence we have, and that's very important to identify it. To Mr Gallego, completely in agreement with his vision of the social dialogue, of the territorial balance, of the transformative reptes, above all of these educational reptes that we have ahead of us, with dual formation. And if I may say that there is..., that may have improved, the reversal process of the State, but it is close to us, as Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, to say that there is still this lack of reversal and enforcement of reversal in our country. I need to say it. Cal tell us and close to tell us. But, of all sorts, thank you very much, too, for your contributions. Mr. Ordeig, don't ask me the theme of Lleida's scrolls on the table, because the sayings will stick to it – because the sayings will stick to it. Because they've been running it for a lot of time. And how did it go? Fatal. That the students of my village go to another village to take the train to go to Barcelona, because that of Barcelona, to the Lleida-Manresa line, takes what takes. It was managed by you. That nothing happens, that I understand. That every man has to take it from there where he can take it, of course, but also close to us, take it where close to us take it, that we are deputies to the Parliament of Catalonia [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] - I'm done, President. 2021 Rodalies only executed a deu_per_cent to Lleida, huh? – a deu_per_cent, huh? Of course, then, of course I'm going to get where I can get it, as you do where you can get it. At the CUP, we would try to be clearer next time because we would end up buying all and each of the points. I'll try to be more methodical and expand a little bit more this way, in time to explain a little bit to him all the points. I'm committed to it, Mrs. Reguant. I promise. I don't think I'm going to answer it, because bad education is worth studying. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.67.0	Having finished this debate, I must say that the vote on this point, like the rest of the previous ones, will have a place once the next point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the road safety in relation to the modes of mobility, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into road safety in relation to modes of mobility]] [[302-00148/13]] It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.68.0	Thank you, President. This movement is of active and sustainable mobility, not exactly public transport, which we have not done many in this Parliament – and, in fact, there is one of the UPC that is also being debated in this plenary session. And there are five parts: a part that is declarative and that is certainly the most problematic for many groups, because, in the background, it seeks a change of culture: it is that the car, the private motorized vehicle, ceases to be the central element of our mobility and becomes a complementary element. Therefore, it is a bet to abandon the solutions in which to solve the accident is going to expand lives of high speed. And that doesn't work, when we have a mature network like Catalan. That is to say, when we do what we do is to induce more traffic, what we do is to induce more private mobility of motorized transport, and therefore more accidentality. Moreover, this adds to some things that we have done that may not be at all good, such as opening pages without considering the effects that it has on induced mobility or the effects that it can have, at length, in a good maintenance of these high-capacity lives. We've made some advances, but we're doing two steps forward and one step back, and that's as far as we're concerned. It's a lot for us to take the car as the central element of mobility, because it's a little electoralist, because it can take votes; even if we bring solutions to the long term..., once applied, we solve them everyone wants them, but make these passes by. The second part will certainly be easier and more supportive: they are measures of intelligent mobility – intelligent crueltys, temporary signs when there are cyclists on the road, lighting temporary signals when there are animal invasions in life... – and all urban measures. Inversions must be made to high-capacity lives, but not to look for an expansion of this capacity, but to make them safer: secure reversible lanes; safe incorporations because when the vehicle is incorporated into a high-capacity road, it creates a much smaller traffic disturbance, since these traffic disturbances are those that can cause an accident or generate this congestion. A third part, which has to do with traffic movements. We have to bet on inspection or punishment, unfortunately, because our transit moves save lives. And this task that makes our journeys is essential. And, therefore, we ask in the motion that the traffic patrol plan that has announced Interior is being expanded, and that it is being inspected especially in truck tachographs, as was also discussed in the Internal Affairs Committee. And you're also betting for active mobility. Small gatherings do not have the resources to be able to implement measures to protect roadways and cycleways, and here the Generalitat has to make an effort, it has to help them. And they also have to bet to join the nuclei that are at a distance of less than two kilometers for cycleable and walkable lives. This is the bet for active mobility. Finally, it has a part that is the rescue plan of public transport. The generality and the gatherings have made a huge effort during the pandemic to maintain and even improve the quality of public transport in our country, when there has been a drop in users, and that means a drop in inputs. The State had undertaken to rescue, to cover this deficit. He made announcements, but the amount of announcements isn't enough for the losers that the same metropolitan entities are saying or these helpers are coming in as long as they promised. On the other hand, to rescue the public transport that the State also makes the investment commitment that has done the rest of the administrations. In the past two years, the Generality and the locals have pushed the investment in public transport, while the State has frozen it. Therefore, it must be demanded of the State that this part be close to it. Finally, do you believe in safe and sustainable mobility? Of course all, yes, but this means one thing: it happens to leave the car as the central element of the mobility and it goes so that there is a complementary role – and this means that sometimes you will have to take space to the car where there is public transport to make it more agile – and it also goes to take space to the car to facilitate active mobility. This young man who claims to be a cultural change. If they support most points, you will be collaborating on this cultural change; otherwise, you will continue to bet on old mobility. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.69.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.70.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presents to us a motion which, as is usual, affects one of its advisers, one of its departments within the Autonomous Administration, within the Government of the Generalitat, which, by the way, as the motion should already be known, is absent at the moment. Once again, the Government presents itself with a motion on specific issues that most of them are within its full competence, on specific issues on which no motion by the Government would be necessary, but which should already be the subject of concrete action by the Government within the responsible department. These motions – we have seen them repeatedly – are nothing more than an attempt to show Parliament the supposed goodness of government action. These are motions, therefore, for the gallery, which should be unnecessary, but that the Government presents itself in the spirit of taking advantage of the situation and doing what is best given to it: propaganda. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we have also tabled an amendment to this Esquerra motion. In particular, we wanted to add a new preliminary point with which to put into context the reality of the commitment to sustainable mobility that this Government has and those that have preceded it in the four previous legislatures, since Artur Mas took place with the presidency of the Generalitat. What we have seen from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, as we expressed in our addendum amendment, is that the investment in public transport of the Generalitat has been virtually non-existent for more than ten years, and that, consequently, beyond the grandiose speeches that want to conceal this sad reality, the Generalitat has done nothing to make the public transport network improve in extension, capacity and interoperability; an unquestionable reality embodied in many examples, among which probably the unfinished one and it seems that the unfinished 9_de_metro line is one of the clearest and most observable. Of course, the Government – that is, Esquerra – has been unreceptive to our proposal and has not accepted our amendment, which merely intended to contextualize the governmental motion in the reality of things. He didn't surprise us at all, of course. By entering into the specific content of the government motion, the first four points are that the Catalonian Parliament should take a position on issues of various kinds that affect the mobility of citizens in the autonomous community. Predictably they will be approved, the four points, but I anticipate that at least three of the first four points of the motion will not count on the support of Ciutadans. The Government complains that the mobility for the recovery of the effects of the pandemic is in private motorized transport rather than in public transport or active mobility; that is, without any self-criticism. It also wants us to communicate with the mill wheel that congestion and accidentality problems are not solved with more lanes available and with the high-capacity track network. In the absence of effective public transport, it remains a necessary solution to this particular problem. If the Government intended otherwise, it had much to do and had done very little for too long. And point 4, of the promoters of the "I don't want to pay, eh? – Do you remember? – it is nothing but an insult to the intelligence of the whole citizenry. From point 5 to 17 we are going to say yes to everything, without blinking; that yes, with the hope, surely frustrated, that the good words will translate into concrete facts and that the Government of the Generalitat will do its job and do so soon and well, which I suppose will not surprise you. We don't think it's real. In any case, it is the Government that urges itself on issues that, as I have already said, it should be implementing for a long time. Less self-bombing motions and more concrete implementation of public policies that are still necessary for the citizens as a whole. The last point, on the 18th, in which they urge the Government of Spain to a number of things, will also not count on our full support. Look, paragraph (a), which aims to load the entire collection deficit resulting from the loss of users by the covid in 2020, 2021 and 2022 to the central government, is not to be received. In these questions that affect several public administrations consortia, the answer is clear: every stick that can withstand its candle. Something similar happens to subparagraph b. Therefore, at this point we will only support paragraph c. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.71.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.72.0	Thank you, President. I don't see the counselor... MPs, MPs... I think the concepts of secure mobility, better infrastructure, investment in public transport and the use of digital tools for smarter mobility are part of the same equation. And what is that, this equation? Basically, we need to improve the road safety of our modes of transport, especially the people who use them and the modes of transport that use our country's road network. Road safety..., the infrastructures that will serve it have seen or experienced a profound transformation in the past years that has allowed a reduction in accident and mortality, which is the most negative part of this. This trend has been seen, but stagnant, slowed down, in the last two, three years, and so on, isn't it? , of accidentality and also of mortality associated with this. It is not an excluded phenomenon from Catalonia. It is an excluded phenomenon in the conjunct of the Spanish State, but also in Catalonia, in the same proportion. Therefore, from our point of view – and I am already announcing that we will support most of the proposals made to us by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left – we need to implement new measures to follow our objectives. The question we have to ask ourselves is: Is it possible to improve? And I think the answer has to be positive. Many countries and territories of the European Union are doing so. They haven't had this brake and they're improving their indexes. And, therefore, we too have, we believe, an ample margin of improvement. We think..., and we share the proposals that agents in the sector make, in the sense that we have to keep as inspirational principles a zero vision in the matter of road safety. That is to say, if we only have..., or if we have, rather, ambition, we can consolidate these objectives and move forward. The maintenance and improvement of the road network, also in the form of new investments, should be one of the presuppositional priorities of the government, and here the government, deputy, flows a little. We also believe that what lies beyond well-intentioned motions like this, which I have already told you, basically in all its points we will support..., what the Government has to do is to promote a strategic plan for sustainable urban mobility in Catalonia, and above all a plan for municipalism, that political coordination and aid to implement structural measures that make sustainable mobility possible, with particular relevance..., I know that today we have had a number of debates on rural and urban areas, but with particular emphasis on large cities and metropolitan areas in the country – not just in Barcelona, the metropolitan areas of the country – that is where congestion is basically produced at this time. Better at mobility. Improving public transport also has a direct impact on reducing atmospheric pollution, with the objective – which we have also talked about several times in this Chamber – that the quality of the air does not exceed the dangerous shields for the salvation established by the European Union and, therefore, we guarantee the quality of the air basically to the metropolitan region of Barcelona and Tarragona, but, by extension, to the country's conjunction. We are particularly pleased that we have incorporated a message proposed by our parliamentary group, which is the efficient and correct use of the VAO bus, which is an essential tool to promote public transport through express buses, to connect cities and territories that do not have railway lines to move within the conjunct of the metropolitan region. And the deputy knows perfectly, the government knows perfectly that these wagons are not being used correctly. And, therefore, we are pleased that this issue has been incorporated and that we have given dues to the Government in this regard. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.73.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, will defend the papers presented by Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.74.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, we find ourselves in front of a motion that talks about cross-cutting, cross-cutting and coordination that must exist from all areas of government. It is clear that we want good mobility and infrastructure for our country, in conditions and adapted to the territories, but we also want that financing that is necessary and close to us. That is why we will continue to claim and demand from the Government of the State the economic hardships to which Catalonia is under threat, with the need, as Vice-President Puignero has said and on various occasions, of an extraordinary departure to deal with the economic deficit that accumulates public transport from the pandemic, but that adds to the ordinary and deficient departure on the part of the State. We cannot allow, for example, the contribution of the State to the Authority of the Transport Metropolitanity of the area of Barcelona for this 2022 is 40_million euros less than 2021, which was 149,3_million euros, placing us in the same import as the year 2020 and that 2019 and 2018, with 109,3_million euros in 2022, and causing the deficit of this reduction to take on metropolitan joints and from the pre-Generality. It is worth saying that these 109,3_million euros are a total of 1,000_million euros for the metropolitan area. So instead of going forward, what we're doing is going backwards. We want better mobility infrastructure, yes. And we also want to generate the best confidence in public transport so that Renfe trains don't vaggle late day or day and don't vaggle full as sardine moons. We know that from the Vice-President's Department it is committed to the mobility and the transport collected and adapted to the needs of the territory in order to promote a better of the sustainable, efficient and safe mobility, but that it also contributes and favors employment opportunities, educational and commercial without the importance of the distance respect of Barcelona. A mobility with railways, with buses on demand, but also with the need to continue demanding good rail services, which will only be a reality with the transfer of rolling stock to the Generality. And, as far as high-capacity lives are concerned, highways may have gained density, yes, but they are still certain that accidents can increase in proportion to the increase in traffic, but not because they are more dangerous. And the most important thing is that in these there are no frontal bumps, and they have helped to reduce the fatal accidents that there were – like, for example, the national 340 – caused by the double sense of the march. And as for accidentality, we can understand that there is an increase in mobility, paused during the pandemic. People are already leaving home, and may have increased in relation to the previous year, but other factors should be addressed, such as, for example, the increase in traffic accidents caused by the notorious growth of the singlar population. It seems that we have a plague in the territory, that we have at least two and three accidents every day throughout Catalonia, and that they cause all kinds of left-handedness. Thus, in reversible wagons to place more and more security, more movement is constantly being made to transfer additional wagons to prevent the entry of vehicles that are prohibited, and to increase the number of devices in traffic sectors from all of Catalonia, and to ensure a better life security while advancing in the best of public infrastructures for all and for all. So, from cross-cutting and from coordination, let's put it right. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.75.0	So, after the defense round of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.76.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Left is presenting us with a very extensive, eighteen-point motion, which is actually twenty-one, because the last one is broken down. It's a soap motion and rinse out Councilman Elena and the Department of Interior. In many of its points it deals with measures in favour of road safety, some of which, of course, we are going to vote in favour. All measures to promote road safety, to raise awareness in this area in order to reduce road accidents, will always have the support of our parliamentary group. However, we do miss a study on the feasibility and economic cost of these measures, which is not in the motion and which would allow us to assess the suitability and efficiency of these systems. And if in Catalonia..., or not only in Catalonia, but throughout Spain, there is increasing public awareness about the need to respect the rules of circulation, to improve signage, security systems, largely thanks to the General Directorate of Traffic. And for this reason it has been possible in Spain to reduce road mortality, for example, from the four-thousand deaths of 2005 to 1,004 in 2021, which remains, however, an alarming figure. In this respect, we therefore believe that it is necessary to strengthen the mechanisms for collaboration with DGT, by virtue of its proven experience and because it is ultimately DGT that is present in the international bodies in the field of security and mobility management, and it is therefore important to have its opinion. Moreover, the remainder of the motion reflects a clear tendency to demonise private transport, as can be seen in paragraph 2. And in VOX we defend the freedom of citizens of choice of transport that they want to use. For you the fact that a citizen chooses his car as the usual means of transport is a problem. Politicians are not to force citizens to move in a certain way; we are to ensure that the conditions of all types of transport, whether public or private, are safe and efficient. In short, we are to facilitate the lives of citizens, and not to complicate them. Improving all aspects of public and private transport mobility is by no means a problem. And its obsessive criminalization of the car directly attacks the work possibilities and quality of life of many families and workers who have no choice but to use their own vehicle as a means of daily transport. You intend to force citizens to move on public transport. But they do not care, however, about the increase in insecurity in public transport – for example, on many lines of proximity, such as R1, where there are virtually daily riots and aggressions – or about the deterioration of the quality of life that it entails for workers. You are more interested in imposing climate measures in front of the gallery; measures, as always, in which you lose the middle and working classes. They are measures that affect the popular classes and are, therefore, the great ones damaged. In a previous motion the report of the Banco de España of May 2022, "The Spanish economy in the face of the climate challenge, which indicates that it is precisely the households with the least income, those with the most members, those in which there are people from thirty-five to forty-five years old or those located in rural areas that are going to be most affected by climate policies and the green transition. At another point they talk about active, long-distance mobility, and developing cycle and walking paths. This seems very good to us, but as long as the creation of these lanes is not done at the expense of reducing the ordinary roads of road traffic. Do not do as Mrs La Colau has done with the support of the PSC in Barcelona, which has turned the city into an intransigent city, in the most crowded city in Spain. And I don't say it, says the digital magazine of DGT: Barcelona has become the city with the most traffic jams in Spain in 2021, in which drivers spend an average of eighty_y_five hours in traffic jams, twenty-two per cent more than the rest of the average of Spanish cities. A real hell for all those who circulate through their streets, because of their persecutory mania of the car. In short, then, we will support all those measures aimed at ensuring the safety of road traffic. But if you are really concerned about this issue, we recommend two things: on the one hand, that you work with the competent state administration, such as DGT, and, on the other hand, that you stop criminalising private transport, because your obsession, your obsessive demonisation of the car, only brings chaos, circulatory collapse and a decrease in the quality of life for Catalan workers and families who do not use it by whim, but by necessity, to move around. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.77.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr. Xavi Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.78.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, from the outset, say that we will vote in favour of this motion, and that we will do so because we think that we need to explore all the measures that are intended to alleviate the left-wing situation and that they are doing so at a time when there is a growing and exponential situation of victims and deaths as a result of traffic accidents. That said, we pose an absolutely sceptical position with the setting of the motion and with the content for reasons that have already been expressed here at the Faristol, such as asking for the own party that you execute, the Government, the measures that you have already put in place that you will execute, or as to set up from within a series of policies that are structural planning, territories, transport, and that you should take care of the whole government. And once upon a time: in five months at the AP-7 there were so many dead as in all 2021, and in six of every seven fatal accidents there had involved a truck. Do we want immediate solutions? Does the Government want to apply immediate solutions? We see two very clear ones: the access of trucks must be regulated – and it must be done effectively and clearly – and the frequency and quality of public transport must be improved, and it must be done now. And that's what the government can do, and that, therefore, should be done. That said, the general consideration or as we see it from the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning: the only way to effectively reduce deaths in traffic accidents is to ensure a public transport network that is collectible, interterritorial, democratic and accessible to popular classes, and that is 100_per_cent public and non-polluting. And that means strategic planning, that means developing a mobility and a mobility model that is absolutely antagonistic to which it has so far been a priority. Therefore, we think that we need to stop putting pieces on a model that is obsolete, that we need to work on a change in the mobility model and that we need to place public transport and people's needs at the centre. That is why the honourable Member, Montserrat Vinyets, will make a thorough presentation, in the motion that follows, of a proposal respecting the railway network and public transport, and on the need – which is the key – for intervention, public planning, with a different model of mobility. In any case, a few points. Infrastructures and communication networks are strategic, and therefore must always be public and must be part of the city. It is necessary to reverse any privatisation process for both what it does to planning and for what it does to execution or maintenance. Second, as I said earlier, there is a change in infrastructure policy that puts the Pharaohic workers and those who are socially and economically deficient. I, above all, need to develop a public transport network to serve citizens and citizens. And that means betting for transport and goods with less externalities, because doing so also means avoiding accidents. That's why it says to the principle that the trucks are involved in six deadly accidents, and that also means changing this model. Therefore, it is necessary to promote railway networks and sustainable forms of mobility. I, at the same time, that the railway follows the backbone of the country's transport system, not only to connect Barcelona, but to connect the whole country and why it can be a real alternative to private transport. And that's how we get killed on the reels, and that's how we get dragged. Basically, we think that a global, integrated and country-visited rail investment program is essential, on the margins that the operator is Railroads or Renfe, and in which priority is given to investments that can generate more connectivity and passers-by. Since the CUP we think that this is the only way to capture the current mobility model, based on the private vehicle, and therefore also causes all this mortality, and that among many other externalities, such as indirect deaths by contamination, there is one very clear one, which is leftoverness on roads and highways. And a further example: why did the R4 reduce the frequency by 50_per_cent, these last weeks? What model is being fostered with this and how can left-handedness be fought on the reels? How can you fight the ambushes, how can you fight the accidents, if you are reducing the frequency to R4? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.79.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.80.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Well, from the Republican Left this young man presents himself, in which security is linked to the modes of transport, which we find necessary, interesting, and, therefore, that we thank and congratulate, right? First of all, what we would like to point out is the concept of security, which has been very linked to the reduction of accidentality, which we obviously share, but we also understand that we need to hear security linked to modes of transport of other ways, such as, for example, and above all, for what it does to salvation. And, therefore, such as air pollution, atmospheric pollution..., would allow us to reduce by the order of 3,700 deaths in the year to the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and the paper that the private vehicle has in the contamination, precisely in the production of deaths from air contamination. Also in the realm of security as to how to benefit, and therefore, as to reduce time spent on transportation, time in congestion, and therefore the uses of time, the importance also of how we manage transport to make use of time more efficient and a society with greater benefit. And this also has to do with a question of territorial equity, and therefore, in the end, also with all territories must be able to have access to different modes of transport in order to have a society with this welfare. Therefore, they understand the security of this broader perspective, let's see who are the modes of transport that make it easier for us to gain security in all these senses. And it's obvious that there's one that harms us, that it's the private vehicle. And, therefore, the approach which the motion makes, and which we share, of the need to bet on public transport, on collective transport, to the detriment and, therefore, on reducing the private vehicle, therefore, obviously we would vote in favour, as it could not otherwise be, as we would also vote in favour of the majority of points of the motion. To tell them also that when we plant modes of transport, it is obvious – and has already come out in interventions that have preceded me – that who has the competence to implement measures that favor a change in modes of transport is precisely one of the departments that is not there – in fact, there is no one, is there not? However, in any case... –, to which the inquiry was not addressed, which is that of Territori. And, therefore, here too, it is a little surprising how, from a department of the Generality, it is an inquiry to its own councillor, but with measures that in reality everyone knows affect another councillor. But it's the same. In any case, what we're really interested in is knowing..., or we'd be interested in knowing what Mr. Puignero would say about some of the questions that are raised here. Why phrases practically literal to which a server has been able to express to the Commission of Territories asking the Lord Powered – such as, for example, that the policy of raising the wagons without limits and that the capacity of the road network is not the right one – so they are not sure, and it is said that if we are against the progress..., that we are against everything, right? Just to say that we don't have to put any more carts on the reels, and, in change, I guess this isn't going to happen to you right now. But, in any case, the Generality's assumptions have incorporated some of these measures, all the more so than we have just made and achieved through the agreement of assumptions is just to bet on another mode of transport, which is that of the train, and to make Catalonia really a country of trains not only in the metropolitan area, but in the immediate vicinity of the country, with all the investments that we have agreed. In any case, apart from these general considerations, also in relation to the pandemic, which we believe we need to understand as an opportunity not only to change modes of transport, that it is true that what has produced is a reduction in public transport for the benefit of private transport... but, in change, there is an opportunity that we believe we have not taken advantage of enough and that we have to see what is being planted here, that is the possibility of moving people. And so, at the end of the day, we'll end up with safer and less polluting mobility, too, if we can move 'em as society does. And so, here we do believe that the pandemic could have opened up an opportunity for us, with the encouragement of teletreball and the reduction of mobility needs, right? But in any case, we do share that look. Then you make a series of concrete proposals, most of which we share, which you want to see with intelligent measures in different areas. It is true that in some areas we would certainly be much more ambitious, but in any case, we will have time to propose and debate, for example, everything that does in the field of cycling and how to ensure the safety of cyclists and cyclists in our lives. And, therefore, we believe that here there is a lot of margin, a lot of recourse to advance in safety, in the field of cycling, right? And the other question that you also find and that we share is the need to bet on supporting the municipality, because at the end many elements of road safety and of changing the modes of transport have to see how we build our towns and cities, how we adapt them, how we facilitate these types of mobility, and therefore the need for the Government of the Generality to also collect the municipal area, especially the small municipalities, but also the media and the large ones, isn't it? , because they can hard to term active and secure mobility policies. In any case, therefore, we appreciate the motion presented, share it practically in its totality and vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.81.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández continued to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.82.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, this young man presents, therefore, an amplification, in short, list of measures of prevention, protection, coordination with the municipalities... These, which are more skeptical, the truth is that they do not go deeper, but, as they have a good attitude, the truth is that it is difficult to say that they are not, and consequently we will vote in favour, and there are a few. Those we can't give support to are those who dig deeper into the evil obsession you have to suppress any type of freedom of choice for people at the time of deciding how they are moving. It is true that the public authorities can have a tendency, therefore, to encourage a certain type of transport, but respecting a fundamental question and that they will never be able to avoid, much as they want to turn Catalonia into the Xina of bicycles: in the end, people get up every morning and have to make a free decision on how it is soft, and that is indisputable, and they have to make a free decision. And I think that, I insist, doesn't have another way. The other question we cannot support is the hypocrisy with which they refer to the issue of motorways. It turns out that you have been leading the campaign for a long time, "Catalonia without tolls, with one exception, that it is the C-32, that it is its own, that it is the most expensive in Europe, and that they keep it and want to keep it, right? And the truth is that the announcement of the suppression of the tolls was made in 2018. The Foreign Minister of the Serna did so. Haven't you had enough time to plan what you could spend a while freeing your tolls? I think they've had more than three years to do it. So now it's not a complaint of things that they had to do to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.83.0	Thank you very much. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, the deputy of Esquerra Republicana, Mr. José Rodríguez, once again holds the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.84.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the director of the Català de Trànsit Service, Ramon Lamiel, and the secretary general of the Interior Department, who accompany us, and apologize... who also come on behalf of the councillor. And I'm starting by thanking the topic of the papers to the groups they have not proposed, but also to the departments, because this is a young man who has put the same departments back. He has tried to bring to the limit, from the support groups of the Government, all the capacity that a department has to make commitments. And I also want to thank them, because they have made it easier for us to reach agreement with the Group, above all, Socialists and Together, which have made statements. And also thank all the items, both Junts and PSC, because they're constructive. And I want to value one in concrete terms, which the Member did not mention, but I think it is important, that it is the implementation of the Catalan strategy of the bicycle. This has greatly enriched our document and increased the government's commitment. I've enjoyed negotiating more. I've found some items missing from some groups. And it's good to come to the Faristol, say and make proposals, but the register of papers, so sometimes it makes it easier to enrich the place in a more constructed environment. But there has been a thought that has not given little or to negotiate, that is, there are declarations of war that have more esteem and more ability to dialogue than the thought that has made us Citizens. It is clear that in this hemisphere we have climate change negators and we also have mobility negators. Point. It's here. I mean, there's no safe and sustainable mobility if we can all take the car. It's here. And that's what freedom of use is: if we all take cars, there is neither safe nor sustainable mobility, and, in fact, there is no mobility; there is congestion. And one more thing: there's an income tax. Lower-income people have lower access to the private car – that's it – and they are, moreover, the ones who suffer the most from the consequences of the climate change and the ones who suffer the most from the contamination. Betting on the private car when you say you're defending the working classes... it's all the opposite: you want them to die. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.85.0	All right. So we'll start now voting on the motions we discussed this morning. As you know, the texts of the motions that we are voting on incorporate the drafts and the compromises that have been accepted. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action (continuation)]] [[302-00145/13]] We begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government about the consequences of policies applied in the field of climate action. We begin by voting points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10. The vote begins. These points received 14 votes in favour, 114 against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 11 votes in favour, 117 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 11 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on points 7, 8, 9 and 11. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 19 votes in favour and 114 votes against. And finally, we vote on the 10 a.m. point. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved, with 19 votes in favour and 114 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into access to basic services in the rural world (continuation)]] [[302-00147/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into access to basic services in the rural world. We vote points 1, 2, 4... [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.86.0	If I didn't make a mistake, we would also vote together on point 7.c, and we would ask for a separate vote from that point 7.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.87.0	Okay. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He's already separated. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I was already separated, yes. Now we're voting points 1, 2, 4, all 5 except point 5.f, and all 7, except 7.c and 7.e. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So the vote begins. These points have been approved, with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now for point 5.f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 128 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. We're voting points 6.a, 6.c and 6.d now. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point 6.b now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 127 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now on point 7.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 128 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies (continuation)]] [[302-00146/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies. We start by voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for the heading of Point 2. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on points 2.b, 2.h and 2.j. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 116 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for the second quarter point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 19 abstentions. We now vote on point 2.g.1. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 108 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on points 2.g.2 and 2.g.3. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 108 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 16 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 108 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. Point 2.i_is approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now on 2.k. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.l. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 108 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on points 2.m, 2.n, 2.o and 2.p. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 117 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on points 2.q, 2.r and 2.s. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 108 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 5 abstentions. We vote for point 2.t. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. And, almost out of the dictionary, we vote point 2.u. [[Rialles.]] The vote begins. The alphabet... This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 108 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 16 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 4. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into business investment (cont'd)]] [[302-00149/13]] Let us proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on business investment. Let's start voting... yes, Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.88.0	For a separate vote on points 3.b, 3.d, 3.f, 3.h, 4.c and 2.a. So, the first ones I said – 3.b, 3.d, 3.f, 3.h, 4.c – can go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.89.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.90.0	I, then, the 3.d bis, 3.d ter, 3.i and 4.b together, too, can go, and the 2.a. I'm sorry, we didn't get here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.91.0	Thank you. We had a vote on point number two. You're second. [[Pause.]] Back up, all right. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martin White.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.92.0	President, I do not know whether to ask for a separate vote on all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.93.0	So let's get going. We'll vote all the points separately, because... see. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's start, then, by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 64 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 17 abstentions. Let's vote point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 102 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 12 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. Point 3.c_is approved, with 72 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 45 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now on the 3.d bis point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting now for the 3.d point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 14 votes against. We're voting now on point 3.f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now for point 3.g. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now at 3. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 112 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 1 abstention. We're voting point 4.a now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 72 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 42 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions. We're voting now for point 4.d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 64 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 53 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 4.e. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 64 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 53 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into road safety in relation to modes of mobility (continuation)]] [[302-00148/13]] And finally, we move on to the vote on the motion following the question to the Government about road safety in relation to the modes of mobility, which we would also vote for point and letter for letter. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 19 against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour and 47 abstentions. We're voting the five-a-point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. That point was approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 130 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point has been approved, with 132 votes in favour and one person who does not vote. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. That point was approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point number 17. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for the 17-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now on the 17th ter. The vote begins. That point was approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting the 17 quater point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. We're voting 18th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 106 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting 18b point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the 18.c. The vote begins. That point was approved, with 133 votes in favour. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.94.0	Let's resume the session in the seven-point order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies]] [[302-0150/13]] With the motion following the question to the Government on the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. And he has the word to make the presentation of Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.95.0	Good afternoon. I hope they've all eaten well. [[Rialles.]] And we're talking about the young lady. Well, it's been 15 days, 15 days from the interrogation to the police station, when cryptocurrencies have not ceased to be news. In one_month, the value of the bitcoin, one of the more than one-thousand cryptoactius in use, goes from more than $47,000 to $28,667. The National Audience has opened an investigation into a presumed pyramidal scam with cryptocurrencies: more than three thousand affected, a 50_million fraud, which could exceed 100_million more, according to several investigators. The president of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, carries out an interview against digital divides: "They are not worth it, they are not based on res, the president warns. It insists that the disconnection of the citizenry of the functioning of this market and of the risks allows them to lose the realized investments and bring them to disappointment. And it's a policy: "Cal regulation, it's a policy to keep people from speculating about it. In 2021 a total of 8,600_million euros ended up in the hands of hackers. And so the news reminds us that the bitcoin is being used in money laundering operations. We could go on. And we therefore confirm the warnings that we placed in the inquiry. And that's why the reason we're here today, once known and diagnosed the problem, poses, urges government action in relation to cryptocurrencies. This debate has a lot to see with the later reflection that the adviser would do to us on the day of the inquiry– thanks, counselor, to be you here–; he linked with the later reflection that he would do to us: "The blockchain technology has great abilities of many fields of economic and social life, in production and distribution, in health, in education. Okay. But it must be used to generate changes that do not generate instability or risk, and so did the counselor. We can't be reacting to the technological advent, it's clear. Opening doors to the technological and social advent, yes, but technology and its use are never neutral. Technology cannot be an excuse for weakening social or labour rights, as we see every day in the so-called "economy of plataforms", in the sectors of the riders or in the workers of the world, where the potentialities of technology serve to band right, introduce new forms of labour exploitation, to mediate without rules or controls. Therefore, we must be curious about the technologies that can introduce double discrimination, exclusions or manipulations. The algorithms are not neutral, they introduce politics, and we cannot fail to be beautiful with uses that configure a political and social reality every democratic moment, as happens when they are used in certain opacity, anonymity, deregulation and lack of controls. That is why the motion urges the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, to make concrete commitments and political and social responsibility to promote practical, studies, reports, controls so that the use of technological potentialities is put to the service of democratization and social, economic and environmental improvement. We know that the regulation of cryptocurrencies goes beyond the powers of self-government; they are located in part in Europe – already working there – they are located in part in the State – they are working there – but the Government of Catalonia should use the margin of political action of its own. For this reason, we need to get to work to ensure the maximum information to the citizenry in relation to the dangers involved in using cryptocurrencies as if money were processed; that it controls advertising, especially misleading advertising, that it does not more than claim potential seekers to participate in a pyramidal logic or gambling, and that it controls especially that address to minors of divour years, that are the most dangerous they have. But the Catalan government and administration must also be clear in the use they can make of these digital acts. Call a compromise of clear renunciation of your use. Acts based on lack of transparency and anonymity in their intermediation, highly volatile acts that are not supported in any real value cannot be currency in the hands of governments. Therefore, we also need to guarantee this. But we also want to put an end to the opacity of the Centre Blockchain in Catalonia, which seems more like a public platform to promote private business than an area where the participation of the organised society is directed towards a socially and economically responsible user of a technology with great potential, which promotes good practices and disincentives to perverse uses. That from the government is old because the existing technological potentials do not vacate to the detriment of democratic values, transparency, guarantees, participation. We cannot believe that a digital currency that is presented as a tool of decentralisation and democratization, but that promotes from opacity anonymity, estafa, speculation, whitewash and capital flight as an element of social progress. As long as the governments get old and act, control and rule. And that's the object of our young lady. All the more, and thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.96.0	Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.97.0	Thank you very much, President. Advisors, deputies, deputies... Cryptocurrencies have acquired in a few years a very remarkable relevancy in economic terms, but also in sociological terms. In order to frame this statement, it is only necessary to refer – and, in fact, it was already mentioned in the inquiry debate – to the volume, the value of the actions in cryptocurrencies prior to the beginning of this cryptocrash in which we are living. In fact, the valuation of these actions had reached around 2,4_billion euros, i.e., a volume equivalent or comparable to the domestic product of a state with France. Therefore, the magnitude of these acts can be compared perfectly, in this sense. And, therefore, from here we can derive and extremise the conclusion that we are ahead of a volume with a potentially risk from the systemic point of view at the global economic level. For what it does to the phenomenon from the sociological point of view, cryptocurrency..., the sector's analysis places the volume or percentage of population that it has invested in cryptocurrency around the dotze_per_cent in Spain. We have to talk about analytics based on questions, since the opacity of this market makes it impossible to have real data. And a doze_per_cent also situates the phenomenon in a very important relevancy area, as I said, from a sociological point of view. The motion submitted by En Comú We can state the need to address this situation. And we fully share the need, and we share the proposals of the motion's accord. It is essential to make – and I refer to some of the elements very quickly of the agreements of the motion – in knowing the risks inherent in this product, to advertising respect cryptocurrencies, to the prevention of addictions, to the effectiveness of tax mechanisms, to regulate caixers and to address the environmental impact linked to the sector. In short, while some may be able to generate some urticaria at this term, we are talking about the need to regulate. Cryptocurrencies have been born and raised, in fact, to cover disruptive technologies such as DLTs or, in concrete terms, one of its forms, such as blockchain technology. One of the characteristics of cryptocurrency, not necessarily of these technologies, and which has been one of its most important attractions or revolutions in the field of cryptocurrency, has been the anonymity and fact of being out of state control, often presenting itself as a reference of more liberal liberalism, out of that control. It was said that more horizontal, even more democratic, systems were developed, and that someone raised them to the transformative potential that technology has on governance, political organization and ideologies. In practice we find ourselves again with an expression of a pulse as human as it is the wish for the win. The exacerbation of this pulse has brought us, in relatively recent times, to a long sequence of speculative cylinders, from the first, the famous tulips of the Low Countries, until this later, with cryptocurrencies. This brings us, I insist, to the need to regulate economic relations. This regulation does not relate to an ethical issue with respect to the gain, such as a bad thing or a king of it; nor, or not only, to the individual protection of persons before the risks, but also to the protection of the community joint before the risks taken individually. The crisis, the situation, the cryptocrash in which we are located at this time can cause – we are not free from the risks that we can cause – effects on the conjunction of the economy, of the real economy. The extreme in the market of operators, the operators of the system finance, the rich effect, a doze_per_cent of people affected by this situation, can cause the rich effect, an affectation of the aggregate demand as a consequence of this effect, or the joint effects on the system finance. We do not know what magnitude the volume of assets the ordinary financial system has at these times in cryptocurrencies, and what may be the level of affectation of this brutal loss of value that in the last weeks there has been. It is, therefore, a matter of regulating to favor – and the adviser mentioned it in the later inquiry, at the debate of the inquiry – the productive economy before or after the speculative economy. We have to regulate, control, ban, I would say, these risks or these impulses of what was called "popular capitalism," popularized by the British Prime Minister, Mrs Thatcher, encouraging the people's conjunction to invest in risk areas, probably not so good for non-experts and, therefore, taking on this type of risk. So, finally, second, we also collect the prohibition of cryptocurrency operation in public administrations. We must avoid any kind of adventure or hearing in this area, and seek global regulation at the three levels of the Administration of the European Union, in order to bring about a _marc of financial stability, security and efficiency, fair competition, a monetary order, monetary sovereignty of the European Union, also at the level of Spain, and where it is close to us at the level of Catalonia; regulation with interdependence of agreement with the world in which we live. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.98.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, has the word the deputy Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.99.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable counselor, deputies and deputies... well, today the commons are presenting us with a motion on cryptocurrencies. We've accepted many points; we've handled and traded almost all the other points. There's only one discrepancy. Therefore, there was a pleasure, once more, with Congressman Joan Carles Gallego, also with Lluís Salvado and Congressman Riba, so agree easily, because we share the diagnosis and many of the solutions. Deia Plato 2,500 years ago that the poor came from the decline of the rich, that mass often came from the multiplication of desires. And, certainly, it's all made up, it's almost all made up, and speculation and speculative bubbles, badly, too. In the case of cryptocurrencies, the lack of regulation and supervision has already attracted all sorts of smokers. And unfortunately, reality has always been very hasty and ahead of regulation. And, in this sense, we agree with the diagnosis: to supervise, to regulate. We agree with what Mr Riba said: the systemic risk to the system as a whole is greater and, therefore, as we are acting, right? There's a lot of smoke coming in. At the professional level, brokers and custodians with reliable or directly fraudulent infrastructure. At the particular level, every canton there is a brother-in-law who says that he has made great fortunes with crypto-inversions and that he unwisely engages his confidence in doing the same. Cryptocurrencies, therefore, should be treated fiscally, with any other act of financing. Even more, they are highly risky and volatile. So, therefore, we should be extremely curios. And, of course, there are a thousand emesian cryptocurrencies that are traded all over the world, but not all of them are the same. It's not the same bitcoin or Ethereum as HelpCoin. Therefore, in this sense, there are people who say that ‘crypts can end up having zero value, as the President of the European Central Bank told Davos. But it increases the amount of bitcoins and ethers in institutional investor balance sheets, and this is a reality that will hardly go away. Cryptocurrencies have been profitable in speculative terms, because they have had a very high and long revaluation wave, but they have also become popular in many countries where tax and monetary authorities have manipulated conventional currencies. And so, for example, in high-inflation South American countries, their citizens use them mostly as a tool to defend against inflation and against the fiscal will of a mass state that is often predatory, rather than as a means of paying for illegal activities, which is also not there, but it is not the majority of cases in these countries. Thus, for example, in very inflationist countries, like Argentina or Venice, bitcoin is a refuge before the constant loss of value of weight and bolivard. Even so, many people convert their wages into bitcoin immediately, so they charge it, preferring its high volatility to the persistent loss of purchasing value of their legal tender currency. What differentiates bitcoin, however, from the rest of the actius – and here too much of its main advantage – is that it cannot be confiscated or seized, and this is not a minor fact. And also, for example, cryptocurrency technology, blockchain, has clear advantages. Transactions between two users are safe, reliable, impossible to falsify, they are inexorable. It's a cheap, fast technology that guarantees anonymity. Then he was talking about mining, too. This sector is the first interested in serving renewable energy, and is making great investments to lie down on this goal. This industry, however, will end up leaving and settling in those countries that give it the welcome and, above all, that resolve quickly the bureaucracy they carry. And I would very much like that Catalonia was a country, in this sense, quick and agile, flexible, that you did not lose investments that could come in this sense. In fact, the revolution in Catalonia that we have is that of the Administration? I ask a question, and I leave a topic that today does not touch, but, let's say, to think about it among us. Finally, it's true, cryptocurrency doesn't have a support, some actions behind it like central banks are behind the euro and the dollar. They do not generate profitability or utility, as do stock exchanges, public debt and housing. And we also have to tell the city that cryptocurrencies are still a long way from being money. The most important function of the money is whether it is a reserve or a value deposit. And, in this sense, the key question, when do you ask someone you know or greet, or friend, or family member« do we have to invest in cryptocurrency? , is..., the counter-question is: "Would you accept to collect your wages in bitcoins? The mayor of Miami says yes, but I, who come from the Ribagorça, say no yet. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.100.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.101.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, as much as we share most of the proposals that are being put to the judge, and some, as has been said, we have dealt with them, I would also like to make some reflections on the merits of the matter, as have some of the companies that have spoken. Today, in the world, as Congressman Tremosa commented, there are 10,000 cryptocurrencies, 1,600 of which are cooked. During 2020-2021, they multiplied their value by thirteen, and today they represent the u percent of global financing activities. I, at the level of the Spanish State, transactions in cryptoactium in 2021 increased up to 4.8_percent of gross domestic product – 57,000_million euros. And, according to Finder index, as referenced, twenty percent of the spans between divided and twenty-four years ago have cryptoactiums. States like El Salvador have adopted bitcoins as the legal tender currency with the aim of reducing bank commissions on dividends that Salvadoran workers working abroad send to their country from other countries like Russia or Cuba. Use cryptocurrencies to avoid sanctions imposed by the West, while other countries at other extremes, like Xina, ban them in a drastic way. And in the middle of the way, the vast majority of the world's countries, which try, as they can and slowly, to advance in their regulation. MIT economist Daron Acemoglu predicts that cryptoactiums have come to stay, and describes their success in five factors. In the first place, for his political narrative, for a certain childish liberalism. Second place, because they are a suitable space to develop illegal activities. It is estimated that fifty per cent of the related transactions are linked to money laundering, fraud, fraud or other crimes. In the third place, because the senyortge, the benefits of creating a currency are distributed in these two thousand private currencies and, therefore, is no longer state monopoly. In fourth place, for a certain techno-optimism of the present time. And, in five places, for a desire to get rich quickly. Blockchain technologies that support cryptoactiums are reference elements now as they are now in the field of technological innovation, decentralised finance. They have many aspects of interest, bring more efficiency, lower transaction costs. But surely today we are not here to discuss this, but we are about to discuss the important risks that cryptocurrency creates for the citizenry. Risks arising mainly from three factors: from its volatility, as already explained; from the difficulty of public control over illegal activities; and, in the third place, from its huge impact on climate change. A few details. As pointed out to the motion, you need to send caution messages to consumers for the high risks of cryptoactium. We've seen the bitcoin fall recently. We also wanted it in 2014, a quarter of its value. Other cryptoactiums have lost practically all their value these past few weeks, and the Government of El Salvador has seen how the debt will rise to forty per cent of its nominal value. And it should be noted that the eighty-four percent of cryptoactiums are not collected by traditional acts. And this, added to the lack of regulation of service providers, has caused a multitude of pyramid-based staves. I, for another band, obviously worry about the high emissions to the atmosphere associated with cryptoactius mining, resulting from the computational cost of certain verification protocols. The current consumption of cryptoactiums is comparable to the entire state of Sweden. I'm done. In the face of a global phenomenon like this, global responses have to be given, and there are many organizations at the international level that are already working for regulation, to generate oversight mechanisms. As you know, the European Commission presented a proposal for the regulation of the cryptoactius market in September 2020. States like Germany, France or Italy have already adapted their legislation to minimize risks. And we are ahead of an attempt, ultimately, to privatize monetary policy, under a decentralizing make-up, modernity and techno-optimism, but the consequences we have seen, these last weeks, on a local scale, on many small investors. And, therefore, it seems to us very well that it is proposed, that we propose from this Parliament the impulse of measures specially addressed to protect the citizenry from the risks caused by cryptoactiums. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.102.0	Then, after this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.103.0	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, almost everything has been said about what has happened in recent weeks, in recent weeks, about cryptocrash, which, in short, now everyone has expressed an important, let's say, interest in what has happened, isn't it? : the collapse of bitcoin, the disappearance of even some coins and, well, many people have lost a lot of money – they had also earned it previously. And it cannot be said that the one who did not want to be informed was not informed. Information there is, on the internet there is; information no, information to the cube. That is, the person who has taken those risks, within his personal responsibility, and has decided to invest in these types of assets, which are indeed highly volatile, took risks and lost the money. True, they have said it here before: they are assets characterized by strong volatility, they present serious risks of liquidity and cybersecurity, they are not regulated, they do not guarantee or are protected, they are offered over the Internet globally, it is common for their issue to exceed different national jurisdictions, and their ability to circumvent taxation is infinite. Therefore, we are faced with a very specific financial product and very difficult to regulate, which is precisely what we are talking about here today, is it not? It has been tried to regulate the central banks, the world's main economic decision-makers over the past few years, without success. Why? Because, as they have also said today – the disadvantage of speaking the fourth or fifth – blockchain technology makes control over users, doesn't it? Anonymity is total, and identifying the author of such transactions is virtually impossible. Therefore, fighting against these types of assets is really difficult. Many investors have wanted to escape the faucets of predatory states, in fact, in search of better returns, in search of lower taxes, and also in order to avoid the depreciation of many of the currencies of their respective countries. This crypt, therefore, is certainly a further manifestation of human nature in a technological way, which also escapes the human desire for control, is it not? Well, here's the thing, but we're where we are. By its very nature and by the global reach of this phenomenon of these cryptodiversas, the debate here is a waste of time. It is absolutely sterile that here today, from a regional parliament, we are trying to ban, hinder, regulate, discuss cryptocurrencies and the hunch of the past few weeks. I already know that En Comú Puerde, therefore, likes this kind of debate about ecorresilient, inclusive, sustainable and very holistic materials and such – it is very well – but it is that in life from time to time it is convenient to be located, right? , i.e. to know where one has one's feet anchored. I believe that the international community and global bitcoin investors care about a radish sovereign what we say here today on this issue. Man, we can say we're gonna regulate it and we're gonna change. Hey, let's not fool ourselves, let's not deceive the citizens; let's not ask the citizens to be informed, and from here we're going to promise them that from now on we're going to try to regulate we don't know what, because it's impossible – it's impossible. I therefore, at last, will vote against this issue. But why? Not because we do not see that we have to try to regulate this issue if we can, but it is impossible. At most we agree that campaigns, let's say, of information, information that is left over on the Internet, right? Of course, we, from here, will not be able to influence the cryptocurrency market. And we're doing... well, we could talk here, hang out, about regular Kuala Lumpur mountain goat ecosystem and we'd have the same success. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.104.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.105.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... this morning the government wasn't there. We will not talk about Kuala Lumpur, we will talk about a reality that affects thousands of people in Catalonia, that has affected many people and that can affect many. That's all it's worth talking about. Many things have already been said about the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies, of which you suppose, but we wanted to share some reflections; some may be repetitive with what has already been said. But the ideology"crypt" emerges or has emerged as a new common sense assumption of this era of capitalism in the digital age. And now it seems that this cryptic ideology is the common sense, and we've seen what the risks are, the dangers, and what it's supposed to be. Everything about the solid technological infrastructure seems to be leaking into Ethereum's liquid; everything about the solid technological infrastructure, such as cables, data centres, 5G communication networks, xips or semiconductors. In fact, in a similar way, it is what happens to the political institutions that came out of the crash in 2007 lifetime debts and that, unable to serve as legitimate actors, are losing their centrality to the detriment of promises about decentralisation. And, in fact, it's about the ideology of crypt as a decentralisation tool, when in the background what we see is that this doesn't happen, that what is being converted, or what it's serving and what this block chain serves, right? , is, therefore, to destroy the last frontier towards the hypermerchantilization of human life. And it's used for this, to deepen in which is capitalism and the will to market all aspects of our lives. Cryptocurrencies are not a decentralizing or democratizing force against the sociotechnical imaginations that try to impose the defenders of these technologies, from the neoliberal to the liberating. And that's the premise, and that's what it's about to regularize, move forward, and push forward because central banks intervene, interdicting it as a means of paying public administrations, but also intervening in bitcoin mining and ending up with the capacity of banks to work with portfolios that use these acts. And that's the premise, because, although some people use it, they argue it as a decentralizing and democratizing way, it's not; it's quicker on the contrary, because the centralization of infrastructure and the organization of these systems is deeply tangled and intertwined in the underlying social structure. And in the background, it's a logic of power distribution. And, as it reproduces this logic, we understand that it is one more variant of the system, which, as always, is reinvented, but above all it is reinvented so that it can continue to subsist with the same parameters as always. And this is also looking at the reality of the blockchain phenomenon in the State. Some examples haven't come up, have they? But we see that there is a progressive formation of a business ecosystem around this blockchain technology in the State. And if we look at who's behind us, we always end up seeing the same business as usual. So, that's what I used to say, isn't it? Therefore, this need to remain permanently in places of power. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the whole House. We understand that it is a first step, that it is an indispensable first step, but that it requires a much deeper debate and that we should talk about it much more deeply, because the pandemic has only made it more acute and that in the logics of the blockchain we have also ended up delegating our health and our digital education to Google and Microsoft, and they have presented themselves as a solution; so, that is much deeper, this whole issue. A little while ago, when we were talking about the bill on the state floor, we were talking about technofeudalism, and here's a little bit of that logic, too, which was intertwined with this. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.106.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.107.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your presence here. Of course, the reason that today brings us the group of commons has, to our mind, interest, above all because there is a question. I think he's planning on today's debate on liberalism or more statist forms of setting up the State. And, effectively, from our liberal position, I would like to stop at a point on a question. Liberalism does not arise only from scepticism before the State, but, unfortunately, also from scepticism before human nature. And that justifies our vote in favour of most of the points of this motion of the commons. Because, in terms of liberal theory or political theory, what is obvious is that we have to accept that, while there are many people, many citizens who are good by nature, we cannot fall either into the myth of the good rescue of the Rosseaunia. And from this point of view, it has to be assumed that, as far as cryptocurrencies are concerned, all that is to be seen with cryptocurrencies and trade, with this formula of payment, so it is obvious that it is likely to fall into pyramidal scams, into all sorts of corruptions that, logically, as a society constituted in a democratic state, we have the obligation to try to mitigate, if not the perverse effects of these perverse conducts of human beings. Deia James Madison, one of the authors of The Federalist Papers, one of the authors of The Federalist, that if men were angels not caldron governments, no government would be necessary– and when said « government Madison what it means is « state. But, obviously, men are not angels, and this justifies and makes it necessary for there to be regulation, for there to be mechanisms that protect the social fabric that conforms to the assembly of the citizenry of a political community from the excesses of human nature. We insist on this skeptical view, if not, as to human nature, of distrust of exaggerated statism. And this..., it is obvious, therefore, that many of the positions in favor of cryptocurrencies are in the line precisely of misrepresenting the excess of statism, which we have often denounced, and we denounce an excess of statism, of pressure from the State, of interventionism from public administrations. And for us this, logically, is a threat to individual freedom, and we believe, from our point of view, if not, that states have oversized in the last few years. But we must continue to say that this young man seems very uncertain to us from the point of view of the demand that a public administration has to regulate itself precisely in order to avoid that the weakest ones can be object of stanzas or suffer abuse on the part of the powerful, already from the point of view of the state as from the point of view private, that there is also perversion in the private environment. Perversion is not the heritage of the public sphere, nor of the good, that neither, logically, is this something that is commonly accepted. On the other hand, we did understand a contradiction in the commons' motion, which is that, after I almost made a statement to the totality of cryptocurrencies, let's say, of this form of trade that are cryptocurrencies, they end up in two of the last three points..., they end up making a great deal of blockchain technologies. And until they're done, they have a lot of standing for their home when they say that "the possibilities of blockchain technology applied to the funded activity will be explored to facilitate the creation of a public investment bank and a public platform open service that everyone can access. There you go! We already have public banking here in a movement of the commons, which, logically, forms part of its ideari, of its doctrine, but that we are necessarily against it. And, above all, we find a huge contradiction between the impeccable criticism that is made at the length of the motion of the diffusion of these cryptocurrency, and then end up posing as the bulwark of the new public bank precisely the theory of what the blockchain is. Therefore, we will vote mostly in favour of this young man, from these two points which we have commented, which we find to be contradictory, from his point of view, and from our point of view, they end up feeling a clear contradiction in terms. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.108.0	So, finally, he has the word to pronounce on the papers Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.109.0	Well; so please the interventions, give thanks to the groups that have submitted papers. We were able to introduce some transaction; we were unable to introduce one of the joints which, moreover, was coincident with the settlement that the deputy of Ciutadans is now doing – nothing happened, and so on. Well, let me start with the "move the androids with the goats of Kuala Lumpur." Oh, I'm sorry, it was "the androids with the sheep. The boundary between the artificial and the natural, the decay of life and society, address the ethical problems of the androids. Go see Blade Runner; it's old, but it explains all that. Because I think it's important, what we're doing here today, huh? Today we are placing a local response to a global problem, and, moreover, we are incardinating it in the global response that the European Union is also making. We have detected a reality that affects citizens' rights: that the perverse uses of technology can end badly in social organization, can end badly in democracy and citizens' rights. And for this reason, the government must act: regulate, control, monitor, advertise, inform, avoid all the perverse uses and use the potentialities of technology in favour of citizenship and democracy. I can take it, too, remembering a few words from Màrius Sampere, who died four years ago today, huh? – the poet Màrius Sampere – who told us, ended a poem saying: « At the speed of the light / the light advances us / leaves us behind, / rock crystals, at the last time / of us. « At the speed of the light / the light advances us / leaves us behind. "At the same time, at the speed of technology, if governments, if political action does not act, technology can leave us in the right of citizenship, can generate exclusions and discrimination – we are seeing it too often. We are now using our political capabilities to introduce limits to the perverse use that this technology can have, which is affecting a lot of young people, a lot of citizens, who are fooled by misleading advertising in relation to, in this case, cryptocurrencies and these issues. We can do things; we can do them, at the limit of our abilities, and we can put in place others that do what they correspond to them. It is the object of the motion, and if we approve it, I think we should put in value that we in Catalonia are advanced in regulation and in the will of political action to respect. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.110.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will take a long time to get the money on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of a year of bad governance]] [[302-00151/13]] Let's move on to the dissette, which is the motion following the question to the Government about the balance of a year of bad government, which the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has presented. He has the word to make the presentation of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.111.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, today we bring to this plenary a motion on the bad government, on the first year of Mr Aragonès' bad government, in short, the umpteenth bad government since Arthur Mas decided to start the ignominious separatist process started in 2012, of which we have already been a decade, a decade lost in economic terms, a decade lost in terms of progress, a decade, in short, absolutely inane from the point of view of public policies and the development of Catalan society as an open and prosperous society in economic terms. That is why, since the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, we have tabled a motion in which we condemn this inaction, we also condemn the lack of political initiative, the lack of economic initiative; we promote, precisely, the promotion of initiatives aimed at the economic growth and development of Catalan society, the advancement of Catalan society as a society open to the world, open to the rest of Spain and with the aim of re-establishing itself as an economic engine of our nation. And, from this point of view, we ask all the parliamentary forces to support us, especially, logically, the constitutionalist parties, but we believe that there are elements that could be voted for by all the groups in this House. In this sense, it must be said that we have arrived these days at a time when the subject of language, the linguistic question, is once again absolutely in the candlestick, and the nationalist parties, together with the PSC, have reached an agreement to try to draw lots, to settle the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent of teaching hours in Spanish. That is why, today, from this rostrum of the Catalan Parliament, I want to claim, I want to remind all those who from this Parliament have made the flag of the normal and absolutely legitimate use of one of the two languages of the Catalans: the Castilian. And I necessarily have to stop paying special attention or, rather, pay special attention to someone like Albert Rivera, one of our first deputies and the first president who had this party, who in this chamber normalized the use of the Castilian, while some of the parties in this chamber were tearing their clothes and taking their hands to the head. I want to claim to each and every one of the citizens' deputies, who, with their affection, with their effort, have been doing normal in this chamber what is already normal in the street, what has always been normal in the street in Catalonia, which is the harmonious coexistence between Catalan and Castilian. And that is why it seems to me that today is an important day, a good day to make that claim, both of Albert Rivera and Inés Arrimadas, and of Carlos Carrizosa, as well as of all those who, throughout all these years, have laid the foundations for the normalization of this Parliament with the use of Spanish as a language also to drive in this chamber. I also want to claim the effort of organised civil society in entities such as the AEB, such as the Catalan Civic Partnership, such as the Catalan Civil Society. Societies, associations, which have had real difficulties in opening up their way in the public debate, but which, thanks to a great effort and their help, have managed to normalize, I insist, in the public debate, what nationalism, with the cooperation of the party of the socialists, had completely removed from our public debate. I remember other elements such as, for example, the manifesto of the 2,300s, at the beginning of the 1980s, which have been described on numerous occasions in this chamber as little less than cryptofascists. And it seems to me necessary and fair to claim its role during all these years in Catalonia. That is why I would also like to say to Councilman Gonzàlez-Cambray, who yesterday came to say that Citizens were born to end consensus... he also said to end the Catalan language. No, Citizens were born precisely to normalize the social coexistence between Catalan and Spanish, to do the normal in institutions, to do the normal in schools, to do the normal in Parliament and, above all, to claim that Catalans have two languages, that we want an open Catalan society, an open and plural society, and that nationalism is the main stumbling block for this normalization of Catalonia. Furthermore, it seems to me that we have enough points in this motion that we are taking to the vote, which are points that we consider perfectly achievable for a majority of this House, and we hope that at least the constitutionalist groups will be able to join us in this motion. And, in any case, I will comment on the amendments at the time of amendments. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.112.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.113.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martín Blanco, we Catalans have two languages. The agreement reached yesterday will allow us to use the ones, allows us to use them in the educational field, but above all allows us to want the ones, which is fundamental for their use and, therefore, for social use, which is the pending subject in this country of the use of Catalan and Castilian. I would also like to inform you that, although we have tabled five amendments and you have accepted one, we will adopt some of the points that you propose in your motion, right? Because, moreover, our position on this year of government I think it was clear yesterday with the intervention of our spokesman, Alicia Romero, about what we think of this year of government. And, indeed, we share that it has not been good. But I would like to focus on point 2 of his motion, which says: 'Parliament declares that, in order to put aside the decadence to which the independence process has dragged all Catalans and which has done so much damage to our life projects, it is essential to close the social divide and restore centrality, the sense of reality and the notion that a government must govern for all, not just for its voters, to reintegrate Catalonia into the first division. And I have to tell you that, in order to be the second point, it has been quite hopeful, because you were writing, putting black on white, something that we have been demanding of the government and also demanding of its political formation: closing the social divide. And I would also like you to apply what you are asking for, because we have a feeling that you are not helping to close the social divide. What's more, sometimes we think they don't really want to close it. I am not saying this because of your proposals – I am not saying this because of your proposals. Sometimes I say it because of the tone they use, always bitter, always rough, a little short in some moments. Not only with the government, but also with the Socialist Group, which you always remember in your speeches, but also with the first one to come forward. And I don't say that especially for you, Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco. But you know that you have used this tone in which you are permanently angry with the world and with everything, right? And I will tell you that what helps to close the social fracture, which, in fact, has occurred in Catalonia and that some of us are gradually convinced to go closing or to want to close..., needs de-inflammation, to lower the volume, to moderate the tone, to listen and try to understand the other, to whom he thinks differently. And all that helps. And something that is not in conflict with the necessary strength in defending ideas from our opposition position is precisely that drop in volume and that moderation of tone. Promoting agreements with those who think differently to solve specific problems helps to close fractures. We have proposed forty-three agreements. We've managed to reach some, not all of them. We'll keep trying. And you, like me, know that in some of those agreements even you could be – even you could be. But their traditional sectarianism isolates them – isolates them – and makes them lose that centrality that you claim in your text. And from here we encourage you to join the great agreements. We invite you to build and thus regain the confidence that a part of the citizenry has lost in the political class, and that its political formation has suffered this loss of confidence in a strong way. And we believe that citizenship calls for great agreements, determination and efficiency in management. In their motion they referred to abandoning the empty chair policy – and we fully agree – that judicial decisions must be complied with – indeed – to promote vocational training, to prestige the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, to fight against the high level of bureaucracy. But I want to stop at point 24, because I think it exemplifies very well his will to remain in that constant division. You propose that the political leaders and independentist associations – only independentists – come together to do some kind of therapy where they recognize their mistakes and ask for forgiveness. And they ask Parliament for a very rare thing, which is that it considers it appropriate for parties – not the government, the parties – to do therapy. And sometimes, to keep this fracture open, really, you get clouded and make some proposals that are not even within the competence of Parliament. And against that you have rejected an amendment tabled by us where we find that the only way out of the current political situation is through dialogue, negotiation and the pact. And we urge the President of the Generalitat – the President of the Generalitat – to convene a dialogue table with parties with parliamentary representation – also his – to promote the agreement, to close, now indeed, the fracture that does not let Catalonia advance. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.114.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Congressman Joan Garriga has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.115.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, in this motion, in the first point, Citizens propose to recognize that separatism began with Artur Mas. And it is correct that the separatist political activism of the exconvergents began with this personal change of Arthur Mas. And now his heirs are Junts, and it is already known that converts are often more radical than usual – in this case, Esquerra. But separatism is fraught with the contest of several circumstances– and in that I think we do not agree –: with the exaltation of the difference as a bold weapon– is a classic of Catalan nationalism– ; with the claim that Catalans have only one language– we are living it also these days–; with the permanent demand for competences– we have been doing so for forty years– ; with the moral superiority of Catalan nationalism, which was expressed even in TV3 programs when I was young, ridiculed the Andalusian; with the lies about history – in this case, for example, the Eleventh of September, which was a war of succession and not of secession– ; with the concealment that the Catalans have actively participated in setting up our homeland, Spain, for five hundred years, and with the lie about a supposed fiscal balance that does not exist, because, as we have sometimes recalled, they pay taxes to natural persons, to legal persons, but they never pay the territories. That is, separatism is fraught with autonomy and pujolist. We share that separatism divides and fractures a lot, and add that, in order to overcome it, from VOX we consider that we must take the instruments out of its reach to keep doing theirs, dividing and confronting. And here comes our difference with Citizens. Avoid having media bought at your service with 300_million_euros of money from all Catalans, selling or closing – not transforming – TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, which are dedicated to generating hatred for Spain. And whoever wants to buy it. Close offices that insult Spain abroad – all, also that of Brussels – because the function of commercial offices can already be performed from the ministries of the State. Remove your clutches from the schools, that between the air of freedom in the Catalan school, that all educational models are respected and that Spanish can be present in the Catalan classrooms. To denounce separatism in all areas, because it breaks our coexistence, our history and limits freedoms and rights. To ensure that they do not blackmail, as they have done so far, the governments of Spain, both the PSOE and the PP, changing the electoral law and, of course, illegalizing separatist political formations. And, finally, it is solved by reversing the main cause of this situation, which is the autonomous state – and I understand that in this Citizens does not share this solution either – to bet on a new model with two fundamental principles. The second, decentralization: bringing the administration closer to the citizen – and this is the city council – so that it manages the competences, so that from the social services are the closest to the citizen. But, on the other hand, to regain equality before the law, in the provision of services and in fiscal matters, of all Spaniards. This equality is due to the fact that there is a law, both in tax matters and in the area of service provision – for example, in health and education – which is the same for everyone and does not depend on where you live or where you have your domicile. And we do support from the motion the holistic, cross-cutting bureaucratic reduction, the single window for businesses, tax reduction and, of course, superfluous public spending, the construction of social housing, the plan to address energy poverty, the reduction of waiting lists and support for vocational training. And, as the motion goes on record for a year of government and from the Parliamentary Group of VOX we cannot leave other matters that are not covered in the motion, so I take the opportunity to add other issues that for us have tarnished, and much, this year of government, as are the gender policy that it faces; the promotion of illegal immigration in all its proposals, in all its interventions; the promotion of occupation; the economic waste of Catalan taxes with those chiringuites that we consider..., whose role it could perform State institutions, such as, for example, the Sindic de Greuges or the Council of State Guarantees, which could exercise the functions of the Council of State, and, of course, the punishment of the most humble with climate taxes. And finally, in relation to the fugitive from justice, Carles Puigdemont..., miri, how more lluny, better. The further, the better. For the damage... that he has done to Catalonia and the Catalans. I, if you see..., if you come, you'll be tried and convicted as a thug. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.116.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.117.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Well, we're in front of a barroera youth, a barroera youth, as we're used to you, who expresses with this barroeria a lack of support for the people, for ideology, ideological freedom, and the Catalan feeling, which obviously we can't share. And I'll tell them we'll vote against it. It is obvious – and the whole hemicicle knows – that our political space makes a more than negative appreciation of this first year of government, but for reasons totally contrary to what you expressed. And we will vote against all the motion, even though there is some point that could have been saved; fears of health and education, which, while they are very generic and touch points that may have already been approved in other motions in this very House, the truth is that, barred in this barrage of cynicism and lack of support for the ideology of the Catalan people, for their institutions, for the people to whom their representatives voted, I think it is absolutely impossible to vote in favour of it. Now, I'd love to tell you something. I think you should study a little history. The long history of the years, the analysis of society and the thought of humanity..., it happened that there are many dissident behaviors and positions that are criminalized and that time later gives them reason. You are anchored in what would be a geocentric position, if we lock ourselves in, if we focus on the conflict of the 17th century, when Mr. Galileo Galilei was judged and criminalized for having defended that it was the Earth that turned around the Sun, and not the Sun that turned around the Earth. You know perfectly well that you're defending... you've been positioned in an absolutely anachronistic thought, in which you don't think there can be any change in the relationship model between Catalonia and the State. Imagine... thinking about this from Mr Galileo Galilei, that he was judged by the Inquisition because he had written a book... that sounds like it, doesn't it? We have Valtònyc, we have Pablo Hasel, because they write lyrics of songs are condemned. We have political representatives in exile because they have defended an idea of independence that is an absolutely legitimate idea, it is the defense of the right to self-determination to independence from Spain. It's legitimate. You are situated in a lying thought, in an absolutely anachronistic thought. They only think that after it was independent Flanders, in 1581, of Espanya, more than twenty countries have become independent. What's the matter, that Catalans can't wish to be independent and willing to be independent? Why should they be continually criminalizing this will, undermining our president in exile, the councillors and councillors in exile? This type of motion, when Catalonia is independent, when the Catalan Countries are independent and when there is a new relationship between the Catalan Countries and the State, when you read the texts of these motions that you have written, you will not feel a profound shame of having written these barbarities, of having adopted so much cynicism, so much less so than they think, think and yearn for Catalans and Catalans with absolute freedom to think about it, to think and defend it and with absolute legitimacy to fight to achieve it? I'd ask them to stop insulting and criminalizing us. Now we are in the 78th Regime, in the autonomic mark, which would be like the mark of the Inquisition of that time, in which no one could say that the Earth was..., that it was the Earth that revolved around the Sun. But this can change perfectly, as it then changed. And I stop making so many strange expressions, because strange expressions are what we do when we read some motions that we should be ashamed to write in the words they write. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.118.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.119.0	Thank you, President. Take advantage, because I have the counselor here today, to send her a very big hug and our condolences. I'm starting with the young man. I'll start at the end. Miri, we'll vote not for the whole show. And the Parliamentary Group of Common We can..., you know that I like to look at the motions pointed at me. But the truth is that the young lady is a species of Frankenstein. And I also said it the other day: it's that with opposition to what Citizens do in this Parliament I think it's a spell and I think the government is very lucky because it's absolutely easy to put them there. It gave the socialist spokesman that they surely have a problem of all. I agree. I also think they have a background problem, but background problem, huh? because some of the proposals I would say are absolutely invocable. It's twenty-five points, which, by the way, is a barrage of everything. I also stayed especially, I would say, impacted with point 24, basically because they say, not to the government, but to the independent political forces, which they have to do. I think the relationship between Esquerra and Juntes – I'm telling you – has no solution. [[The timer laughs.]] But in any case, it is not surprising that we dedicate a young man to saying what they are to do or how they are to relate. It's as if we in our own country invite them to make, to you, a reflection – I think it really suits them –: that they really start acting like a European Liberal party, that's what they say they are, and that, besides, they stop acting like..., right? , of the extreme right. Because in the end what happens in this Parliament is something that doesn't happen anywhere. That is to say, we would never see the European Parliament, for example, entering a joint parliamentary initiative into a liberal party with a party of the far right. That is to say, what you are making or will bring in a joint proposal to the Council of State Guarantees with the extreme right, this would never happen in the European Parliament; we would never want to share a political initiative with your representatives in the European Parliament together. As a matter of fact, I say, you have places where you govern, even with progressive and ecological forces. But, well, I guess this is already anathema, but they don't see any of the points that you want and what you think, for example, of climate or environmental policies at Catalonia level, do they? I, mirin, is that this government can be criticized. I believe that this government is a government that promised transformation and is installed in resignation; it is a government that goes between paralysis, the fruit of relationships, that have no solution, between Left and Together, and failed projects. If the problem is that some of these projects you share. They share the Winter Olympic Games; they share the expansion of the airport; they also share, for example, the Hard Rock project, which is certainly the biggest disruption we have at this time in Catalonia, which is building the biggest casino in Europe. These are the great projects that this government has, and it's a government that we suspect. If it's a government they suspect. Suspended in education. If we have a counselor..., and I said it these days: it's that Councilman Cambray is a problem for the Catalan school. If we're seeing the masters and the situation they have, all the complaints they make. The real problem with the Catalan school – I'm telling you – is not the language, it's not the use of the language. The real problem with the Catalan school is equal opportunities, it's segregation, it's the lack of reversal – surely, questions that you don't care about or occupy – are the barracks. That's the real problem with the Catalan school, and that's why I suspect Councilman Cambray. It's a government they suspect in sanitation. If it's easy to make opposition. It is a government that has the primary care completely unpacked, that is told by everyone; that the primary care teachers give up, the primary care teachers give up. It is a government that is causing Catalonia..., it is certainly an issue that you do not care about, but it is a government that is causing Catalonia that the mutuals deprived of salvation in only four years have passed from twenty-yield_per_cent to thirty-two_per_cent, in the words of its own advisor. If it is recognized by the Councillor of Salut, that this is the real privatization of Catalan sanitation. What happens is that neither do you worry them if sanitation is private or not private. Therefore, it is obvious that there can be opposition and it can be said in what they suspect the government. And the government suspects, for example, in environmental policy, what it means. It is not only that it does not advance in the transformation, but that it is developing projects that they do generate more winter effects, that they do not take into account in any case the climate emergency and that, moreover, Catalonia, for example, is at the forefront of the production of renewable energies from all the autonomous communities of the State. So, I ask you... I didn't write it in a young man's room or the one I write, and it's probably the government's room for reflection, but I think Ciutadans also has room for reflection, and it's very deep. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.120.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.121.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is, I was thinking of making another speech. In fact, I was going to focus on one of the points of this motion, but after the barbarities I have heard here from some groups, of course, I have to refer to them. And I will start with Mrs Sabater, of the CUP, who says that this motion is contrary to the ideology of the people of Catalonia. Look, you don't have the monopoly of the people of Catalonia. In any case, it will be contrary to separatist ideology, but the people of Catalonia are all, Mrs Sabater, and that is what they cannot stand. We're just as Catalan as you are, and that's what you can't stand. Spanish is also an official language in Catalonia and the common language of all Catalans, and that is what you cannot stand. And every time he comes here, he shows it. Because I don't know if it's been deliberate or if it's escaped because it's internalized, but no, no, the people of Catalonia don't have a single ideology. Let's see if it's clear to them at once and they'll stop arrogating rights that don't suit them. So, in any case, this motion will be contrary to the ideology of separatism, or to a sector of separatism that is very radical and that for years now, more than a decade, that is ending Catalonia, that is ending our opportunities and our rights as Catalans, that is a real shame. You've come here to talk about manners, about the good conduct you have. You're serious, educated, well-read people. It looks like the others, no; the others must be... I don't know, huh? Let you talk about education, you, when we saw people from the UPC, for example, say that you had to spit and cough on the face of the UME military... What education? What respect? What ways do the gentlemen of the UPC have to come here today to teach us lessons? It is a real shame, and it is a real shame that the Government of the Generalitat also falls on you, to rely on you, because we already know..., and we already know you. So no, we don't accept lessons of any kind from people who ask to spit in the army, when, by the way, they were here to help us in a pandemic. Shame would have to give you – shame. When I told the lords of Citizens that if when they look at the past they will be ashamed, apply it to yourself, because I think they have a lot to think about and a lot to be ashamed of. Another of the speeches with which I have also hallucinated – and I will say so now in a colloquial way and that everyone understands me – is with Mr Moreno's speech, forty_y_eight_hours from one of the betrayals that nobody expected. A few months ago I was at an event that organized the School of All where they explained the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent. There were testimonies from parents who had been fighting for many years in Catalonia to get their children to go to school in Spanish. It was also a very emotional act, the truth, because they are years of very much struggle, and there was the Socialist Party applauding, thanking the work of the entities, applauding a sentence, a sentence that you now want to mock with that law that you have pulled out of the sleeve, which, by the way, will serve you absolutely nothing. And you have also come here to present yourself as the most polite and the most moderate. Look, this isn't a story of good and bad, Mr. Moreno. What happens here in Catalonia is not a story of good and bad. What is happening here in Catalonia is a story of some gentlemen who, to keep in power, to cover their misery and to continue living as a king, invented the process. And the case is that you got into the car – you got into the car – because you have a government president who is willing to do anything and to kneel down and do whatever it is, at any price, to keep himself a few more days in the Moncloa. You, who are so polite, who have also come here to talk and shave the bronchic tone that some groups have, huh? Let's see, two days ago in the control session the president of the government calling « piolins to the National Police. It's just that they'd have to face shame. [[Greetings.]] National Police who came here to face us, to protect us – to protect us – Mr Moreno. Is that funny? Is it funny to you that I see him laughing? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What a shame! They threw stones at them, they threw steel balls at them. Do You Remember? Do you remember the agent of the Ivan National Police, whom they threw a steel ball at? It's a real shame, what you guys do here. Let them come and give lessons, sincerely... I understand that you are in a very complicated situation, I understand that..., I insist, I understand and I insist that you want to remain in power, but not at all costs; not on the basis of dragging the institutions of this country down the ground; not on the basis of a pact in exchange for anything; not on the basis of cheating the Catalans either, because you in election campaign deceived them. They didn't talk about pardons. They said here they were coming to save us from nationalism. Mr. Illa presented himself as the savior. [[Widow's remorse.]] That the only thing he has as a savior is the name. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With lies – with lies. If there's nothing more to see. This law that you have taken out of your sleeve... I, the president, be questioned and yelled at me from the seats, do you see that as normal? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know, it's just that, since you're so polite, so moderate, I'm surprised you yelled at me from a seat, Mr. Moreno. You're questioning me from the seat. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't know, I'm not asking. I'm just telling you – I'm just telling you –... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, nothing, if you want to have a dialogue here, we have it. I don't know the president if she has anything to say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.122.0	Mrs Roldán, I've put up with the time, but it seems to me that you were doing some very general questions that the deputies have answered. Therefore, conyeixi's in his speech and ended the time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.123.0	Oh, well, if from now on you can answer from the seat, I'll point to it. I didn't know, President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.124.0	I didn't tell him that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.125.0	I'm gonna have to scream a little bit, 'cause from upstairs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.126.0	I'll keep you in time so you can finish your speech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.127.0	Yeah, no, if you don't need it, if I have the speech more than finished. Honestly, that you have come here today to give lessons to others, to say that you are the most polite, to say that you are the most moderate... You can make the laws you want, of course, only more would be missing, you can agree what you want, only more would be missing, but don't try to sell us a motorcycle that isn't, and don't come here to tell us that you are the most fantastic and the most wonderful in the world. We'll see what happens in the next few days, but I'm telling you that, to those entities that were applauding a few months ago in an act, they're very angry, because this what you've done is not – it's not – what you told them at first or what you promised those Catalans who in good faith deposited the Socialist Party ballot in the ballot box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.128.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Rius has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.129.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... very quickly. Maybe they didn't come to give the face; what I'm sure they came is to break the face of a lot of citizens that we just wanted to vote in the polls peacefully. [[Greetings.]] In any case, today we find ourselves again with a citizen's movement that goes against everything and everyone, a text that looks like a reheated dish to the microons and made with twenty-five ingredients that no one connects to. They've taken over their outdated hits, with those who claim to be political from this Faristol, and they've recorded a text that's totally unchangeable so they don't absolutely build anything. But, in addition, we have discovered that they have intolerance to some of these ingredients, and I will mention some of them. Actually, look, with the first one, we could agree on a little bit. They say that Catalonia has a conflict and that it does not govern the state of law. Roundly certain. We're in prison, we're in exile, we're in espionage, we're having a systemic violation of phonenal rights to defend totally legitimate and democratic ideas. And, of course, there is no social fracture in Catalonia; what's there is a democratic fracture, and that's what you caused. Follow me. With this young man they pretend – and I quote textually – « to leave behind the decay that has spilled on us all Catalans and that has harmed our life projects. No, if they're right. The prison, the exile, the mass espionage have done much harm to political lives, to private lives, to institutions and, above all, to project Spain as a totally defective democracy. Of course, thirty-eight days have passed since the scandal of "Catalangate", and we have no credible explanation, beyond smoke curtains. The Kingdom of Spain is still stuck in its own key chains. And, in fact, in this case, they are talking about helping justice to clarify the truth, but they don't want to clarify anything at the board of inquiry. Do you know what's wrong with her? That you are doing politics through, above all, the judiciary. They want to win in the courts what the polls never hold them, and this can be done in Spain because there is no real separation of powers. More things. They say that judicial resolutions must be faithfully complicated for all. I think they're kicking Europe, where justice does make justice. Mirin, your MEP, Mr Vázquez, has been questioned this very week by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which said that he has had an impromptu attitude and a lack of impartiality as the chairman of the committee who processed the plea against President Carles Puigdemont and the Councillors Comín and Ponsati. That's what they should be ashamed of. This flat young man combined also says they don't want to make education an ideological tool. But if you were born precisely for this! It's just... if they defend linear and authoritarian models against models based on pedagogical criteria! We continue with more ingredients that do not digest well when they speak of tolerance to the phenomenon occupied. Mirin, the Social Rights Council has put forward proposals with the reservation of the twenty-i-five_per_cent of social housing for young people, or with the approval of the law of compulsory social logue, which has to help so many families and that it seems that many of you want to bring to the Constitutional Court. In the matter of salvation they also criticize everything. The memory that the council is incorporating new professional profiles of the primary care to reinforce it with a substantial increase of the premise. This is done, not done. And, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, because it seems that they are obsessed with the victories of Europe, they speak of President Puigdemont making reference to it as "the escape from justice". See, how do I explain that? Perhaps you could say to them through the holder of this same week: « The European Court of Justice returns immunity to President Puigdemont and to Councillors Comín and Ponsatí. They are full-fledged MEPs throughout the European Union. While Europe has justice, Spain has crypto-franchise courts. And, listen, here the only one who has escaped justice is the Emeritus King. This one did escape justice. He's escaped justice. [[Greetings.]] An inherited protection of Francoism and consecrated to the Spanish Constitution. I'm done. I stop threatening teachers and school principals, lawyers and journalists. Stop threatening Catalan language and culture, and Parliament, and democracy. They call us separatists, and they're you, the separatists, and they won't get together. Neither their lies nor their receptions are functioning at all. In fact, they are indisposed electorally. I don't want to make a fool of Europe, Spain and Catalonia. And let us be clear, despite repression, imprisonment, exile, espionage and fake news, we will continue to work with all humility, but with all determination, in the defense of rights and freedoms and to culminate in the independence of Catalonia and make a better country. For all that and for all that will come, we will vote in a straight line, not for your entire vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.130.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.131.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... We have here in front of us a motion from Ciutadans that vaguely, at first glance, what we seem to have is that they wanted to shape their electoral program there, as if that which they didn't win at the polls think that they might get some more support here. And certainly they'll get it from some groups to the right or the extreme right. In any case, what has sent us its proposal is that the Republican government and the majority of the independentist really go for the right way. His attacks reaffirm the good work that this government is doing, with the leadership and determination of President Aragonès, the compromise of the councils and also the good service of the public workers and workers of the Government of Catalonia. I inform you that we will vote against it. They could've figured it out. And in the justification we also want to take advantage of everything that during this first year of the legislature and with the limited tools and resources that we have..., it has done very good and well done and that we will not stop working to improve and increase it, because the green, democratic, social, feminist transformations are on the march and do not have up to date. And so, in the recast, he distils his motive for the understatement and criminalization of independence, of persistence in the judicialization of politics, which leads to weakness. Because I want to remind them again that, despite constantly governing under the threat of repression and of the use of the judicial system to impose on us what they can't get at the polls, despite the fact that we have exiles and reprisals and we feel spyed on and continue to criminalize those who want to change from democratic radicalism, despite all the brute war, the vocation of service, republican convictions and compromise to build a better country democratically. We want to win democratically the Catalan Republic. Therefore, we continue to be poor, working hard to improve people's lives and preserve democratic freedoms, overcoming all the obstacles they intend to put us forward, as they have done so far. Because they came to beat us up, they came to impreson us, but here we are, dempeus, working and fighting for democracy. This also includes overcoming their populist proclamations, sometimes catastrophic and always girls with negative language and confrontational language. And we have the conviction and conviction, as I said, that the best response to their attacks are the facts, that they are the proposals in place, that they are the advances in the four great transformations – green, social, feminist and democratic – that most of them call for Catalan society and that we are moving forward. I will highlight the most recent to exemplify the work done during this first year and beginning with an approval of assumptions, the assumptions that have followed the most social until now approved and most progressive, with a firm bet for a universal health system, with a firm bet for a welfare state that fights social inequalities. And we're going further. In the feminist transformation we have done a lot of work with the new councillor who pulls with impenetrableness. We have campaigned against the poor menstrual; we have made the body of protection and promotion of equal treatment and non-discrimination; we have multiplied by four aids to women's sport; we have reserved forty_per_cent seats for women to the thighs of Mossos, Bombers and Rural Agents. And we will continue to work for this feminist revolution in all social spheres. We've done a lot of work in the social field, too, despite the fact that you see that they want to keep you. It has advanced and obtained the gratuity of its own course as a child 2. The reduction of rates has been achieved in classrooms, thanks, let's say, at this firm bet on assumptions. We've made a plan of active employment policies. We've achieved foreign investment levels. We have made very ambitious policies, as we have seen these days, so it is social cohesion in a country like ours, with many mother tongues, putting the català in the place that corresponds to it, that it is the pal de paller de la cohesio, with the national pact for language, the pulse of the català, followed also by all these social actions, with a social rescue plan of more than 900_million euros, the universal basic income, driving the plane. We have also made all the green transformation with this decree of renewables, which drives a distributed, participatory and territorially cohesive energy model, so much more democratic, that in one year it has managed to move from sixty to 1,200 megawatts projected and from one hundred to two hundred megawatts in self-consumption installations. We have advanced with a new law of courageous residue for zero residue and the promotion of the circular economy, and above all also in the democratic transformation, improving what are the country's consensus, with a clear bet to give response to territorial cohesion before an unorthodox proposal for an expansion of the airport, defending Olympic games behind the territory or with a rural agenda that also responds, and above all with a social agreement for amnesty and self-determination. We are here to advance the Catalan society, lords of Ciutadans. And the ingenious transformations are a step further to make this full Catalan republic a reality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.132.0	I, to pronounce on the papers presented, has the parula the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.133.0	Thank you, President. I ask you to enter, flexibility, because I will have to list several things that I would like to have time to finish in the two_minutes that I have, and I ask you, let's say, bonhomie in the distribution of time, President. Let's see, several groups have told us about what they think we should be ashamed of ourselves. Look, I'm going to tell you some things that I, as a citizen's deputy, would definitely embarrass me, and we're going to distribute the responsibilities a little bit. First of all, gentlemen of the commons, I would be ashamed that my party was in coalition with the political arm of a terrorist gang. I'd be ashamed of myself without a doubt, as they do... [[Some applause.]] Well, gentlemen of the UPC, I would be ashamed to have in my group a Member who refused to answer in Spanish or Catalan to an ALS patient in this Parliament. [[Some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, I would be ashamed if a Member of my group said openly: "I do not intend to approve again either to sign or to say absolutely nothing about a motion for it to be drafted in Spanish. I'd be ashamed, indeed. [[Some applause.]] Gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, who look at me surprised, I would be ashamed that the president of my party, who has also been president of the Generalitat of Catalonia, met with Putin's emissaries, with whom he is falling in Europe. I'd be ashamed, indeed. [[Some applause.]] I would be deeply ashamed, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, that in my government..., or be part of a government that has discriminated against police and civilian guards in the vaccination of the covid; it would be deeply shameful to me. [[Some applause.]] I would be ashamed, in short, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist parties, to be part of a government that defends a completely solvent speech, speaking of 'Spain steals from us, talking that the rest of the Spaniards are little less than a caterva of vagus and maleuses. So I ask you, please, to look in the mirror and realize that you represent the worst nationalism: racist and xenophobic. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.134.0	After the debate, I'm guessing that the vote on this point will take a long time to get the money on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the attention to victims of crime]] [[302-00152/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the attention to victims of the crime, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And you have the word to expose it to Mr. Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.135.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, we bring to the plenary today a motion subsequent to the inquiry that we made the past plenary on the victims of crimes. Allow me, however, to begin with a very special greeting to three people who accompany us to the public. Robert Manrique, victim of Hipercor's attempt and president, at these times, of the UAVAT, the Unit of Attention and Evaluation to Affected by Terrorism; his late, Montserrat Fortuny, the late of the UAVAT. And Javier Martínez, the father of little Xavi, died on August 17th in the Rambla storm, accompanied us. It's for you, this. We put in value last week's inquiry, and the councilwoman explained all the department's plans. The victim has historically been the great oblivion of the criminal system process. Certainly – the counselor reminded us – this has evolved from the legal point of view: 2004, with victims of gender-based violence; from 2015, with the status of the victim, in a very general way. But it's obvious that in this field we have much more to do, we have to go much more, we have to go much further. The motion that we are presenting today would make me say that it is a motion of the least, a motion that should be approved unanimously for this chamber, because it is a motion that, in the end, has a frontispiece that wants to value that it is to pay full and quality attention to victims of all crime, that puts in value two things that are already done by the Department of Justice, as is the restorative justice program. And, therefore, there is a call for awareness, which will eventually lead to an awareness of the subject matter, and it is also called for to encourage legal operators and, above all, the courts and units of comprehensive forensic value. Finally, it is demanded that the Government prepare, as we already did to the inquiry, an integral plan of attention to victims, an integral plan – we gave it to last week's inquiry – to all victims of crime. It's done in gender-based violence, it's done, and it's done a lot more in sexual violence. Secondary victimization, institutional victimization, but also, from the sectoral point of view, to the victims of any other crime, the victims of traffic accidents, of which we speak this morning, the victims of pyramidal estaphs. Finally, I would like to refer in a very special way to the victims of terrorism. There are two autonomous Spanish communities that have a special law for the victims of terrorism. I think we should also propose to do it from Catalonia. Victims don't learn to be. Robert Manrique didn't choose that day to go to Hipercor; in fact, he didn't touch him. That day he went to replace a company. And it is obvious that the Xavi did not choose, when he walked with his family to the Rambles, to be the victim of this bloody tempt. Victims obviously need a lawyer to defend them. You, Counselor, like me, are a practicing lawyer, and we have experienced this very intensely. But they need a lot more than that. They need special attention from the criminal point of view; they are entitled, in the case of victims of terrorism, to some compensation. But that's secondary. They need psychological attention. Little Xavi had two Germans, seven-and-twenty-one-years-old, the Mireia and the Navy, huh? These girls, like the father, like Javier, like Sylvia, the mother, need psychological attention, they need institutionally someone to be in contact with them to say: "We are with you. Not just a formal call to say, "You're already getting compensation and don't touch your noses anymore. They need to be helped, to be given support from all points of view. Because the victims of crime, and more so in a case like terrorism, we're all society. When I took over the defense of Javier Martínez, he asked me not to remain in vain, the death of the Xavi. Javier, Robert, I promise you – my personal commitment already knows, but also that of my parliamentary group and, I hope, that of the whole chamber – that Xavier's death will not be in vain. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.136.0	Then, in the defense round of the papers presented, has the word, first of all, Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.137.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I think, if Citizens didn't exist, we'd have to invent it and, singularly, if there wasn't Nacho Martín Blanco, we'd have to clone it. Because really that one man has the ability to demonstrate all the hypocrisy of this chamber, all the immorality of this chamber, well, it says a lot. It reminds me of David's struggle against Goliath. You are hypocrites and immorals, and that has become quite clear in all that has been discussed in the previous motion. But, in keeping with the present motion and with all due respect for the people who visit us and who have suffered terrorist violence in their own flesh, just to observe that this motion, which as the rapporteur himself has described as minimal... I think it is a generous rating; I think it is quite a motion douche. Finally, we put forward an amendment that said textually – I will read it in Catalan so that I don't have the excuse that they don't understand it –: "Express your support to the victims of terrorism, give support to actions aimed at repairing the damage they suffered and reject any attempt to revictimize them by means of institutional oblivion, of the settlement by persons who have donated and continue to support terrorism or of the normalization of rape or intimidation as supposedly legitimate methods of political action. Well, it is clear why this motion has been rejected. Partly because the proposing group is of the extreme right. We too try to do politics with the extreme right, but it is obviously very difficult. And, well, because whole groups of this chamber, who agree with the heirs of the violence of ETA, who give them a letter of a political nature and which allow them not only not to apologize to the victims, but not to collaborate in the clarification of hundreds of murders of ETA still to be clarified, because, of course, they cannot accept this humble point – this humble point –, trying to take a little seriously the non-victimization of the victims. And, in case there was any doubt, precisely in the company of the brave Nacho Martín Blanco, I had the honor to attend this week at the Cinema Catalunya de Terrassa at the premiere of the documentary by Iñaki Arteta Under the silence, that there you see what a comb is worth, there you see what is the daily reality of the victims of terrorism. And it was us, there were other representatives of the political forces. There wasn't any of you. And, more than that, some political force of those present here... because their puppies, followers or hooligans had given orders to boycott the act. I'll leave it here. And finally, I apologize to the people who visit us, on behalf of the victims of terrorism, for sometimes this Parliament gives so little of itself and is so poor. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.138.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Sergio Macián has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.139.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, and a warm greeting to the victims who are with us. Junts presents us with a motion that seeks to put the victims at the centre of justice action, but we think it remains in good words. Because, if the Generalitat really wanted to put the victims..., as it says, guarantee the victims of the crime special protection and quality care, it would worry about such essential things as the following: to protect the victims of real sexual assault. Catalonia was the region of Spain in 2021 with more complaints of rape– 608 –, far ahead of Andalusia – with 281 – and Madrid – with 274. And these data, which are unacceptable, have nothing to do with heteropatriarchy, structural violence or other ideological deviations, but with their policies of borders open to countries where hundreds of thousands of violations are committed. And what cannot be done is that the system of alternative criminal measures applied by the department, which is a very progressive and very goodistic system, has allowed a person like the rapist of Igualada, convicted when he was a minor for assaulting his sister in an attempt, of seven years, to be suspended from detention in exchange for two ridiculous courses – one for sex education and the other for addictions – and to be back on the street in order to be able to commit a crime of sexual assault again, as unfortunately it has been. For us, putting the victim in the center is to ensure that a sexual predator like this is expelled from Spain to serve the sentence in his country of origin, as proposed by VOX. And if the rapist is Spanish, let him be sentenced to life and rot in prison every day [[some applause]] , something that neither of you defends nor supports. That's really protecting women and victims, and the rest are mermaid songs. Putting the victims at the centre also means protecting the victims of illegal occupation, because in Catalonia successive separatist governments have blessed the phenomenon of illegal occupation. And, therefore, Catalonia in 2021 has suffered forty_and_dos_per_cent of the occupations throughout Spain. Access to housing cannot be solved by the back door, by validating the commission of a crime, such as illegal occupation, something you have been doing for years and leaving thousands of Catalans helpless in the face of the scourge of the phenomenon of occupation. Thirdly, putting the victims at the centre of justice policies is also to protect the victims of forced marriages that Islam has brought us and that are increasingly frequent in Catalonia, as unfortunately we have seen these days with two sisters living in Terrassa and who have been murdered in Pakistan by their brothers in a double crime of honour. Murders that point to the consequences of the illegal immigration business, the consequences of the import of cultures that despise women and that have uncovered a whole plot of false labor contracts, of marketing papers to obtain fraudulent visas and residence permits. Let us therefore put the victims at the centre of justice, but indeed, not through their goodist policies of reinsertion of criminals, which only generate insecurity and injustice for the victims. And final notes on the issues raised by the motion. Firstly, they have not accepted our amendment in paragraph 2, paragraph a, which sought to prevent institutional victimization, especially of the victims of terrorism and of the victims of separatist violence. No wonder, because the Generalitat really has as a sign of identity the forgetfulness of the victims of terrorism. Look, with regard to comprehensive forensic assessment units, we are also not going to be able to vote in favour, because they are clearly anchored in gender ideology, serve gender-based violence courts and confront men and women, something VOX denounces every day. And it seems to us a great injustice that these forensic comprehensive assessment units are only activated when the assault is the woman by her male partner. They are not activated, these units of comprehensive forensic valuation, when the assaulted is the man or when the assaulted are the children on the part of the mother. This is to establish victims of first and victims of second, and for VOX all victims deserve the same protection, regardless of who their aggressor was. And with respect to restorative justice, I'll give you a final point. You speak of the goodness of restorative justice, based on reconciliation between offender and victim, forgiveness of victims, but for others. When they are the coup leaders of the trial, the condemned, then they do not need to ask forgiveness or repent for pardons. That is his concept of restorative justice, which we do not share. And that is why VOX has appealed to the Supreme Court for indecent pardons, which the Supreme Court is now going to review, and let us hope that our high judiciary will revoke them and return the leaders of the trial to prison, from where they would never have had to leave. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.140.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.141.0	Thank you, President. Education, that's what my mother and my father taught me from a very young age, and they told me that it's the very basis of human relationships, because that means respect. Yes, our spokesman, Mr. Raúl Moreno, is an educated person; my party, the PSC, is an educated party, and we are very proud to do an educated policy, which I think Catalonia needs. The utmost respect, all our escalph, all our support for you, those who today accompany us on this day: Robert Manrique, Javier Martínez and his escort. An honor you're here with us. Look, this young man talks about two things, even though sometimes here, when they push the Faristol, they talk about what they want, don't they? But he speaks of two things: of restorative justice, it is to say, that the victims of crimes do not remain like a stone guest to a criminal process, which is what happens today. A person, when he denounces some type of crime – complains already to the judge, or to the commissioner, or does to the office prosecutor – one day he goes to the judge to testify, they call again one day for a judge, sometimes he does not enter the room because the lawyers there are making a compliance and he doesn't know what has happened, they come out and say: "You can go now. And that's it. Or he goes in there, he says, he goes out, and he doesn't have any kind of control, of knowledge, of bonding with a process where he's the most important person in this process, because she's suffered it, he's the victim. Our trial expels the victim of the trial, and that still makes it even darker for people, justice. Because you say: "If in this, which I know the person concerned, I am not aware of anything or explain anything to me, justice, like at least, seems like a little dark. What you're asking is that, and more importantly, you're asking that restorative justice be a tool too. This is not the worst view they want to see from VOX; no, no, that's not it – that's not it. It's a natural thing, it's that I can participate... there are many examples. This has been going on for many years. But, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany in the sixties already made a theory. It is true that we should define, advise, this concept, for example, of universality. I don't know if all crimes can obviously be restorative justice, but it is true that there are different lines. We need to study. Even so, we're bound by legal empire. We have the Amsterdam Treaty, we also have compliments on the March 15, 2001 Council decision. That is to say, Catalonia also did its dues; in the 1980s it started with criminal mediation. We were gonna be pioneers. At that time we were very pioneers, counselor. See if we can get it back, too, huh? Therefore, I believe that we, in addition, from Catalonia, must give an example that this can be a reality. As I said, not for all crimes. For example, when we heard about the crimes of terrorism and we felt Ciutadans giving lessons to the PSC about suffering terrorism... it must be more humble in this life. Give them lessons, Citizens to the Socialist Party, who unfortunately gave the lives of many companies and companies, among them Ernest Lluch..., and who give them the Ciutadan lessons, sincerely say a lot in favor of how the world sees its group. [[Greetings.]] And lastly, we will vote in favour, certainly, of this, but UVFIs are a figure that is foreseen in Organic Law 1/2004 and that 2005 were already deployed. It's our competence. He said years ago. When it is said "promote," "give training...," he said years ago that this exists. I think it's an exercise that we should also humiliate, all of us, that is also our responsibility. Finally, we simply welcome the fact that there are motions for justice. But, above all, when they are from groups of the Government that would please us, if possible, more than motions, they are actions of government, than from our group, as we have always done, in an educated way – and so we will always do – we can debate and, if they are good for Catalonia, approve them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.142.0	Next, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, Ms Basha Change has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.143.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... And thanks especially to the victims who are here today. Well, the importance of the victim is recognised, in some ways, to the current legal framework, as the previous respondents have explained, since the year 2004, that comprehensive protection in domestic violence has been put into effect, through the law with the same name, and specifically, since the year 2015, with the proper status of the victim of the crime. We, from the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature, are very much in agreement with the motion and the statement of motion and the motion's sense, even though we have not just heard the specific need of the debate in the House, given the feeling that it has been given and the motion presented. We do think that it could have been a little better, given the feeling that it was finally given to it, especially protection for victims of terrorism. We now operate and operate the office of assistance to the victim of the crime, with various of its in different judicial parties, such as Barcelona comarques, Barcelona, Girona, Lleida, Tarragona and Terres de l'Ebre. And we have activated the restorative justice program, which was renewed in September 2021. In fact, including passing past, we see that Catalonia, like the Basque Country, are pioneer territories in the gamble for restorative justice, which is of great importance for two motius, as expressed by the own program: equipping the victim with more protagonistism and resolving conflicts with criminal transcendence. And it does so from the centrality of the repair, as the element around which the measurements and actions taken rotate. Therefore, mediation between the parties is a key tool. Even the state of the victim of the crime recognizes restorative justice as a right of the first victim, giving it an entity that until then did not have. And, in fact, until all 2016 Catalonia and the Basque Country signed a collaboration agreement in the matter of restorative justice, starting from the base, as I said, that in both territories we are pioneers in this bet. Therefore, recognizing the importance of guaranteeing special protection to the victim is to the existing marc; approving a strategic plan of attention to the victim of the crime, to ensure that all victims are recognized, may be necessary to put order, effectively, but we understand that it is the political stake of the Catalan Department and Justice, which already has this direction since years ago; disseminating the protocol of operation of units of integral forensic value among the fundamental judgments, and involving the community in the resolution of conflicts is the basis of the same ongoing restorative justice program. In fact, last week we had the chance to count on the appearance of the director of the office of assistance to the victim of the crime here in her parliament, in the framework of the LGTBI-phobia work group, and she herself gave us the data and tools that the own office and the deployment of the restorative justice program needs. Because, as we see, the victim's office has increased in the cases at hand, and we see that 2020 was 12,486 cases, and 2021 was already 14,271, of which, of course, 7,118 were victims with foreign nationality and 7,153 were victims with Spanish nationality, against 3,676 attackers with Spanish nationality and 1,180 attackers with Spanish nationality outside the Spanish State. I say this because sometimes we hear things in this room that it is important to point out, because the data already reflect on us that, beyond grandiose speeches and that they basically seek the criminalization of immigration, they have no other type of motivation that can be proven otherwise. What we're saying is that the restorative justice program has a median of two thousand annual requests, and that's very little, giving the requests for attention from the office itself. Therefore, what we are encouraged to do is that if you really want to make a bet for restorative justice, as theoretically is being done, that requires a corresponding endowment of resources, because both the office and the existence of this service to accompany victims is really at the fore of all people who, at a given time, may need it when they report. From our parliamentary group, what we say is that we bet on reparation, victim protection and the common good, and that is, for the restorative justice of truth. This involves resources, and we hope, with the premise executed, to see this political bet actually and materially made effective. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.144.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.145.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament... And he also greets all the victims and the people who accompany them. In the first place, we have to say that the truth is that we have learned that today we have this motion on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, that it is the one that holds the advice of Justice, in the sense that they are already carrying a year of government, and if we add, in addition, all the previous legislatures, they are already carrying many years as to present motions and questions – it has already been said here – that they should already be girls or on the line, on the go. And, therefore, what we are giving from our parliamentary group is that, beyond these motions, what they call actions, above all, to provide resources to be able to deploy all that you ask for today in this motion, in addition, to the fact that most parliamentary groups are in total favour. Because it is obvious that, if we fill our mouths with a quality justice, a pro-justice, a justice of the 21st century, that they are resources and that they are a deployment of everything that is already approved and that is not being carried out, beyond the words. And this is also where we can focus on the victims of crime. And, in this sense, we share, as it cannot be in any other way, that a person who is a victim of a crime that we have to do is to put all the tools to the point because he is actually also a protagonist in the process and, therefore, is satisfied. And this is where the government, where the Department of Justice, which you are driving, still has a lot of work to do. On the concrete motion, it is obvious that, for a band, we must approve this strategic plan of assistance to the victim by crime, if we really believe in this justice as a public service and if we want it to remain the same for all, accessible, therefore, by the conjunction of the city. And, for another band, it can also strengthen this office of care to the victim with more resources, decentralize the attention in order to be able to reach in equality to the whole territory of Catalonia, to the whole territory of the country, taking into account that today the offices are located in the four provincial capitals and Tortosa in the case of the Lands of the Ebre. A number of offices with many needs, with insufficient hours and also with few staff. You also ask to broadcast between the courts about the functioning protocol of these valuation units. And in this sense, we ask ourselves that perhaps, before we make this broadcast, what we should also do is deploy, according to the generality's own calendar, the deployment of all these units to the rest of the country's judicial parties. And, therefore, in this way do not further frustrate the citizenry, apart from, as we have said before, providing better hours and more staff and resources for those units that today already exist. And finally, also in relation to restorative justice, we consider and share that we should put it in value, that it focuses on the damage produced in its reparation, that it also takes into account the causes, consequences, the needs of the protagonists and that it also allows the responsibility of the persons responsible for a crime and the reparation of the victim. And above all, in this sense, we need to pay special attention to the most vulnerable victims, because they are certainly the ones who need it most. I have just said, of course, that we will vote in favour of all the points of the motion, but, as I said to the principle, we understand that, beyond a motion of the party that I support in this case to the Government, which would be more executions, more resources and, therefore, more realities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.146.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy lady Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.147.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'll do it from the hatch because I'll be very quick. I think it was Congressman Cuevillas to his initial intervention that said he was a very small young man, because what he's trying to do is to seek consensus, and we'll give him support to try, so find that consensus. I, therefore, will be a full vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.148.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.149.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... Start, of course, with a very affectionate greeting to the three people who are with us today, and from here all the way up, our support and a very strong hug. And, returning to the young man, Juntes has presented this motion on the attention to victims of crime, and we find that it is a big question, since if we want a justice that truly completes this social function, a justice that is close to, an effective and feminist justice, this justice must pay attention to victims of crime. Therefore, I am already advancing and announcing our vote in favour of this motion. We do share, as the same Junts MP used to say, that maybe he's a small man, but fine. Already entering the matter, as you know, there are different types of crimes and, therefore, victims too are. But we cannot fail to specify some people who are victims of concrete crimes, who are the derivatives of this patriarchal system in which we live, and who are the crimes that derive from the social sacre of male violence. Therefore, it is necessary to differentiate these victims from the rest of the victims, because in this case discrimination about the woman is because of being a woman and the roles of submission in the ones we live in. Many women and, as a result, their children need special protection for whom they have suffered, a protection that must be given from the outset, when the aggressor is denounced, during the criminal proceedings, but we understand that he must also continue afterwards, and a protection that on many occasions has not been enough and that the public authorities have not been able to arrive in time, and we have passed the worst possible scenes. In this point, mention the Law 17/2020, which amended Law 5/2008, of the right of people to eradicate male violence. And it's that this reform included institutional rape, and we understand that it's essential, because to get a good attention to the victim of the crime we have to hear that these victims too many times are victims of institutional rape and, above all, when the case comes up to a court. And to explain what I have just said, I will set an example, a real case of a very close person. And it's that it's about a victim of male violence, a woman with only twenty-seven years and a daughter with her attacker. She, after all she had to live, decides to take the step, decides to file a complaint, and what she thinks is: "I trust in justice. He decides to explain what happened because he needs the system to pick it up, he's at his side and he's helping. Well, when this complaint goes up to the court, the judge brings the case back to a simple quick trial. The view is celebrated, and it has at the side, a meter away, its attacker, and the king separates it from it. Start the questions and, of course, she begins to cry when she relates her hell. I, what do you think? He finds before a judge that the size in his interventions and an assailant at his side laughing as he looks at her. It comes out worse than it came in, because it comes out worse because it comes out victorious and raised. And above all because she, after explaining... well, better said, the one who let him explain, that very late must deliver the daughter in common to her aggressor. She is a victim of male violence and also a victim of institutional violence. And, besides, we're not only talking about institutional rape, but also about this additional rape that affects women with secondary victimization as a result of actions that many times end up with the prosecution department, the defense and, in this case that I've exposed, also the trial. We have a lot of work left to do, and here they are to do it and change this situation. But for her, for all, for all victims of male violence, for the victims who have filed a complaint and who have not yet done so, for all victims of crime, let us conjure ourselves because, when they arrive at a court, they find protection, that they remain at the best possible form and that they do not come out with victims of institutional violence, because justice repairs them. The system can't fail them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.150.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, retake the word the deputy Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.151.0	Thank you, President. To the groups you have shown your recovery, thank you very much. An acclaim for all groups, especially those that you have shown certain doubts: indeed, it is a motion of the least. The will of our political group and the department is to go much further. But precisely because of this, we wanted to make a small movement, to start from a parliamentary mandate that allows us to move much further. Dealing properly with victims is not just a legal obligation; it is a moral obligation that we have as a society, and we need to do much more. And that's why, I mean, we wanted this young man to be so good that he could or could be approved unanimously, because he gave us a propriety to all of us and to the department a very clear mandate to move forward on this line. Because precisely – and that's why it's minimal – what we want to avoid is politics; that there are a couple of groups that couldn't help but take advantage of this motion to politicize it clearly. In Catalonia we count 156 victims of terrorism: 134 from Catalonia, 22 from outside Catalonia ; almost 700 heavy wounds. The various terrorist organizations responsible for these attacks have come. Please try again to politicize the victims and, in particular, the victims of terrorism. Please pick up the Fatxual Reality Eyes, these Fatxaverse Eyes. And, please, we're talking about victims who haven't decided to be, who aren't left-handed, and who aren't independent or unionist. They are people who have not chosen to be victims, who have suffered misfortune – who could have passed us or occurred to any of us – to be there at the most unfortunate time. I, please – please – do not politicize. And in this matter, we are united among all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.152.0	Thank you very much. So this young man's vote will also have a place when we finish the next item on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the railway system]] [[302-00153/13]] The motion following the question to the Government about the railway system, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar. I, to expose her, has the word Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.153.0	Good afternoon. President, deputies, deputies... we have five minutes to convince you to vote in favour of our motion on the railway system. Given the climate crisis and the fossil fuel crisis, we understand that the number one point of the motion is precisely the palar of this motion, because it says that we demand the impulse of the railway system and the moratorium for the construction of any new road infrastructure, limiting the interventions to the road network to the maintenance and safety tasks. We have had items at this point, items that have come from Juntas and also items that have come from Esquerra Republicana. The Junts emena proposed to delete all reference to moratoria, and the Esquerra emena apostavia for a different writing, where the road model is redesigned to avoid future unnecessary projects of construction of new high-capacity infrastructures. We have not been able to accept these points, as we have moved to parliamentary groups, because we cannot give up the key word that the honourable Member has, which is precisely the word'morality'. And the two papers proposed precisely to leave this word, "morning. For us, the moratorium is an essential tool, an essential tool, to deal with the climate crisis and the fossil fuel crisis. Mirin, they could have spelled out the text, in relation to the word "morning," he said: "Go on, let's make a morning for these years. But it wasn't like that; they wanted the deletion of the word. They could also have told us: "Ostres, the moratorium seems unfair to us that it encloses the whole country, when there are parts of the country that precisely run a deficit of historical infrastructure. We could have accepted them; it's true. In the White Borges, in many parts of the country, they suffer from deficits, and it is clear that the moratorium should not take everyone equally. But the emena didn't go this way. What you want is to get this word out, and this is where we can't, because it seems to us, put on the table the idea of a moratorium on road infrastructure, a powerful idea that will form part of our political agenda. We ask, in relation to the second point, that they vote in favour, in favour of the idea of planning, and planning not from the hands of the lobbyists or the central government, but from the organized society, which has accumulated knowledge for many years. And we hope that the government will precisely pull out of this accumulated knowledge and that it will make a well done, standard, binding, drawing and landing the railway system of this country and that it will link with all that historical potential that we are precisely years ago. In fact, the first line, of Mataró..., we held it here, the first line of the peninsula. And, therefore, we need to re-launch with history and bet on a rail system of radial perspective, which takes into account the need for mobility beyond the metropolitan area and addresses the need for villas of more than two thousand inhabitants. We also ask them to vote in favour of the great infrastructures of the country: Corridor Mediterranean, Fourth Railway Belt – not the road, the railway – to solve all the problem of infrastructures that we water and, precisely, to give a solution to what my fellow MEP Xavier Pellicer commented this morning, the great left-handedness that we have today at the AP-7, where, precisely, in most fatal accidents already the trucks intervene. Precisely, if we had a powerful Mediterranean corridor, then that wouldn't happen. There would be no such victims that we visualize, see, and also avoid those invisible victims, which are precisely the consequences of this contamination and this constant violation of the directives on the environment. Great infrastructures that obviously call for you to think of as the key of Catalan Countries. We also ask them to vote in favour of making these infrastructures, and not to ask the Government of the Spanish State to do so. I think we need to get the word "suggest" out of our dictionary – to ask. We have already decided to take this word out of the dictionary, and we understand that, in view of everything that is going on, of the times that things have been called for, the Mediterranean Corridor, there must be a little bit of a way to grab a lapis, grab a folio, start to devise traces and start to build us, because there is no way that we can move forward. To our question we also asked that we immediately took over the management of the railway system. We're on September 30th. Vice President, you have a meeting in August. We ask him not to rise from the table until he is given the full transposition of the competitions. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.154.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Ms Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.155.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor... The UPC brings to this Parliament today an initiative on the railway system. A dogmatic, populist, radical, separatist initiative, so, like the CUP. So it does not convince us very much. We are only going to support a few small points, but we thank them for bringing it in, because they allow us to talk about trains here, and we also thank them for allowing us to register two amendments, one of which has been accepted by us, and we also thank them for that. And let's go first with your proposal. I've told you a lot of adjectives, but I'm not saying they're not consistent. From its anti-progress framework, of course it has the whole sense of the world the first point, which is not to build any more roads – the whole sense of the world. What I'm surprised is that they didn't ask to take down some of those that already exist, because it would also be perfectly consistent with their position to take us into the past. We were proposing an amendment – he did not name me, but we were also proposing it at this point – with something so aggressive for his ears that, in addition to prioritizing the railway system, we also bet on innovation in other modes of transport in order to decarbonize other modes of transport. That innovation has had to sound too much progress, and, of course, they have rejected it. This was a, above all, dogmatic point, in which they probably even find support in the group of the commons, or they won't go far. And then we also have other points, so, that, populists; for example, that of lowering fifty_per_cent of the rates. It seems super-student, that, the thing of lowering fifty per cent. Why not twenty - five percent? Or why not for free? We don't know why, we don't know if that retracts resources from the rail system, but that does happen for another day. We very much agree that we must have a railway policy that encourages the use of public transport. We very much agree, and that is why we have brought here a lot of times – you know – an initiative that consists of having a young transport allowance that allows our young people to move around Catalonia for a very low fare, of just €30 a month. This is approved in other autonomous communities. It has been found that it hardly draws resources from the system and, in addition, it has been found to encourage the use of public transport, because it generates habit in these young ages. There, our populist friends par excellence, who are the common ones, sure they would also like to approve the, but woe, cachis! , which are now sometimes in the government and now see that these so populist measures, when one governs, are therefore much more complicated. And then, in this initiative, of course, the great solution could not be lacking. The great solution to all our problems is also the great solution for the railway system in Catalonia: that the Government of the Generalitat manages everything. That is our great solution, and it sets it a date: September 30th. I don't know if you remember what it cost us for the Government of the Generalitat to welcome the people's line in its day: ten years. But, well, you guys set it a date, September 30th. This is our great solution. If the rest of us are fools. Those of us who don't share this idea must be fools. Because lucky that the Government of the Generalitat is the one that manages the 9_de_metro line, because, if it didn't manage it, then maybe it would be half built, or maybe it would cost 6,000_million_de_euros, or maybe we wouldn't even know when it was going to end. Or if the Government of the Generalitat manages, for example, the Tarragona tram train, right, Matias? If it wasn't because the Government of the Generalitat manages it, when you arrived in Tarragona, you wouldn't have a railway to go to Cambrils, a railway, a tram or anything. And that they've had thirty years to build it. But if it had been the Government of Spain, we wouldn't have it. Or look how lucky it is that the Government of the Generalitat manages, for example, the line of Anoia, on which our amendment was going, about investigating that accident the other day. Because, if the Government of the Generalitat were not the one who manages the Anoia line, it would also have abandoned it and would invest all the resources in the Vallés line to boast all day long of it while it has a line, for, with a lot of one-way, with frequencies of almost an hour and with a lot of stations that have to pass over the tracks to cross the platform. Well, in the transcript, of course, that you know that all this is ironic, it's not going to be that in the future they believe that all that was done, when there's absolutely nothing. And I suffer, and I suffer not because the Government is going to support that transfer, which I do not doubt, but because we have in the Government of Spain, therefore, a government that is becoming PSC. And I suffer because perhaps with that policy of appeasement, this summer, or in September, or when it is, we are told that to appease the people who, of course, want to decide on their infrastructures, so that they stop doing this, so we're going to give them a piece of railway infrastructure, we're going to give them a piece of trains. And, as they have to intervene after me, I would like you to reassure us, all Catalans, and the PSC when it intervenes, because tell us that you are not going to sell our railway system to bits as you already sold one of the common languages of all Catalans yesterday. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.156.0	In the name of Junts per Catalunya, has the word, then, the deputy Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.157.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies... on the bet for the train, on the bet for the railway services, to Junts for Catalonia will always find us there. In fact, we agree on a good part of the motion, and that is why we will vote in favour of points and we have presented papers to others to make them feasible, many of which have been accepted and, finally, some compromise. I want to thank the dialogue and the effort to seek these consensuses, especially from Mrs Vinyets. But we must all be aware that many of the points of the motion do not fall under the Government of the Generality, and that cannot be overlooked. Mirin, one of the points at which we disagree is that we believe that it is possible to do politics in favor of the train without permanently criminalising the car. It's compatible with one another. We can't demonize the car, we can't give up. You are asking for a moratorium on the construction of new road infrastructure. I'm sorry, but this is a proposal from the centrality of Barcelona, and it's obvious a good part of the country. No Comiols? What do we do with the Ebre shaft unfolding, the C-12? You're funny, aren't you? because you voted in favour of drafting this project on March 24. We bet on the train, we bet on a country of trains, but we didn't see that the car is necessary to move 'nsper good part of the country. But the cornerstone of all this – or the elephant in the room, which Congressman Tremosa would say – is that the main problem with the railway service in Catalonia is the chronic and structural mismanagement carried out by Renfe and Adif on the road. Poor management and low investment in infrastructures that have become obsolete precisely because of this. And that's a chronic problem, a debt on pending infrastructure that goes a long way. Zapatero promised us 4,000_million and executed fourteen_per_cent. Rajoy assumed 4.200 and executed a six_per_cent. Pedro Sánchez has promised us the roll plan – about 246 – and, at the moment, a twenty-two per_cent. This shows us that it does not matter the political color of Moncloa; the State never completes with Catalonia. In fact, on Tuesdays, the Minister of Hisenda has already announced that the government will not publish the fiscal balances per – I quote textually – "not feed the territorial weightage. And it's not just that it's not inverted in Catalonia, but that, in the rail service, the investment in Spain is not adequate. At least, that's what the Airef report, the Independent Fiscal Responsibility Authority, a European body created in 2012, specifically, tells us to look into how public money is spent in Spain. This report criticises the investment made in EVAs and calls for not all that we have to do in EVAs, which are €73,000_million. Look, only Xina has more miles of AVE than Spain, and Spain has the most underutilized AVE in the world, two data that say everything. Before this xifra, the total investment in Near-Roads of the last 20 years, from 98 to 2018, the last data we have of this Airef report tells us that it has been 3,679_millions. 47,8 to Near Madrid, and only 16,8 to Rodalies de Catalunya. And this weight is still growing more as we travel from the metropolitan area of Barcelona. The R3 from Barcelona to Puigcerdà triga more than three hours, hopefully there is no incidence that still makes some delay. Or don't go that far: the connection between Barcelona and Mataró, this line also said by Congresswoman Vinyets, which dates from 1848, today triga more than 1848. This infrastructure debt is what brings us to the current situation. The Government of Catalonia is committed to resolving this problem with the skills we have. Important steps have been taken to start reversing it, such as taking over Lleida's rolling stock service from 2024, which will operate Ferrocarrils. And it is also demonstrated with the 21-30 infrastructure plan, a comprehensive transport plan that also includes proposals for the railway network, or the strategic railway agenda, which takes into account all technical, environmental, technological and innovation challenges. But we have the skills we have. Returning to concrete points of the motion, lowering the import of the tariffs by more than fifty_per_cent, this is not viable. We have the presupposition we have, conditioned for this tax officer we're kicking. And with this assumption we must guarantee the economic stability of public transport. Regarding the Mediterranean Corridor, the Fourth Railway Belt and the orbital line Mataró-Vilanova, enchanted. Pleased to begin the execution urgently. We'd like that, but it's the competence of the Spanish State. Look, in Madrid, they're the ones who have the skills. We will abstain at this point because, in any case, this cannot be asked of the Generality. And, in relation to the slogan introduced for Ciutadans, there's already an open investigation; it's what the Mossos are doing with judicial oversight. Let's say that from Junts to Catalunya, all our climb to the family and friends of the driver and the wounded, as well as the entire Railway family of the Generality of Catalonia. In summary, and as we will vote in favour in point 3, the only possible solution is the full transfer of rolling stock to Catalonia, a transfer that includes stations, trains, lives, finance, staff and money. We've been complaining about this for a long time, we'll keep doing it, at least until we complete our independence. Then we won't have to ask for anything else, because we'll have everything. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.158.0	And finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.159.0	President, Vice President, Members, Members... I would like to start with the words also that my company Jordi Fàbrega commented, adding to my condolences to the family of the dead train driver in the accident of Ferrocarrils de Sant Boi; I support all wounded people. And also add me, as if we were voting in favour of point 8 of the motion... so ask that as soon as possible we know why it passed and put the measures in place so that an accident doesn't happen again. On the subject of the motion, I have to say that we are, as a parliamentary group, overall in favour, and there is why we believe that it is a priority for public transport to our country, because it is a guarantee for the equal opportunities of the working class of our country, for the fight against climate change and for social and territorial cohesion. I, on this bet for public transport, rail transport plays a key role. It's probably not the only element to play, but it plays a key role. I would like to thank Congresswoman Vinyets here for her willingness to accept a good part of the papers. I have already announced that we will vote in favour of the entire House, except for three points, as you can imagine. The first is point 4, which we would vote against because we believe that..., it is certain that the public transport tariff system must be fair, but it must also be economically sustainable. Changing the rules of fifty_per_cent of the costs certainly doesn't have to be carried out at a point in a young man's life, but it has to involve some legislative change, and I think you know it too. And at the same time, in this economically sustainable situation, we also need to be aware of public transport operators who are strained by an increase in operating costs, fuel costs, energy costs; also by a downfall of passengers, who have suffered post-pandemic and who have not yet recovered, and also, finally, by a lack of input or, in the best of cases, freezing of the parties that the State provides to the Catalan public transport tariff system. At point 1 we will also vote against it. They know that we have made an effort – he said sincerely – to try to approach, the result of the climate change context, a rethink, right? , the bet on the road infrastructure of our country, betting to reconsider and rethink the high-capacity infrastructure of the future. But you didn't want to. We don't understand a moratorium that affects all the country's reelers and doesn't talk about lasting. We understand that this is not feasible, this is not realistic. And that's why we don't support it. And also at point 2.c, we will abstain, because, although we agree that these infrastructures are strategic, they are close to the State; we would only need to make them ourselves, we would be cornets and pay for the drink. So, we're not going in here. Look, our country's been running a bug for many years now, not planning on railway infrastructure and not running it. Surely, if we did not have the historical deficit in infrastructure, if we had adopted good policies of mobility, if we had been betting for a public transport of quality and with a visit of a whole country and not only in the great cities and around metropolity, nor had we been debating for a while perhaps the motion of a train country nor would we be today debating this young man, because we would have the tools to be able to cope with the energy, economic, environmental, territorial and social crisis that we are living in. But it is true: we are living this inertia of non-planning, of not executing railway planning. Here that has an honor plate is the State, it's Adif and it's Renfe. We also have to recognise that in our home for many years, when planned at infrastructure level, we preferred to prioritise road infrastructure on railways. But it is also so true that the current government is working through the Department of Territories to break this inertia. And we saw the assumptions that we were able to negotiate and approve with the commons, as they went there to make railway investments and to make them with a perspective that is not metropolitan. If we look at the State, Mr. Pere Macias, in different comparisons, we can see how shy changes are pointing to us. I have to recognize that perhaps Mr. Pere Macias believes me; what I believe is in the State. Actually, I don't think I'm buying myself and nobody's buying it. To the State we can speak of 4,300_million euros at the 2008-2015 roundtable, an execution of the thirteen_per_cent; in 2014, a minimum investment history, with only 34_millions; in 2017 it is again promised 4,000_million euros of investment and only executed 264. This could be followed by checks, but it is that, moreover, we have to add the endemic problems, such as constant delays, a fleet of trains wrapped up or not inverted in the rolling stations, a lack of colossal dimensions that the Catalan citizenry, the working class suffers every day, with difficult conflicts in their daily mobility. And before all of this, before this huge disproposal, I'm still surprised at how someone plays it that civil society says "up and organizes itself in social movements like Batec." I think it's the least that this society and this country can react to before a situation like this. I'm done, President. In order to promote public transport and to promote sustainable mobility, more than agreeing to the full transfer of the rolling stock and medium distance service to our country, it is necessary to ensure a continuous improvement of the offer; it covers the whole territory; it is necessary to require investments in the historical and flagrant infrastructure deficit, and it is necessary to ensure that adequate funding is guaranteed. That's the only way we'll have quality public transportation across the country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.160.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialists Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.161.0	Thank you, President. And, without being used as a precedent, I agree very much with some of the things that Mrs. Vinyets said, don't I? , that transport infrastructure, especially railways, is important. So much so that, since the year 2018, the Government of Spain has donated continuous exhibitions of compromises with the infrastructure and mobility of Catalonia. It has done so in the general assumptions of the State, complementing the experience of the third addition– certainly, some assumptions that you did not vote– and also complementing a judicial judgment that attached to the Government of Catalonia resources of the non-executed third addition of the year 2008, and, moreover, with the disposition to also negotiate with the Government of the Generality those surpluses of the assumption of unexecuted investments in the period in which the third addition, from 2009 to 2013, would actually work. We believe that since the year 2008 there has been a reversal of the policy of underprivileging and abandoning that the government of the ugly People's Party respects the investments in Catalonia, recovering projects, reactivating the works that were paralyzed, both railway as well as on roadways. We, this point calling for the moratorium, will not vote for it either. In fact, in the general assumptions of this year's State – I see that you have not looked at them – you were more devoted to the conventional and rolling network than to other types of railway infrastructure. Miri, at these moments, out of every four euros in investments in railway infrastructure and travel to Catalonia, the Government of Spain poses three and the Government of the Government of Catalonia places one. On the road map some of you have criticized, huh? , of which it covers the period 2020-2025, is to say, these five years, these 6,300_millions which was committed by the Government of Spain to invest in Catalonia, at these times there are 550_millions which are already executed, 1,285 which are tendered and 1,953 which are awarded. That is to say, of the conjunction of 6,300, deputies and deputies, 3,788_million euros that are already..., that is to say, more than half of these resources, precisely to reverse this historical deficit that we have in the matter of railway infrastructure in Catalonia. The list is huge; Mr Pere Macias came to explain it, too, in a committee of this Parliament. I could talk to them about great works, very high assumptions, but also much smaller ones, right? We could talk about the access to the airport of Barcelona, the underground to Sant Feliu de Llobregat or to Montcada, the unfolding of the R3 – historical claim –, modernization of stations, of which there has been much talk here. The call for tenders for the extension work of the Triomf Arc station – two-hundred_metres – which will benefit the R1, R3 and R4 rolling lines has started today. Or technological actions for more than EUR 250 million to adapt to the European rail traffic management system, right? This morning some Member said: "Moreover, there is now frequency elimination on the R4 line. Well, of course, the R4 line is getting better. Because the workers, when they do, they produce effects. And, in any case, it's none of my business, but I'm already asking for an apology from the Government of Spain for these diseases that can be produced. I, respect some of the fears that it's plantagen, right? , miri, the Government of the Generalitat des de l'any 2010 already has jurisdiction over the management of rolling mills. What the councillor puts in his interventions..., is to say: "Listen to us, transfer everything to us. So, look, counselor– you know as well as I do– at these times, about the table, this petition for the transfer of human and material media, that is, the trains, the stations, the people, it's not a topic that's on the table or, like at least, like you, your government, it raises it. We believe that it is not possible to address this issue without making a global reflection, which is previous, on the Spanish model of liberalisation of public service obligations which derives from community law, which will have to be addressed by the Government of Spain and which you will also have to address, is to say... What do you think, that will make the direct award to Ferrocarrils of the Government of Catalonia? This will contradict community law, just as if Spain wanted to do it exclusively to Renfe's operating company. The debate is much more complex than you put us in Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.162.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.163.0	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Today the CUP brings us a new proposal which, from what they call the ‘climate emergency situation, aims to stop using our own vehicle to use the train in our movements, in a clear exercise of hypocrisy. And it's a hypocrisy that anyone can check, any citizen can check. Let's see, the building of the Parliament of Catalonia, this building, has about three hundred_metres a station of trains of proximity and regional, the station of France, as we all know, and, a little beyond, another station, in this case of metro, also another railway infrastructure. Between this Parliament building and the train station there is a surface parking which is used by the deputies. If any citizen takes a walk through this parking lot during the full days, you will see that it is full of vehicles parked by these MEPs so ecologists that they want Catalan citizens to move by train while they do it by car [[applause]] , quite of them high-end and high fuel consumption, by the way. It's in everyone's eyes. In their hypocrisy they preach that of "do what I say, but not what I do. Well, if we go into the detail of your proposal, it's a compendium of arbitrary, crazy measures and a far-reaching increase in public spending. Thus, they propose a moratorium for the construction of any new road infrastructure. I had doubts whether the proposing group would accept any of these softening amendments; it was clear and forceful, the CUP Member: they do not accept, they do not like roads, they do not like a kilometre of roads. They continue with their demonization of private road vehicle transport – except for them, as can be seen – by placing all the obstacles that occur to them. They also propose measures as unrealistic as connecting by rail all the municipalities of more than ten_ thousand inhabitants, and doing so facilitating the trips without passing through the city of Barcelona. It would be enough to see the geography of Catalonia, the municipalities affected and the existing railway network – there is – to check that this action is inviable. And, of course, they call for the transfer of all the state's railway infrastructure in Catalonia, a measure that seems to us to be genuine nonsense and of which the separatist parties have already made a flag. In VOX we have already expressed our opposition to this absurd measure, which would mean the breakdown of the national rail network. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we want to express, once again, our utmost respect for the freedom of mobility of all Catalans; it must be each citizen in each specific case who chooses the means of transport according to his or her convenience. We regard the use of private vehicles as respectable as that of public transport, including railways, of course, which are so much talked about by politicians on the left, but which are then not used. Public administrations must ensure that this decision can be made with complete freedom and not condemn to ruin thousands of working families for their climate fanaticism. This requires a good supply of public transport, including, of course, rail, but also avoiding the criminalisation of the use of the private vehicle by means of restrictions on its use or abusive taxes. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.164.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word, then the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.165.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, our parliamentary group will support this motion in the measure that we share the main objective, that the main objective, in fact, is, therefore, to deploy railway policies so that citizens can move in public transport. Therefore, it is not a question of obligation or free choice, but of possibility, which is what much of the country cannot now itself. And a lot of this country that can't travel by train, plus, it's a city that either has no car or has no car, because, in fact, half of the city can't use the private vehicle because it doesn't have a car or because it doesn't have a car. And when we talk about questions of possibility, that's what we understand this young man to pose, that's, in the first place, infrastructure, so, that the train arrives at all places where not up, where it's felt that it arrives, obviously, but that the transport collects arrive to the whole country, which at the moment does not happen. Two, slow times and slow frequencies that make it possible for citizens to travel with public transport to go to work or to study, which is not the case now. And three, like, at the very least, an intermodality policy so that those municipalities that do not have a train station and that it is certainly not viable to have it, so they can have other public transport mechanisms to travel to the train station and park the vehicle, park the bicycle or go there by bus and take the train, which is now also practically impossible. So, we understand that this is the feeling of this young man, and that's why we're picking her up. A young woman who, as some of the previous Members and Members have said, raises an obvious question, which is the problem that has two dimensions. One is the disinvestment, therefore, the lack of execution, and the other is planning. Clari, who has to plan the country's railway infrastructure? They have to be planned by the Generalitat. Therefore, the planning deficit that we now have and that this young man places as first point, that is "we plan those infrastructures that we need in railway matter, correspond to the Government of the Generality". It is true – and our group has said this by active and passive – that we come from many years of non-execution and disinvestment on the part of the State of resources in the railway system, as it is also true..., because you tend to compare much in past exercises the assumption and the execution, but we go to the current data, not the assumption and executed, but the already awarded, bid, executed, right? And, therefore, what we have today is that of the 20-30 round table, which provides for 4,600_million euros for the 20-25 period, so there are no more than 1,200 bids, more than 1,100 bids on trains and more than..., awarded on trains, forgiveness, and more than 730_millions also awarded. So, the volume of resources... obviously there's been a change here. Therefore, we recognize that there has been a change in the state for which it does the inversion and execution in rail transport on such important issues as the Montcada patella, the hospital patella or the unfolding of the R3. So this is where you're getting ahead of yourself. Fem, therefore, also advances in the scope of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and we do not only plan, but also execute. Because, then, the other big question that you place on the table is that it is not for the Generality to execute certain infrastructures. So, look, I think that yes, that there are many, of railway infrastructure to be carried out by the Generality. For example, many of which we have been able to offer, such as the Costa Brava tram train, the tram train that is already running from Camp de Tarragona, that of the Bages, that of the Ebre or also the railway connection with the Pyrenees. And also the deployment of Lleida's rollers, not just of one line, but of the four lines. Therefore, all this corresponds to the Generality. It is true, and we also gather, therefore, that it is a complete transposition in order to be able to fully execute all these questions. But, listen to me, counselor, when I got the full transfer on September 30th... and if not, he'll be sitting there at the table. When this happens, if it happens, who will run the infrastructure? Who will do the railway orbital line when we get the full transfer? We're gonna have to do this, aren't we? Therefore, escort'm, the Government of the Generality has to start executing railway infrastructure. For what he's doing behind the scenes – let's just say it's there – we think we need to move on. So we don't... we don't stop what we can get. And, so, what's the most immediate thing we need, we believe, right? Payment of the tariff deficit; therefore, we cover the tariff deficit and establish a program contract with Renfe. And from here we begin to demand also, therefore, frequencies and times as they correspond, because it is through having these resources that we can effectively pull through all these questions. Therefore, let's start here, to have this tariff deficit resolved, and from here we start also to improve frequencies, to improve times. And we also agree with the motion on questions that arise, for example, in the need for an office of the railway system, but it exists; there is also an office of the rolling stock, which we hope the Government of the Generalitat can also work together to improve, in short, all that is the railway system of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.166.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.167.0	Yes, President. I'm doing it from the seat. The truth is that it is a motion that we did not just share the model a priori, but it is true that we are going to vote in favour of some of the points in this motion, because we find it very interesting, especially, for example, the Mediterranean Corridor, who have already spoken to other speakers about the need. There's been talk here about the accidents that's going on at AP-7. Specifically, this very morning there was an accident at the AP-7, a fatal accident, which we regret, at the height of Tarragona. Also this same week, accident with a tanker dump also at the height of Tarragona. Also a few days ago, at the Ametlla de Mar. It is therefore a problem that is obvious and that we have to deal with and solve. In this sense..., and above all, especially, therefore, to join me in that support that has been shown to the family of the deceased person, the driver of the convoy, in this Generalitat Railways accident in Sant Boi de Llobregat. It is a matter of particular concern to us. I do not think it has perhaps been given the necessary importance, since perhaps the media focus this week has been on other issues, unfortunately. But there is a very significant point, and it is that there have already been concrete warnings from the drivers of problems at that particular point in the way. And I believe that in this case the Government of the Generalitat will have to give many explanations. And, therefore, we are going to support this point 8, which asks to open an investigation to know exactly what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.168.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, once again hold the word the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.169.0	Yes, thank you. Just made reference to some of the points of the young man. The reduction of 50 per cent of the current rates. See, the prices are cars, they're not transparent, like the operating costs. There are many things that should not be carried to the spaces of the citizens of this country, that each time they are more impoverished classes, such as, for example, under directives. Illum and stenographers in relation to the costs that are borne by the popular classes. About whether he's a populist, the measure. Well, it doesn't seem like it to us, honestly. I would like to touch the law of public transport; we have already given it to our young lady, who needs to make legislative changes. And without going any further, public transport in Luxembourg is free for everyone. It may not be vulnerable or in certain collections, but they have apostately apostately free public transport. So, as a populist, as a matter of fact. It doesn't sound to me that any left-wing party is now in the government of Luxembourg. We also propose the creation of a social table of public transport. Since 2015 you've been planning it; it hasn't been planned. Also, that the Union of Accounts, precisely, makes a detailed report on the inverted quantities and the stopped investments during these forty years per part of the rolling stock service. Let's quantify everything we've been feeling with these numbers constantly. Also, a study on the activities and liabilities of the Renfe operating and Adif companies respects the infrastructures that currently exist in the country, for when this transfer is to be carried out. And a study on the taxation of all public entities involved in the management of the Catalan railway service. And basic: the creation of an office of the railway service that thinks of a country which must be the railway system of this country. And, Mr. Terrades, also without being used as a precedent, I will recognize that the tripartite in 2006 made a good law. He did the law of the railway system, Congressman. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] That's it. And that this office implements all the legislative forecasts. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-26-3102.170.0	All right. So, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions that we have tabled this late. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies (continuation)]] [[302-0150/13]] We begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government about the need to address the phenomenon of cryptocurrencies. Let's start by voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 108 votes in favour, 14 votes against, 5 abstentions and one person who did not vote. Let's move on to point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved with 49 votes in favour, 16 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 50 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 55 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 64 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of a year of bad governance (continuation)]] [[302-00151/13]] Let us now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the balance of a year of bad governance. We start by voting points 1, 11 and 21. The vote begins. These points were not approved with 19 votes in favour, 80 against and 31 abstentions. We're voting point three and 24 now, with all their letters. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 8 votes in favour and 122 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 8 votes in favour, 80 votes against and 42 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 50 votes in favour and 80 votes against. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 19 votes in favour and 111 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points have also not been approved with 50 votes in favour and 80 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the attention to victims of crime (continuation)]] [[302-00152/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the attention to victims of crime. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with a little intrigue and 130 votes in favour. [[Perlongats applause.]] We're voting for the second point of this young man. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour and 16 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point three of the motion. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 16 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the railway system (continuation)]] [[302-00153/13]] And finally, we proceed to vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into the railway system. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 16 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We're voting now point 2, bearing point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 116 votes in favour and 14 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point received 24 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 94 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 80 votes in favour and 50 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 19 votes in favour, 106 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 14 against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now point number 6, bearing point 6.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 83 votes in favour, 16 against and 31 abstentions. We're voting points 6.d and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved with 130 votes in favour. And finally, we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved with 80 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 31 abstentions. We suspend the Ple until tomorrow at two-quarters a day. Thank you.
