ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.1.0	Good afternoon. The session begins. [[Procedure for choosing the syndic or syndic heavyweight]] [[281-00001/12]] According to Article 8.1 of Law 24/2009, of 23 December, of the trade union of heavy goods, this plenary session will have a single point of the order of the day, which is the procedure for choosing syndicate of heavy goods goods. And, then, the second secretary will read out the candidate's proposal, made for the Bureau of Parliament. Forward, secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.2.0	"In accordance with the opinion of the Commission of the Syndic of Greuges on the suitability of the candidate presented in the procedure for choosing the syndic or syndic of heavy goods vehicles, in accordance with Article 8.1c of Law 24/2009, of 23 December, of the Syndic of Greuges, it is proposed to the Plenary of the Parliament Esther Giménez-Salinas and Colomer as the candidate for syndic of heavy goods vehicles. Palau del Parlament, June 28, 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.3.0	Then, and in agreement with the request made by the parliamentary groups to the Board of Spokesmen, we will open a five-minute turn because those groups that wish to do so can intervene, having, first of all, the opportunity to do so, from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.4.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, and good afternoon, Mrs Giménez-Salinas. Today we are carrying in this plenary, as the second secretary of the chamber has read, the proposal of the new candidacy to be syndicate of weights. A ple that should be in circumstances, let's say so, more normal, becomes, I wouldn't say, in this room, historical, but extraordinary. Extraordinary because we wear different years – we wear different years – with the same person in front of the figure of the union, partly because of his willingness not to leave the carrec, and partly because of the institutional blockade that was in this room. Institutional block that I believe that all groups should rejoice that they have broken down and that we have been able to agree – as the law says, in fact, by another band – an application that I gather, in principle – and we hope that this will happen – so the majorities that are needed for their approval. Besides, I also think it's a proud move that the candidate is a woman. If we really want effective equality, we have to do it in all areas of the Administration, in all areas. And so, in this case, the candidate is a woman, I think this is also a cause for joy and satisfaction on the part of everyone. But – and let me be clear, and so we also said at the time of the hearing – the proposal for this candidacy by Mrs Giménez-Salinas – and she also expressed it – was neither political nor gender-specific; it was because of her professional and personal skills – why not say so? With this hearing that we did a few days ago, I think that all the groups were able to prove and, if we're honest, I think we all agree on the suitability, the personal and professional value of the candidate. And, as it shows, I am making a headline of a diary that was headlined the next day: "The resume of the future trade union of heavy goods, one of the few things that almost generates unanimousness in Parliament. Precisely, only the characteristics of Mrs Giménez-Salinas are the ones that today should condition the vote of all parliamentary groups. If we only stick to the candidate's professional merits, I have no doubt that today there should have been unanimity among all the Members present. Person of extended professional experience in the field of criminal law, especially restorative justice and juvenile justice, also of psychology, with experience in public administration, university, private world, with experience both in the national and international sphere. I doubt that any group can question their suitability for the charge. But he won't have an easy pocket. He will have to overcome an epoch, a convulsed stage, and honor the motto of the union of heavyweights: "The syndicate of people. The union of hardships is one of the important pillars that citizenship has towards the poor functioning of public administration, both in the political decisions that it generates or can generate affectations to the life of citizenship as above all in the quality of the services of the Administration towards citizens, and it will have to be the main objective of the new stage: to place the union at the service of the city, individually and collectively. As I say, I think it has several reptes. The first, as we say, is this, that the union is not the center, is an instrument, and that the center is the city. The second, re-prestigating the figure of the union of heavyweights; that generate enough confidence so that the people will sleep there and use the servants. More than once we have commented that it is not sustainable, it is not good for its own..., nor for the Parliament, but above all not for the union, to make exits to the territory and that in municipalities of two thousand inhabitants there is one, two visits or there is no one. You will also have to work, you will have to help, you will have to work with other bodies: with local defenders or trustees, with general administrations, assemblies, district councils, public law corporations. We must have a strong union figure, respected by the government and the administrations, that their decisions are complete, followed, and that their recommendations are taken as they are: recommendations of compulsory compliment. They will also have to make a question that will not be easy, but at these times the noranta-vuit_per_cent of the complaints that have the union arrive online. So... whoever knows the current company knows that digital Brittany has gone a lot further out here. Therefore, we are not sure at these times – and here we will have to work there or influence it – that all people have access to the union. And this will be one of the main tasks, because, if not, all the work that can be done in the union, all the reports that can be done..., we will always have the doubt as to whether they are being answered and if they are actually represented by the feeling of society. And, lastly – because time is running out – in these cases he always gets used to telling the guys that they come in and get lucky. I won't wish it out to you because I understand that this is part of the chance. I would like you to do your job with professionalism, with the professionalism you have demonstrated, with your good manners, which you demonstrated on the day of the hearing. I think with these two fears you'll be very uncertain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.5.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergio Macián has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.6.0	Thank you, President. Honorable President of the Generalitat, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, distinguished Mrs Giménez-Salinas... As I have had occasion to point out in this rostrum on several occasions – and today we reiterate – VOX is in favour of abolishing the institution of the Syndic of Greuges, as other autonomous communities in Spain have already done, such as Murcia, who created it in 2008 and suppressed it in 2012. And we ask for its suppression because it is unnecessary duplicity. We already have the Ombudsman, who performs his role throughout Spain. Only nine seventeen autonomous communities have this redundant figure. For example, there is no Ombudsman in Madrid, Asturias, Balearic Islands, Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Extremadura, Murcia or La Rioja, which shows that it is an institution that cannot be separated from the criteria of efficiency of public resources. In addition to superfluous, ombudsmen represent a waste of more than 33_million_of_euro per year for public administrations, which is a very important amount in times of crisis such as the current one, unless it is thought that public money is nobody's, as Carmen Calvo said. Almost ten years ago, a committee of experts, during Mariano Rajoy's term of office, counted in more than 30_million_de_euros, as he said, the annual savings that his suppression would entail for the public coffers. And it would make all sense, because practically most of the budget of these autonomous institutions is diluted in payrolls of the body itself. In particular, in the case of the union of heavy goods, the eighty_y_seven_per_cent of its budget of 2022. As its website shows, the union has a budget this year of 7_million_de_euro, of which 6,140,000 go to staff salaries, that is, eighty_and_seven_per_cent of the budget, for astronomical salaries, being, by the way, the Catalan syndic the defender of the people who wins the most from all Spain, above the defender of the national people and all the autonomic defenders. In the end, the union has become a huge agency of placement at the cost of the pocket of the middle and working class of Catalonia. That said, and as long as this institution exists and is not suppressed, as I say to you that other autonomous communities have done, we want to highlight a number of issues which will undoubtedly be the new trade union of weeds. First of all, Mrs Giménez-Salinas, despite her high professional qualification, we cannot vote in favour of her election, because it responds to a closed pact that has taken place the parties that govern the Generalitat and the PSC. A pact under which fourteen posts have already been distributed: the union of heavyweights and thirteen more in the Consell de l'Audiovisual de Catalunya, the Agency for the Protection of Dades and the Union of Accounts. The rest of the parties in this chamber have been absolutely disregarded. Secondly, we hope that he will carry out the functions he has statutoryly entrusted with impartiality, objectivity and austerity, qualities that his predecessor, Mr Ribó, did not have to practice well, and that he will really dedicate himself to what the defender of the people, who is to defend, to be guarantor of the rights and freedoms of the citizens and, therefore, not to position himself with the dominant political power. Therefore, the syndic is neither to question nor to make monographic reports on the Supreme's judgment or on the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, as Mr Ribó has done; nor is he to attempt to discredit Spain at the international level, supporting a report that, by the way, has recently been discredited – the Cilevics report – and neither is the union to position itself politically in favour of issues that are outside the framework of its competence, such as pardons, the legal modification of the crime of sedition, amnesty or linguistic immersion, all of which Mr Ribó owns his own personal opinions, but certainly not to use the union as another terminal of the separatist government on duty. Therefore, Mrs Giménez-Salinas, we demand from you, from the utmost institutional respect, that, unlike your predecessor, you do not become the titular of separatism, as unfortunately Mr Ribó did, and be the syndicate of the people and not the syndicate of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.7.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.8.0	Well, thank you, President. Mrs Esther Giménez-Salinas... Well, sense doubt, the candidate for the union of heavyweight us presents an obviously relevant resume, which stands out for the restorative justice, the legal defense of the minor and, generically, in criminal law and criminology. A curriculum that, obviously, credences it, a sense of doubt, to be a candidate for the union of heavyweights. In his resume, we also observe some references that, from our point of view, are not credential or are not qualified to actually occupy this position. Indeed, we find his relationship with the Benc de Santander as the councillor; we find his paper as the voice of the General Council of the Spanish Judiciary; also his paper as the councillor of Catalonia d'Endesa, which are elements for us that do not only have the accreditation or qualification to occupy the seat of the union of hardships, but that generate doubts or questions for what he does to his focus, to his gaze for what he does to the task and functions of this institution, because we understand that it is a role, it is a task that in no way has to be neutral. We don't expect or demand neutrality from the heavyweight union. We believe that, indeed, the union of hardships must be on the side of people, on the side of the citizenry and, therefore, necessarily confronted with the interests of the State, the Administration and the capital, when these are contrary to the indisputable defence of the fundamental rights of the citizenry. Therefore, we do not ask for neutrality; on the contrary, we ask for a clear position on the side of the citizenry in front of the State and capital. But, as I said, based on these references in your résumé and on your trajectory, we have to ask ourselves about the objectivity that you can bring to the exercise of your duties, seen in these precedents, and even ask ourselves whether we should not ask ourselves about a possible conflict of interest in respect. Well, don't finish our remarks here for what you do to your resume and your trajectory. And let's observe – I must also say with surprise – that you are a member or have been a member of the Trilateral Commission. I suppose all of you know what it is about: an organization created year 73 for David Rockefeller; an organization, therefore, that has, among other functions, a vocation of global intervention, of influence in global politics, precisely, to regulate democracies – to regulate democracies – in such a way that it is not a problem for the stability or the development of the capitalist system run by the world; precisely, to regulate them, to subdue them to control, which has made it possible for the Trilateral Commission, in many moments of its history, to pose itself at the side of some authoritarian regimes or certain processes that have returned to democracy. But, well, we also found another element that seems worth remembering, now that we are talking about the Trilateral Commission. It seems, if we are not misinformed or informed, that the 14th year a committee of the Trilateral Commission visited Mr.Artur Mas to the Palau de la Generalitat – you seem to have attended, among other members of this committee – so as to convey to him the concern for the independence process, and, obviously, not to recommend it that more years ago, but to find neutralizing solutions of this independence process; among other members of the committee, Mr. Antonio Garrigues Walker, Mr. Alfonso Cortina, Mr. Ignacio Polanco, you yourself, Mr. Emilio Ybarra, among others. Therefore, this participation in the Trilateral Commission, and with these precedents, will allow us to increase our questions for what it does to the conflict of interests and objectivity at the time of developing its core. But, look, listen to me, we have very clear who is the function and purpose of the labor union in this country: the defence of human, social, civil and political rights; the defence of the right to a dignified life, the right to housing, the right to universal and free public services; social and environmental justice, and, above all, the rights per mountain of the rao d'état [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish, President – institutions like walls in defense of the rights of citizens before the State and capital. We will vote that no to his name also because it was the result of an interchant of cadres of the republican socio-vergency. There has been no reason for joint work or extensive sharing in Parliament. But, look, we, no matter who you are at the front of the ship, are faithful and loyal to the institution of the union of heavyweights, if what it is about is to defend inescapably the objectives we have set. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.9.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.10.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. We were pleased to vote in favour of the candidate. We have been pleased, in principle, by two questions: first, to put in value the own institution, the union of weeds. She's done a lot of good work these past few years. I think it's a valued institution and a useful institution for the country. We have been pleased, therefore, to be in this vote, precisely, because I believe that the union, the institution, deserves the broadest consent of this chamber. And we also liked to vote in favour of the candidate's own profile: for her value, for her knowledge, for her skill and for her taranna. Beyond the explanation he made to the committee, I was able to share with her some of these spaces that Congressman Riera had previously commented on, and I saw there his ability to learn what he doesn't know, but also his social sensibility to intervene in front of the economic powers when he did. The union, with its sense of doubt, must collect the weights and transform them into demands, demands, recommendations to the public administration, to the governments, in short. The defence of the rights and freedoms of the citizenry in the face of abuses and practical ills of public power, as well as of economic power, is the challenge and will be the challenge that must continue to develop for the union of weights. But convinced as we are that the candidate will be on the rise and that she will be able to develop it in this sense, unfortunately, the procedure with which she arrived here does not allow us to vote in favour. Forms and procedures are important, and in democracy, above all, they are very important, and I think we have not used either the best forms or the majors or the best procedures. Working to close a candidacy of a set of organs to renew in the form of a package for three groups projects an image of distribution of boxes, of change of chromosomes, of a pact sealed between three to divide a space of intervention, an institutional space. This is not good for institutions, do it in the form of a package. The image that three are sharing the boxes to hold in each person is the image that is transmitted. If you can say no, but it's the image, and the images, too, in democracy are important. The images have to reflect, if not, on what we want to explain. Therefore, this form of sealed package is an element that makes it difficult for us. But a procedure has also been used that is sure to guarantee the number of votes needed to renew the institution. But it does not want to extend the consensus more than the number of votes needed to renew the institution, unfortunately, it remains quality to the process. One and the other question is that we cannot vote in favour of this candidacy, because a procedure has been used which, in the end, has been to expel a part of this Parliament from being able to increase the consensus needed to renew the candidacy, right? Beyond the vote, however, if Mrs. Esther Giménez-Salinas is chosen, she also knows that she will have all of our collaboration, both you and the union, so that she can continue to carry out her job, collect hardships and defend the rights and freedoms of citizens and citizens of Catalonia against any abuses of power that can make public institutions, public powers or private powers in our country. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.11.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, has the word, after all, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.12.0	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Giménez-Salinas, good afternoon, welcome. You are going to be the new union of heavyweights after eighteen years of absolute reign of Mr Ribó at the head of the union. On the one hand, you have it easy, because it is difficult to do the worst that your predecessor, but, on the other hand, you have it difficult, because it will not be easy to regain the lost prestige and the trust betrayed to so many citizens. If you want to be a good syndicate of hardships and defend the citizenry, you only have to do the opposite of your predecessor. In other words, a public defender is defending citizens against abuses by the Administration and its governments. It is a grave betrayal of the institution to serve as a flatterer or partner to governments in their abuses, as Mr Ribó has been doing, which will be a syndic of infamous memory. When citizens see their democracy threatened by the autocratic whim of politicians who strike democracy and seize public money to cover the costs of their illegal project, the syndic is not to protect the rulers who skip the Statute and the Constitution, which guarantees rights, freedoms, nationality, their equality before the law, and stand by those who trample all these principles. A people's advocate cannot market or accept favors, gifts, or private jet rides with entrepreneurs linked to the three-per-cent plot as Mr Ribó did. A trustee cannot turn the institution into a sort of private enterprise or absolute monarchy in which appointments and terminations are to the finger and the eventual employment of those working in his office is the norm. They cannot close their eyes to complaints from administrators who obtain favourable rulings by arguing against the Administration, and instead defend the Administration against citizens so that the ruling that recognizes citizens' rights against the Administration is a wet paper for this interventionist Administration. There must be the syndic defending the rights of the citizens and not those of the administration that runs over them. One cannot close one's eyes to the partisan use of public buildings, exhibiting party propaganda that does not share all citizenship, and the defender of the people cannot close his eyes to these abuses of the administrations. He cannot close his eyes, the defender of the people, in the face of attacks on university students by certain people, even more having a conseller of Universitats who points to the young people of an association calling them fascists. You have to stand by young people who want to exercise their freedoms and against the administration that goes beyond pointing out and limiting those freedoms. It cannot, in short, stop defending people against the abuse of deeply ideological and never neutral rulers that we have, which we are having in recent years in Catalonia. If you come to do the same as your predecessor, Mr Ribó, every cent of your salary is undeserved, as was Mr Ribó's salary and position. We also regret that their appointment was the product of a shameful pact between the socialists and the most radical separatism that governs us today. In January 2019 we put forward a bill to ensure that the appointment of the trustee was made with the assurance that the appointed person had the necessary skills and impartiality required for the position, as well as that there were limitations on the duration of the position and to avoid the situations that have arisen with his predecessor. But this appointment derives from the same pacts in which socialists and separatists were divided other positions, for example, that of Mrs Meritxell Borràs, who has been appointed director of the Agency for Data Protection, having been condemned for her participation in the referendum of October One, the false referendum, which was precisely made with data stolen from Catalans. We cannot support this pact; therefore, we will vote no for its appointment. It is true that the articles you have published in the Ara newspaper supporting the condemned in the secessionist plan make it clear [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] What do you think – and I finish, President – but in a democracy everyone thinks what he wants, votes what he wants and does what he wants, in fact, while respecting the rights of others. Then, what can be demanded of him is that he be able to exercise his work with honesty, loyalty to the duties of his office and political impartiality. You enjoy the benefit of my group's doubt. We'll start from scratch today. We will vote not for the pact that has made it syndicated, but we hope that you will gain the confidence of all Catalans day by day with your work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.13.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, to welcome Mrs Giménez-Salinas; also the people who are with us today, which seems to culminate in her appointment as a trade union for heavy goods goods. A few days ago, at your hearing, you were telling us that you are no one's union in relation to your candidacy. Unfortunately, it is, while its appointment is due to a joint pact between the Socialist Party and the parties that support the government – Junts and Esquerra – where several agencies were negotiated, such as the Union of Accounts or the CAC, among others. We have been very critical of these appointments, both in terms of form and substance, how they have been elected and by whom they have chosen for those positions. It is true that perhaps the latter does not apply to his case, and I believe that it is the unanimous opinion of the chamber, at least for the speeches we have heard so far, with some exception. It is true that you have a curriculum and a path that endorse it, and therefore go ahead that you have our respect in this regard. But, even so, we too are going to vote against this appointment, because we cannot support a pact that, far from trying to seek consensus, the only thing I was looking for was how to distribute the charges. You also wished at that hearing that, in six years' time, when your term ended, the members of the Greuges Synod Commission would think it had been a wise decision. The truth, that I have to tell you that a priori it seems to have it quite easy, because doing the worst that Mr Ribó will cost – it will cost –; let's hope it doesn't. The truth is that he left us, Mr Ribó, the bar on the floor. He was a syndic of part, unrepresentative of Catalan society, a further extension of the Government, another structure of the process and a syndic removed from reality and whose attitude has left the usefulness of the institution of the union of hardships in question. And this seems very serious to us, because Catalan society has lost confidence in the Greuges Synod, and I think you have the challenge ahead of you to regain that confidence from Catalans again in an institution like this, which is to protect them, or should be to protect them. We are skeptical at first, but yes, as I said, he has our respect and also our confidence, and let us hope that from now on the whole situation can be reversed. Mr Ribó, as we said, not only made, or makes, totally biased reports, but has also been involved in several scandals. And until the last day Mr Ribó wanted to cover himself with glory by presenting a final report on the Pegasus case. He says: "Vulnerations of the rights to privacy, defence and other rights. He already gives us a spoiler in the title, Mr Ribó, in case someone thought it was going to be an objective and neutral analysis of the issue. It has also requested, commissioned two investigations on its own initiative, and also requested that it do so, to be investigated by the Ombudsman. I didn't see him so worried when the ones we were spying on were the constitutionalists. I therefore reiterate once again that he was a party trustee and that he only cared about the nationalist sector, and the rest of the Catalans seemed to care very little, and I refer to the evidence, because there is no report on the rights that were also violated on that occasion. In any case, I don't think you have to charge with your predecessor's mistakes, and therefore erase and count new and we start stage. As I was saying, we hope that you will be a syndicate that does work for the Catalans as a whole. And even though that bar, as I was saying, is low, you have a great challenge ahead, which is to restore prestige to an institution that, as I say, is deposed and degraded, or has been deposed and degraded in recent years. Therefore, from here we will be waiting for those reports that will emerge from this new stage within the union of heavyweights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.15.0	On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Quim Jubert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.16.0	President, Members, Members, Mrs Giménez-Salinas... Today we are called upon to re-vote, after two years, the appointment of a syndic of heavyweights. For the first time in the history of this figure in Catalonia, a syndicate, Mrs Esther Giménez-Salinas. We must congratulate ourselves that three groups of this chamber have agreed to renew various bodies with expired charges, despite the criticisms of those who did not participate, and that this is probably why they will not give him the vote, despite recognizing the suitability of the sorted person. The union or defender of the people must be an independent and prepared person, and the résumé of Mrs. Giménez-Salinas shows enough that it meets these two qualities, among many others. Thirty years ago she was a lawyer for restorative justice, because the prison must be the last resort and must not be associated with revenge. What will be the new syndicate has visited more than five hundred prisoners of the world; therefore, it knows how little the reality of these rights, where we often tank people that the society has not known or could not keep between us. The Catalan judicial system is exemplary, but it has much room for improvement, and this is indissolubly associated with resources that it does not have and some investments that cannot last long because, unfortunately, there are always others that seem to be priorities. But, MPs and MPs, remember that we're arresting you are the watchman of society, and not the catchers of people who at some point may have committed a crime. We are sure that the syndicate will continue to do a good job in monitoring the respect of human rights in our commissions and prisons, where a deal worth much more for rehabilitation and reintegration into our society than strictly repressive measures, as was done later this year by the syndicate Ribó, so late. The role of the syndic is not to please the public powers, but to make of cork, giving sight to what least media have to make themselves felt. The past year has recorded more than thirty thousand complaints, of which the official-per-cent of the Administration has been attached. This only demonstrates the importance of your task and the degree of influence that your work entails. We wish him much luck and certainty, because this will be the demonstration that we have sorted out the person in question. And so much good also has a reflex in reducing citizens' complaints, because it will prove that we are going in the right direction to build a fairer and more solid society. For all that I have just said, our group will vote in favour of its appointment as the trade union for heavy goods goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.17.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.18.0	Thank you, President. Greeting, of course, to Mrs. Giménez-Salinas. As we already sent it to the committee that we celebrated last week, reiterate our support from the Republican Left. In fact, last week at the committee we were able to talk to you. He made the presentation, a rest of his entire career, his extensive curriculum, and he said that what's personal is professional and what's professional is personal. We were able to get to know her better and, in fact, we observed that we share many points of view: the import of restorative justice, the import of putting victims in the center, the import of juvenile justice and with justice – and you yourself commented – was marked by a masculinized culture. In fact, from here on we reiterate, in the band of our support, the need to feminize all institutions. So, we're happy, and very happy, that the new syndicate is, by the way, a woman. And it's that, as we said, women can do it all. And today it's a big deal that we've been back listening to in this chamber speeches from the extreme right with the proposition that they were commenting that we should suppress Catalan institutions and, in fact, institutions as classy as the union of heavyweights, that we don't forget that their task, precisely, is to defend the rights and freedoms of all citizens. Let us hope, moreover, that from this organization, from the work in commissions, from the union, it continues with this important support in order to be able to have more knowledge of the complaints, petitions and all the suggestions of better. Because, in short, we are defending the rights, as I said, of all the people of our country. The reps are too many, and they won't be easy people, but we're sure everything will be done. We also wanted to remember that Catalans and Catalans are still living, one more year, in a climate of repression. We continue to have exiles and exiles in our country, open judicial cases and still pending resolutions; we suffer an offensive against our language and political espionage, and, moreover, with extreme right-wing parties that whiten their fascist speeches on the side of this chamber. So we're going to re-encourage her, that the task won't be easy, but we're sure she'll do it: put people in the center and defend the rights of the whole city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3401.19.0	Well, then, after the speeches are over, I shall call for a vote, because we shall proceed to vote on the election of the trade union of heavy goods vehicles in an electronic and secret manner, in accordance with Rule 101.1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Long break.]] Having done the three mandatory voting criteria, the record that, according to Article 8.1 of the Law, the election will have to be for a majority of three_five_parts. [[Pause.]] And now it looks like we already have all the deputies in the room. The vote begins. The vote was resolved by 91 votes to 39. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Well, therefore, as the majority of the three five parties have obtained, it is designated as the union of heavyweights by Mrs Esther Giménez-Salinas, whom I congratulate. And I will remind him of a saying by Sòfocles, which said: "To be useful for what is tea and can be the most beautiful work of a mortal. I said "Sòfocles," I told Tiresies, the king's edip, and Carles Riba brought it to us. That it is useful for what you have and what you will do, because that will be the Catalan society. Thank you very much. And raise the session.
