ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.1.0	Good afternoon. The session begins. This is the first Pleth of 2022 and with this we start a pleth of three days, with which we will start the second session period. The list of questions to be answered orally in full shall be included in the file of the plenary and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, shall be replaced tomorrow morning, as set out in the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Before starting the order of the day, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are a total of thirty-five victims of death and disappearances in the Mediterranean, according to which the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies for the collection of migrants. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau of 21 December on measures to prevent the transmission of the virus causing covid-19 and meeting the current health conditions, there are sixty-four Members who have delegated their vote. Further, and from the Bureau Agreement of the Parliament of Catalonia of 24 genera of 2022 to file an administrative appeal and request precautionary measures before the Supreme Court, I propose, in accordance with the powers conferred on me by Article 83.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, to alter the order of the day per submeter to the approval of the Plenary the Bureau Agreement, relating to the presentation of these appeals, as well as the interposition, as the saying, of the precautionary measures, requesting the suspension of the execution of the ECJ Agreement by 20 genera of 2022. We would therefore proceed, first of all, to the vote on the enlargement of the agenda with this new item. So we proceed to this vote... [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.2.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.3.0	Ah! I was donating voting instructions... [[Rialles.]] So don't give me my voting instructions, because... [[Widow's remorse.]] Ah, sorry, call it a vote. Well, as I understand that the members that we have to vote for are the ones that we are in the House... but actually, we are calling. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this amendment to the agenda. The vote begins. The vote on the agenda was 115 votes in favour and 21 against. Given, therefore, the result of this enlargement of the order of the day, achieved by an absolute majority, we extend the order of the day with this new point. [[Proposal for a resolution on the filing of an administrative appeal against Central Electoral Board Agreement 2/2022 of the 20th generation]] [[395-00283/13]] The point, as I have already mentioned, is that the Bureau yesterday agreed to bring an appeal before the Supreme Court against the agreement of the 20-generation Central Electoral Board to the House of Commons. Before the vote, therefore, I proceed to read out this agreement which we raise in the House: "The Parliament of Catalonia agrees to file an administrative appeal and to request precautionary measures before the Supreme Court against the Agreement of the Electoral Board 2/2022, of the 20th generation, issuing number 251/662, for which it is declared that it competes in Mr. Pau Juvillà and Ballester the cause of ineligibility over which Article 6.2.b refers, of the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime, and that it leaves no effect on his credentials as an elected deputy and declares the vacancy as a deputy and proceeds to issue the credentials to the next candidate of the candidate of the candidate of the People's Unity Candidate - A Noccle per Guanyar. This is the agreement that we arrived at yesterday at the table. And now, after reading, if there is any parliamentary group that wants to speak, it will have five minutes. If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco? Would you like to intervene?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.4.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.5.0	Perfect. So you have the word for a maximum of five minutes... [[Strong remorse of sight and pause.]] We have a problem, because in the vote there are 136 votes, and that is obviously not possible, because there are 135 Members. And, besides, there's no deputy from the PP present. Therefore, we do not understand whether the voting system has failed. Everyone's sitting at the place that's been looking for him, and no one's taken a vote...? [[Widow's remorse.]] Just a moment, huh? But I'm wondering if it's actually a misinformation, if we have to repeat the vote... [[Widow's remorse.]] We understand that everyone voted for him alone; no one voted for any other Member. [[Pause.]] So, let's go back to voting. And we'll see if the problem is an informational recount. Okay? [[Pause.]] I'll do the call again. [[Pause.]] Very well, therefore, having made the three calls to vote, let us again vote on the modification of the agenda. The vote begins. Now, the change in the order of the day was 114 votes in favour and 22 votes against. And, therefore, they continue to amount to 136. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's just... the PP isn't there, and it's 135. And the delegated votes are all accounted for. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? It's obviously a mistake that someone of you, who has accumulated the polling station of the deputies who aren't there... there's one more. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's obvious, because they count here automatically.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.6.0	President, we should stop the plenary to review the fact that the voting delegations have done well. I can feel it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.7.0	I'm informed that they're going to do this review of the voting delegations that have been girls to some of the spokespersons they've assigned, and they're going to do the review of the computer system. We suspend the Ple for a quarter of an hour because we can do this review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.8.0	All right, then. Solved the problem, which we've already snuck where it was. They've figured it out... it's that now the bell's gone. Now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, now, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's not the voting bell, but it's the same. We've already made fun of what's happened. VOX's delegated votes have been calculated twice, the delegation more the votes that were in the presence here in the Chamber. Now. All right. Well, now, yes. Having made the three calls to vote and having the system, in principle, already corrected, we proceed to the vote of the alteration of the agenda. The vote begins. And now, the result of the vote is 115 votes in favour and 17 votes against. Therefore, as we have already read the Bureau's agreement to vote in plenary, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.9.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place I want to start this brief intervention that I will make today remembering a person, a brave politician, a political skirt, a person, in the end, who had a great esteem for Catalan culture, for Catalan language, for the participation of Catalonia in the joint of Spain, which is Mr Joaquim Viola and Sauret, who was murdered forty-four years ago for the terrorist band Terra Lliure. And I want to remember, above all, the trauma he creates in a family, surely forever, an event of these characteristics. I want to remember all his family because I think they deserve recognition and that, unfortunately, in this Parliament many times he is dead, as in the case of Mr. Viola and Mr. Sauret who, I insist, was murdered by the terrorist band Terra Lliure for whom we have seen on some occasion, therefore, too much condescension in this Parliament. [[Some applause.]] That said, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we are voting for a new anomaly in this Parliament. Simply because we are voting for an appeal to defend a person who has been convicted, a member of the Bureau who has been convicted of a crime of disobedience, that the LOREG, the general electoral law, makes it clear that in the event of a conviction of incapacity for offences against the Public Administration, this must, let us say, be the enforceability of the immediate sentence, even though the sentence is not firm. And, therefore, Mr Juvilà is no longer a Member of this Parliament in agreement with the state of law, with the courts, with the ultimate agreement with liberal democracy in reasonable terms. And, on the other hand, we are in this Parliament voting on an appeal that the Bureau of Parliament wants to bring and that, moreover, wants to vote on something that is, in some way, trying to subvert what is normal as a result of judicial proceedings. Is there an appeal? Is there a possibility of filing appeals? That he's present. I think this should be done by Mr Juvillà personally and not by the Bureau or Parliament in his name. Because we remember that if in the accounts of Mr Juvilà the sentence was a deputy of another parliamentary group, of a constitutionalist group, for example, for a crime that seems to be, I am convinced, but convinced, that the Bureau and Parliament would not be doing everything they are doing to try to postpone the execution of this sentence. Says my company, Anna Grau, often the citizens, when we face the consequences of our criminal acts, we do not have the opportunity to choose when a sentence is executed. If we're one of our own, we have to take the sentence, and we have to take the sentence when you say so. In change, here in this Parliament, it seems that someone claims to say that we have a right to choose, to choose the moment when we are more or less interested in completing a sentence. I think this is absolutely anomalous. And, therefore, the only thing that should be done by the President of Parliament is to withdraw the Minutes from Mr Juvilla. And from here on, that Mr Juvillà is defended before the courts with his legitimate personal interest, but, obviously, by not putting the servants of Parliament and the resources of the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia to the service of a person, in this case of a secretary of the Bureau, who very legitimately wants to appeal, but who does so, who does not make us pay to the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia his appeal before the courts. I think this is something that any reasonable city can hear. I insist, this sentence must be executed. It is a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that has, logically, the endorsement, also, of the Central Electoral Board. And what is not reasonable is that in a Parliament we vote on judicial decisions. It's absolutely anomalous. And we're voting for something that, I insist, is a pure fallacy. He didn't feel he was presenting as a normal thing that in democracy is not in absolute normal. Tocqueville said that the greatest protection against the tyranny of political assemblies is precisely the submission of actions, actions, parliamentary and political acts to the courts. And, indeed, it is the greatest protection, the greatest safeguard that a democracy has against the totalitarian intentions of those who represent a majority in a parliamentary chamber. I think this is something that needs to be made clear. And, therefore, we, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, have already warned that, insofar as this constitutes an obvious disobedience to the courts, logically, we will denounce this before the Central Electoral Board, because, I insist, it is important to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia together that this group of martingals who have normalized themselves in the Parliament of Catalonia ceases to occur, ceases to pass and succeed once and for all to normalize parliamentary life in our community. Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.10.0	Are there any other groups that want to intervene? [[Pause.]] Yes, you have the word Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.11.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Well, we didn't plan on making any kind of intervention, but in view of the intervention made by the representative of Ciutadans, obviously we have to say something. You see, here we don't vote on judicial decisions. By judicial decision, there is one, which is the sentence handed down on his day by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which condemns MP Pau Juvillà for a crime of disobedience. But here we are not voting on judicial decisions. Here we are voting on an administrative act issued by the Central Electoral Board. So don't tell us that we're doing no kind of martingal or anything strange because we're doing something absolutely reasonable and that comes within the parameters of liberal democracy to which you refer. Nor is there, at present, any type of disobedience in any court or all the considerations that you have made. Here's a subject of sobriety. In our view, the Central Electoral Board, on the understanding of the CUP, is not competent to resolve the situation of Mr Pau Juvillà, whether or not to withdraw his credentials as a Member, because we understand that this is a competence that corresponds to the Parliament of Catalonia which has a statute of autonomy and an applicable regulation. Therefore, as we are in a conflict of sovereignty, a conflict of competence, in which the Central Electoral Board stands up as competent and the Parliament of Catalonia, the legislature, too, understands that it has much to say about this matter. And what we will not do will be to abide by an administrative act, an act dictated by the Central Electoral Board, but what is meant is to discuss, as is the whole right to discuss, the legitimacy of this act. LOREG can determine all the causes of ineligibility, survivals, non-survivors, but, I repeat, here is a decision that the Parliament of Catalonia has already taken, was notified of the judgment given by the TSJ to the Parliament of Catalonia, and the Parliament, when notified of the judgment of the TSJ, gives account of this judgment to the Committee of the State of the Deputy who issues an opinion, as set out in the planned procedures, it is said that it does not compete with any cause of incompatibility or loss of the condition of the Member. And, later, the plenary of this Parliament, on 17 December, for a large majority, also approves a resolution ratifying the opinion of the Commission of the European Parliament. Why? So because parliamentary incompatibilities are close, in our view, to parliamentary law and must be applied by parliamentary bodies, precisely using parliamentary autonomy. It is a pity that the only place this Parliament can go, and this Parliament has to do so because Mr Pau Juvilla is still waiting for the Central Electoral Board to notify him of the opportunity to participate in this process on which he has resolved his condition, but it is a pity that this Parliament only has the opportunity to appeal to this act which it has issued before the Supreme Court. We would understand that this, in the background, is a positive conflict of competition in which there are two bodies that are competent, but as we cannot control, we cannot conflict with the Central Electoral Board because it is a strange configuration that we do not know who it is, because it does not answer to the State Administration, this Parliament making use of its sovereignty and making use of the faculties that it has in its abyss that it does, with all the legitimacy of the world, is to seek this decision of the Central Electoral Board. And let's hope that this decision to resort to this administrative act is backed up by more Members of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.12.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vinyets. Are there any other parliamentary groups that want to intervene? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.13.0	Thank you, President. In a very brief way, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, our support to the secretary Juvilla from this Faristol. We have done this on repeated occasions in private and also in public, but today we are closing it down from this chamber. Also thank you to the Bureau to veto our rights as Members and to preserve the sovereignty of Parliament with the resulting separation of powers. Justice has long wanted to change what has democratically been chosen in the ballot boxes, and it has long wanted to prevent democratic ballots from making it possible to decide the future of Catalans. Our thanks from here, President Borràs, for representing the institution of the Parliament of Catalonia, as it was committed to doing in your investment speech. Defending popular sovereignty expressed in ballot boxes is the most essential in democracy and is what you do every day. Today we are grateful to you and to the Bureau, as we would have liked at some other time in the recent history of this institution. At your side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.14.0	Thank you very much. Then you have the word Ms. Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.15.0	Thank you. Thank you very much, President. Also in a very short form to expose our position. We are here again to defend the rights of a Member, who is to defend, by extension, the rights of all Members and Members of this Chamber; to defend the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, because we are again in a new exercise of an arbitrariness and a new repressive maneuver. And, therefore, before these legal absurdities exist, before this obsessive persecution of Spanish justice, what we have to do with ourselves and what we have to do is a political step. And, therefore, defending us, defending ourselves as we are here today, defending ourselves, defending ourselves, defending ourselves in the face of attempts to disable us is also a more form of political denunciation and, moreover, we do so together. It's an obligation and it's a responsibility. We've seen some people criticise it today, some attack it and come out in this cliff to say that this can't be done. They are the ones who seek the judicial complicity, the complicity of the courts, the complicity of the courts because they have lost the confidence of the citizenry in the ballot box. They're the only ones left in the courts. We will always call and defend the majorities, democracy and what the polls say. That is why we are doing, what we have done repeatedly since this Parliament, what we are doing and what we are doing from the Bureau as now as before and, therefore, we are continuing. That is why, today, we in Parliament support the ratification of this Bureau agreement so that we can bring this demand, this administrative resolution of the Central Electoral Board, and we have all the right – we have all the right. It is neither a question of anomalies nor a question of martingales. Here what we do is basically use the tools of the legal order to defend us before the obsessive persecution of those who seek the complicity of the courts because they have lost the confidence of the ballot boxes. Therefore, the JEC sees how it wants to..., the Central Electoral Board sees how it wants to be a judge, how it wants to be a citizen, who really listens to the majority. In any case, we see how the JEC wants to be a judge, when it is an administrative organ, when it is only dedicated to processing, communicating or, in any case, publishing the electoral lists, but it cannot decide them, because who decides them, who decides the deputies of this chamber is the majority, is citizenship through the ballot box, through democracy. This is democracy and this is its bressol and, therefore, it is our obligation and our responsibility as Members and Members, with the sovereignty that has attached to us and that we have in representation of the citizenship of our country, to defend us, that at once is to take a step forward to denounce always, always, as always, political repression and to be on the side of those who are persecuted. Therefore, all the support, Pau, and all the support also to this appeal of the Bureau of Parliament; thank you also the step to the Bureau of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.16.0	Thank you very much. Are there any other groups that want to intervene? [[Pause.]] Okay. So, then, remembering once more that we are exercising our powers as the Parliament of Catalonia and that we agree with the legal order, according to which this House voted and agreed with the Bureau of Parliament, we therefore proceed to the vote for the interposition of this administrative appeal and the precautionary measures associated with it before the Supreme Court for the maintenance of the record of the deputy Pau Juvillà. The vote begins. The result of the vote was 81 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 33 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Question to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights]] [[300-00089/13]] Let us turn to the sixth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the guarantee of cultural rights, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pom. You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry Mrs Jessica Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.17.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, welcome to this new part-session, which I hope is very productive and which we are starting today by talking about culture, and not just culture but culture as a right, as a right that must be guaranteed and that, if we really consider that it is a right to guarantee and that implies the freedoms and rights of all Catalans and Catalans, we will have to work. During the pandemic we have seen the importance of culture as a main tool, for example, to combat the anguish, the sadness of the wings, the loss of loved ones, and the mental salvation that has been spoken of in this hemisphere, fortunately, during the last few months. But not only because of this emotional support that culture gives us, but because we need a critical citizenship with sufficient means to be a protagonist, culture is an element..., it is the element, in fact, that gives us this autonomy and this critical feeling, and we need now, in this pandemic context – and so much of a post-pandemic aviate – a country where thought and emotion prevail; and this is the only one that will make us move forward. Moreover, in this context of the last few months, the cultural sector has also taken a step forward with very generous, unprecedented, initiative actions resulting from the immediate reflection on what was happening to the pandemic, its social impact and the recognition, in short, of its phone book as the point of finding and socialization. Moreover, the sector's precarious working environment, a sector lacking sufficient protection mechanisms, has also led to uncertainty about the future of many public and private projects. They can't, therefore, go back to normal like this. The cultural policy of the Government of Catalonia considers that it must take strength in the democratizing and predisposing will of culture, because if we also strengthen in the educational sphere, for example, the cultural motxilla, we are also predisposing resources and incidence in these socioeconomic differences that affect access to culture. And a country like Catalonia can't profile itself before this reality. And speaking of culture as right is not a new issue. From article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to 48, it speaks of access to culture; in article 44 of the Spanish Constitution, in article 22 of the Statute of Autonomy we also find the declaration of culture as a right. It is present in many standard texts. It's no novelty, but it's in the band of unenforceable rights, of these rights that are..., that serve as inspiration, but that they don't do well to guarantee, and we believe that, from the government, from the generality, it would have to do even more to ensure that this right is a reality. And you yourself, counsel, in the initial appearance you made during the month of July, seven months ago, spoke of the fact that we all agree that culture is an essential good, but that is what is translated into an effective right and for this reason we would push – I do – "a law of cultural rights that recognizes this essential character. And the motive and purpose of this inquiry is: first of all, we want to know how the plan is to guarantee these cultural rights – we will have a proposal for law quickly – and, meanwhile, we also want to know who the governance plan is for..., from its government action, to recognize the role of the citizenry as an active, right-wing and right-wing agent. And then, in the first place, we would like to have information, to ask the Government about this issue. Secondly, to us, from In Comú Pode and from the predisposition that we have to contribute and add, we would like to mark some lines that, from our perspective, would imply the fact of taking the mark of cultural rights to initiate legislative action and also the actions of government. And, in the third place, obviously offer and extend the hand to all parliamentary groups of this chamber committed to the cultural sector and to the fact that culture must be an essential asset for us to be able to work. And we want to know about this subject in concrete terms because there is not enough to declare it, with declaring culture as essential, which this Parliament has done, if then there are no policies and legislation that endorse this declaration. And, if it's true that Catalonia's assumptions have reflected an increase, we are fully aware that we are a long way from arriving at this two-per-cent, and that it is not now guaranteed, and that the sector continues to be complaining. As well as some administrations, such as the Barcelona Assembly, in an exemplary way, dedicate a six_per_cent to it. But beyond the figures – which, of course, are important – it is now essential that this reversal and this premise – which, for the moment, is what we have – not only goes for business grants, but above all gathers and goes to us creators and creators, to community culture, which is deployed throughout the territory of Catalonia, giving an area of dignity and recognition to the diversity that we have in our country. So also... well, she'll tell us, she'll advise, because when the law doesn't come up, which is the government's plan. And, coming into the second part of this question, as we have said before, we want to be pro-active and share it as, from our parliamentary group, we believe that we need to take a political look at culture, focusing on this political character of culture, without reducing politics to the mere game of party interests, but in the best sense of politics. And, in this line, talking about cultural rights is not just talking about infrastructures that facilitate access to resources, because the political sense of culture connects with a look that starts from a process that passes in the current. What happens to the dialect we establish or not with the cultural sector, not just with the industries, but with the social movements, with the movements of barrels, of the small towns, which are culture and which believe culture. And, starting from here too, and building on the experience and recognition that Barcelona has had with the cultural rights platform, we consider that a Catalan law of cultural rights – and government action – should be articulated through vectors such as the following – and I will try to name them and then we will talk more about them. Decentralization and new centralities. It is not only about bringing culture to the people, but it is about finding new centralities, how we see it, how we support the culture of everything, of all Catalonia, how we gather it, because it can develop in the best possible conditions, because sometimes we complain a lot about the centrality of Madrid, but Catalonia is also not the same being in Bergedà and cannot have the same access to culture one person from Bergedà than in Barcelona, and that cannot be. In fact, there are many art centers in the country that end up with cultural programming in a proper and independent art circuit. So here we're supposed to go. Second place, access. It's impossible not to talk about access, but to develop cultural policies no..., when we talk about access we don't mean as if culture was something to consume, but it would have to take very much into account the right to access cultural communities, to be able to form part of these cultural communities and to be able to get out too, if we consider it opportune. And, in the third place, we also refer to creation, to the support we give to creation. And here we go again: not just from a point of view of industry, but as we go to the most community-based, more basic, more popular expressions. And here, when we talk about this support for creation, it is impossible not to talk about the struggle against precariousness in the sector and the strengthening of the country's economic and productive fabric. And last but not least, cultural practices with an intersectoral perspective. We think it's an impulse to recognize the role of the citizenry from the right to self-representation, don't we? There are these sections of the population that have not had a hegemonic participation in the world of culture. During the reply, I will be more in touch with this relationship with social movements and with all the Community fabric in Catalonia must be key in this sense. Here we must also strengthen what is popular culture, popular cultures, always from an intercultural perspective that encloses all the diversity of our territory, as we also incorporate sectors of citizenship that have not participated in this type of decision, incorporating interculturality as an effective tool for the recognition of individual and collective cultural rights. We would like to know the Commissioner's answer in the first part and, in any case, we will continue to respond by commenting on more proposals that we could have from our parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.18.0	Then there's the Culture Advisor, Mrs. Nattalia Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.19.0	Thank you, President. Bona tarda, MP Jessica González, and Bona tarda the good years to the rest of MPs and MPs. I thank the honourable Member first for her willingness to work together and work together; I am sure we will find ourselves very much, because we have, you will see, a great deal in common. Placing citizenship at the centre of culture and culture at the centre of public policies means providing us with a powerful instrument of transformation and social inclusion; it also means strengthening our cultural, creative, professional, associative and entrepreneurial fabric. Understanding the transformative meaning of culture is key to finding the best opportunities to expand the social segments compromised with progress, equity and social cohesion. We put culture at the centre of society, and it will not only improve the welfare, but also, mainly, the democratic quality of our country. That's why the right to culture is so decisive, and that's why we talk about culture as part of human rights, as an essential good, as you said. This is the hope that both the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity of 2001 and the Friburg Declaration on Cultural Rights of 2007. It is important to promote cultural democratisation, so that culture reaches all citizens, without exclusions, but also cultural democracy, is to say that everyone has the opportunity to create, to participate, to become involved in cultural projects. From the department, we understand culture, therefore, as the fourth pot of the welfare state. Therefore, cultural freedom and universal access to culture must become the backbone of the country's civic values. To encourage critical thinking, you said; to promote access to knowledge, to promote creativity and to stimulate cultural joy in all its forms of expression. We agree that there are various factors that condition access to cultural practice, and I am not referring solely and exclusively to questions relating to architectural and sensory barriers, but to social, educational, economic, origin or language aspects, to give just a few examples. We are aware, however, that putting cultural assets at the disposal of the citizenry does not guarantee that everyone can access it with equal opportunities. The specific conditions of each individual and of each collection end up conditioning the possibility of accessing culture and developing artistic creation, for which the culture must be inclusive and adapted to everyone's needs, because the citizenry can enjoy the benefits that culture brings to growth and to personal and social realization. Because the fact that a part of the population cannot fully participate in the cultural life of a country does not only violate the rights of these people, but also undermines the totality of the population, leaves a good part of its members behind and loses the created capital that these people can contribute. For all this, the action of the Department of Culture has been centered, since the first day, on four main axes of action that I have been able to explain and develop in its parliament, both in commission and in this hemisphere, which, as we recall, are the transformation, concrete in the construction of a cultural system of reference; the access to culture, an area where absolutely everyone has to feel included; the language, as a cohesive and vertebrate element of Catalan society, and the audiovisual sector, a sector that includes an economic engine, a source of innovation and digital transformation, a generator of specialized occupation and social influence. The first and second axes are inseparable and central to ensure cultural democratisation. Without solid cultural institutions, working in the network, taking advantage of the full potential of the public and private sector, the generality and local administrations, we will hardly be able to promote public cultural policies throughout the city. And they also call, of course, resources, another of the key elements to guarantee the right to culture; and hence our commitment to reach the two-per-cent of the Generality's assumption at the end of the legislature; resources and a cultural system of solid and well-structured reference that uses them with maximum efficiency. The cultural community or the program contracts with the great cultural equipments are, for example, key fish because each euro invested in culture has the maximum transformative potential for all citizens. In concrete relation to the second, the reference to access to culture, in my appearance of iniciators of the legislature already announced that we would promote a law of cultural rights that recognizes both the essential right of a person to cultural expression as well as to have access to the cultural production of the country. From the first steps of the new department, we have been focused on this objective ambition, and for this reason, during this first quarter, we will approve the government's preliminary memoir of the pre-draft law and make public consultation; a law which will aim to ensure that cultural activities are accessible and inclusive, so that no person or collector is left out for economic, social or other reasons. Unfortunately, we know that there are barriers of all kinds because everyone can access cultural products and, surely, even more, to be able to participate actively in cultural creation. Our public policies and the draft law that we are pushing must prioritize the minimization of these barriers, devoting resources to those most vulnerable sectors, establishing regulations that remove existing barriers, because it has been shown that cultural practice is an effective tool for people and social groups to overcome the schools that prevent them from enjoying a fuller life and participate in the transformation of their environment, which reinforces the transformative role of culture. Entities from many different backgrounds have long incorporated cultural projects into their programs for social inclusion and transformation, experiences that have proved very effective and that have generated a positive return for the city's conjunction. The drafting of the law will also establish the mechanisms that guarantee the recognition of cultural diversity; interculturality and the right to freedom of cultural identity will be elements of integration and cohesion of the Catalan society; it will promote and protect the cultural and linguistic diversity of our country, as well as its identity, material and intangible heritage, traditions, creativity, artistic languages, etc. In short, it will define culture as a dynamic and living process. It is at this point when culture, therefore, is key to achieving equal opportunities and ensuring non-discrimination. But, as we guarantee basic rights to people, we must be able to set up a cultural reference system that facilitates artistic creation in all its variants, promoting the diversification and increase of the public that participates in the cultural activities that are produced in Catalonia. The law will establish mechanisms to ensure and protect the right of creators and creators in relation to aspects such as the freedom of creation and expression of artists, the defence of intellectual property, the right to just and dignified working conditions and the impulse to entrepreneurship. It will also determine the obligations of administrations, social and sectoral agents and public equipment for which it makes funding and the impulse for recognition, promotion and promotion of culture programs. These will have to be done with the elaboration, application and development of the different action plans of genera, accessibility and inclusion, and will have to take into account the characteristics of the collections to which they are directed and the reality of the social fabric of the surroundings of the equipment. The law, therefore, will also strive for an effective articulation of the Catalan cultural system, for its correct financing, to define the obligations of public administrations, cultural equipment and social and sectoral agents; it is to say, to regulate the key aspects of the cultural system in Catalonia. The tools can be many in the long run, and the process of drafting the law, with the participation of citizens and cultural actors, must serve us to know who can be the most useful. In short, with this law, the country can have a very powerful legislative framework that can become a reference to Europe and that allows, now, to define culture as the fourth pot of the welfare state and guarantee the right to access and to cultural participation. But to push and apply many of the cultural policies that must guarantee the right to access to culture cannot wait to have the new law passed. In fact, the Department of Culture is already pushing actions and programs to ensure this right, and we have many examples – that's what you've been calling the "while," and I also want to explain the while at this counter-replication we're going to do, and we can talk about the Barcelona Junction and the creation plan and these themes that will leave us a little more inclined to the counter-replication. And the presuppositional growth, which has been so important – this two-per-cent growth – will allow us to strengthen these programs and help lines. The department will work during this legislature to consolidate and expand the actions related to culture, health and welfare, and the law of cultural rights is the key piece of the gear. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.20.0	Thank you very much. It has the word, in the turn of reply, Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.21.0	Well, thank you, Counselor. Well, we have a given, we have a _mark, a calendar to work on: the first quarter we'll have the foreground, and from here we'll work. I think that, well, the approach that you have made and the complementarity of the specific measures that you will now consider will be more concrete than, in government action, while we have the legislative framework, so we can move forward on this issue. A specific question that also takes into account the legislative process that will begin and that has to do with aspects that have remained in my mind in the previous intervention..., in the absence of this prospect of co-production of public policies or co-production of legislative mark, in this case, and the dialogue with social movements, right? Here we believe that cultural policies should strengthen this cross-sectoral perspective and deploy all the potential to promote the active plural participation of women, young people, large people, non-white people, all people, in short, who do not comply with a norm, right? , androcentric, heterosexual, etcetera, of cultural life. And this law... and how government action, too, promotes that it's suppressing barriers? Here's a great topic, which is the subject of grants, and how you access grants, when you make the magnifying glass and see in seconds of collection, right? ... – racialized collectivities, which is one of the cases we have more about and more information about – so there is a clear lack of access to subsidies, isn't there? So, how we create a legislative_framework and how government action can help remove these barriers, right? And this is the participation, what we say, of all these collections that come from the norm..., should be given on equal terms, right? So much in access to cultural practices and artistic formation... that it is also a great topic, as we guarantee this long-lived education taking into account all these socio-economic inequalities that you yourself have also considered, counsel, the expression of narratives, the imaginary, communication media, audiovisual production, which is another axis, isn't it? As we guarantee that the expression and development of these new individual and collective identities, as well as the taking of decisions, especially in the public and private and Community spheres, takes this perspective. I believe that it is a great challenge not only in the legislative framework but in the department as it should be taken into account and consolidated. And this action, as we say, can't be disconnected from the current context, can it? And here we must clearly recognize the active role of movements, feminist movement, anti-racist movement, the LGTBI collection, right? And as communication and co-production bridges are somehow established, we insist, so much on the development of the legislative framework, don't we? , as in the development of government action. I also lacked, Counselor, a little bit more concrete in terms of precariousness, precariousness at work. You talked about concrete, didn't you? , and the support to the sector of the creation in abstract, but wanted to know if specifically, taking into account the specific characteristics of the sector, right? , which they have to see with temporality, which they have to see with informality, which they have to see with the lack of inspections, etc., how we can move forward, and, I repeat, both at the level of the normal market and of government action in this sense that I think the sector is vehemently demanding from us. This inquiry seeks, as I said before, to make a bet so that we share our vision and our willingness to cooperate not only with the Government, but with all the parliamentary groups that form part of this chamber, to advance and ensure that so much good this legislature can actually shield cultural rights with a government action and with a _marc law that guarantees access, that guarantees production, that guarantees that Catalonia will come true, regardless of the postal code where it was born, has access to produce, create and ultimately access culture. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.22.0	I, then, have the word, in the turn of reply, the Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.23.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, we share with the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can this..., the conviction that culture is a tool of inclusion and of absolutely indispensable social progress. And, of course, we are happy and can applaud and applaud the initiative of the Barcelona City Council Government, which..., with those we have kept periodic and basic findings almost every month so as to put in common the plans we make and the measures of each and every one, which we put on the march this plan of cultural rights for the barcelons and barcelons. We also share the principles that guide and move this plan: interculturality, the feminist perspective, decentralisation, the cohesive role of català, transparency. And I am convinced that the Member will also share with me that it is not easy to be pioneers in the regulation of cultural rights. In fact, there are very few places that are regulated. Therefore, this law that we intend to do is pioneering and surely very ambitious. What we practically start from scratch to define, protect, promote and guarantee access to these fundamental rights. That we must achieve the minimum necessary to finally establish a new social, cultural contract, and that we must always take account of equity and protect the most disadvantaged groups, putting into practice actions that allow us to correct the forms of discrimination and structural inequality. Therefore, obviously, I congratulate you on the inn on the way out of the plan. We are following it carefully, we see that they have developed two of the axes and still lack others to develop. So we'll follow him and talk about it. But we also have to bear in mind that we are at this point in time..., he has written the preliminary memoir, the preliminary memoir of a law that has all its work because we have to make it available to the citizenry to make this consultation, to approve this preliminary draft of the law because it begins to make its appeal. So, we know who the object is, we know what we want to regulate, but it's obvious that we're working on it so that everyone who thinks it's necessary and tells us what their position is. Meanwhile, we're doing things, aren't we? We are making program contracts with great equipment or with help lines, prioritizing those entities or associations that carry out programs of artistic or cultural mediation or any other activity with the objective of giving visibility and social prestige to good practices; that promote excellence in the exercise of culture as a tool for social transformation and inclusion. In many of the calls that we have at these times at ICEC, at OSIC, we already prioritize these projects that incorporate these elements. And in this magnifying glass that he explained to me that they have laid, I will thank him that at some point I tell me where they have laid to know her well, to see where we are not doing well, possibly. So we talk about it, and we know it, because we're not aware that there's any kind of barrier at the entrance of this type. Actually, with regard to creation, we are already making a lot of lines at this time, which are scholarships to research and innovation in the fields of visual arts, architecture, design, scenic arts, music and thought. This year 2021, for example, to visual arts we have donated fifty-two fellowships for 312,000 euros; to theatrical, dance and circus performing arts, seventy-six fellowships of 456,000 euros; in music dinosaur fellowships, of 114,000 euros; thought, twenty-five, of 150,000 euros. Therefore, a total of 172 scholarships per 1_million and call. This year we're increasing it, because we think it's one of the most important forms we have for this access and for giving this space to all this fan of creators that start. Therefore, we are increasing to EUR 1.2 million all this apart from scholarships that we consider to be very and very important. There are other projects we're making. We continue to participate in the Poctefa project, which is a cooperation project for such..., with inclusiveness and accessibility to the cultural equipment of the cross-border territory. About Culture, a very important entity that makes us open these spaces with a determined percentage for more vulnerable people. And so we're still betting on this entity and the bet and the reversal we're making on it is much more important. And just say we put culture at the center of society, which is very important. It will not only improve welfare, but also primarily the democratic quality of our country. This next diverging increases the enhancement limitations; cultural equipment can be refilled to the cent_per_cent. With all the caution you assume to keep the virus between us, please, MPs and MPs, we're utilising culture. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.24.0	Then there was a petition for alteration, a new alteration of the agenda points, in the sense of being able to advance the inquiry to the Vice-President of the Government, to do it now in place of being predicted, precisely in order to be able to cover the President of the Generality. Is there any obstacle on the part of the group that would now be the subject of the inquiry? [[Pause.]] I understand you don't. Therefore, by consent, we can approve this alteration of the order of the day, which is actually to interchant two interpellations. [[Question to the Government on the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[300-00102/13]] Therefore, we would like to see the new item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the situation of the Mediterranean Corridor, which is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.25.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolgut, Vice President. MPs and MPs... thank the VOX group that gave us this dialogue to facilitate the vice president's agenda. Well, today we'll talk about the Mediterranean Corridor, a vital infrastructure for the future of Catalonia, and as far as our group is concerned, it's not about public debate. Let's make a little history. In 2003, the Spanish Prime Minister, José María Aznar, imposed on the European Union a single rail connection between the Iberian peninsula and Europe: the so-called Central Travessia of the Aragonese Pyrenees. Against all human logic and market Aznar marginalized Catalan, Valencian and Basque ports. The Spanish state ignored an essential fact: it is the great ports and the great metropolitan regions that move large volumes of goods by rail. Aznar, the year 2003, also challenged the law of gravity. The mountains of the Aragonese Pyrenees are very high; France opposed them. They can get the freight trains out of the sea, refused to make more than a thousand meters high a tunnel of more than forty kilometers. The year 2013 in the European Parliament we approved the Mediterranean Corridor. I was there, and it was one of the happiest days of the two years I've ever made you an MEP. The proposal for priority rail corridors of the European Union of Goods also eliminated the central corridor of Pirineu Aragonès. The president of Aragó, Fernanda Rudi, said that day: "Today Spain has lost a battle, but not the war. You can find this intervention on Google. In 2013, the approval of the Mediterranean Corridor meant a great Catalan victory in Europe. The European Union imposed on Spain a task on the totality of its centralist and radial railway design. Today, in Madrid, the record of that day still lives as a humiliation. Even in La Vanguardia, it was said that the centralist rail policy of the Spanish Government had intervened since Brussels. By the way, I'm making a parenthesis. I want to thank today, from this Parliament, the leader of the Catalan engineer Joan Amorós, and of his institution that he founded, Fermmed. He has led the European Union in discussions on railway corridors, producing reports to the European Commission, technicians, and organising major conferences to the European Parliament, "sponsored by the two major European railway companies: German Deutsche Bahn and French SNCF. Many thanks, and for many years, Joan Amorós. Today, however, Spain continues to build high-speed trains that continue to engulf the centralism of great Madrid, marginalizing the Mediterranean Corridor. According to the Airef, Independent Tax Liability Authority, the investment in high speed already adds 65,000_million euros, and in the last thirty years, to Rodales in Spain only 3,680_million euros, and to Catalonia only 619. 65,000_millions to AVE, 3,680 to Rodalies to all of Spain, only 619_millions to Catalonia. Result: Busty castle, the great Madrid growing and growing, and Spanish mortgageing its future. Empirical evidence and economic literature show that the trains that increase the competitiveness of countries, cities and regions, are the rolling trains and goods. In change, PP and PSOE have done all the opposite. And we're very afraid that an important part of the European Next Generation vagina... is still being invested in high speed. So good I'm wrong, but we're very afraid that I can keep going through this. Between 2011 and 2018, Rajoy's PP did not do anything to complete the European law of the Mediterranean Corridor. In fact, in Spain, since 2016, it is the country that leads the resurgence of the European Commission's incompliments, for which it does the community regulation. Pedro Sánchez, 2018, pressed for the European Union, is only building a third wire in Catalonia. That's, like, a third lane in a line of Rodalies that already exists. This is a low-cost short-term solution that will only force Catalonia to share passenger and merchandise traffic. This does not go to any other country in the world or to any other Spanish region. If you look at it, you will see that the route Algesires-Madrid-Saragossa is like Europe: two new segregated lines of European scale only for goods. So, therefore, the Mediterranean Corridor that the Spanish State does to Catalonia, no more does to the world, because it is not efficient. And in Joan Amorós's words and prognostics: "In a short time he will be saturated, he calculates that in three years, "and, to, band that this can generate a great wear of lives. In the lives of Rodalies in Baix Llobregat there pass 173 per day, 170 trains per day. The maximum that a line can support is 200-210 trains a day. Therefore, two new lives were not expected in Catalonia only for goods, as required by the European Union. And another question, which is about which we want to ask today. The works of the Mediterranean Corridor between Martorell and Castellbisbal, which would allow to carry the train to the Mediterranean Corridor to the door of the SEAT plant to Martorell, should already be finished. For which I have been able to see, now, the Spanish government says that it is going to 2023 this inauguration. Martorell's SEAT plant has calculated the range of rail transport costs. On the day that the European scale arrives at the door of the factory, SEAT will be able to save up to four hundred euros for each car in cost of transport. In this sense, the desire of the Spanish Government to bring a train to SEAT that would allow such a great gain of competitiveness is not at stake. By the year 2019, SEAT will export 400,000 cars. We are talking, therefore, of a slender who could be 50 or 100 million euros per year, to the band of the elimination of contamination that this would suppose. It may be recalled that the Mediterranean Corridor, like all infrastructure, has only felt if it makes life easier for people and businesses, and, in this case, if it takes trucks off the highways and reduces the cost of manufacturing a product. Well, benvolgut vice president, I'd like to ask if you have any answers to this question. Do you know what day the Mediterranean Corridor will arrive at the SEAT plant in Martorell? Another question. The Minister of Transport, Raquel Sánchez, does not want to meet with the Tarragonan platform Corredor Mediterraneani for the Interior. One of the biggest misproposals of the Spanish State's infrastructure policy in Catalonia is Tarragona. The high speed does not go to the center of the city, but it has the estancia at the afores, and, in change, the dangerous goods cross urban nuclei densely populated run from the sea. Here I see socialist MPs who are listening, if they can help us because when this platform came to the digital policy and territorial committee all groups agreed that it was important. So... And, besides, there is a very large territorial consensus in Tarragona because it is possible to change this element. So, if they can help us, please, because this is an important issue. I'm done. In a Spanish radial, Catalonia is and will always be peripheral, but in an open Europe, of railway corridors of goods, Catalonia can be a central part if Catalan ports can compete in equal conditions with the ports of northern Europe. Barcelona wants to compete with Rotterdam, not València or Algesires. In Madrid, however, do they seem to prefer a poor Spain before they expect prosperity to enter Catalan and Valencian ports? That's a question I ask myself very often. And now I'm done. This marginalization of the Mediterranean Corridor against all economic logic reminds me of that phrase by Camilo José Cela, written l'any 73 of the secle passat: "In the matter of separatisms, there were always many more separatists than separatists. And do you know what it is for me, in my opinion, the main driving force behind the creation of independence in Catalonia? The tops of the state would work. It's not the government's fault, it's the government's fault, but the governments pass by the high-level officials of the state are always there. I ja l'any 1916 the Count of Romanes said it very clearly: "Make you the laws that we will make the regulations. For me, therefore, the main driving force of independence today in Catalonia is the evidence "that we have Catalans who, for the most part, have a government in Madrid with a good intention of grasping the state of things, there are always some other working people who end up deciding on the margins of parliaments where they are more inverted than they are supposed to be, in this case Madrid and other Spanish regions, and where they are systematically inverted less than they are supposed to be, as is the case in Catalonia. Therefore, so much good the Mediterranean Corridor allows us to compete in equal conditions with the north of Europe and to do even more early Catalonia, with an industrial base, with added value, and that, in short, is what allows for a clean economy, powerful public policies, well-endowed social policies, generous public assumptions to achieve the equal opportunities that we all want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.26.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, the words of the Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories and Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.27.0	Well, very late, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President, also for being able to alter the agenda. Congressman Tremosa, the truth is, it's always a pleasure, huh? Therefore, listen to him argue with so much knowledge and lucidity about this corridor so important to our country. I can't agree more with you: Spanish politics, from many years ago in railway matters, is an authentic disproposal in all its senses, in the short distance, in the medium distance and in the long distance. And, therefore, the Government of Catalonia and from this Parliament we must work to reverse this absolutely erratic policy from all perspectives. Thank you also for choosing this topic to ask me, because, as I say, it is a topic for the economic strategy of our country. For the Generality, the completion of the works of this corridor has been and will always be a priority, since this settlement, which is already too long, involves a huge amount of money for our economy. But it seems that this concern is only about the Government of Catalonia, and it is not about the Government of the State, when here you have one of the economic motors of your state. And I'm not saying it, I'm saying it. Do you know how many million euros the government of the PSOE and Podemos year 2020 invested for the Mediterranean Corridor? Do you know that? Twelve million. Do you know how many million he assumed for 2021? Two-hundred-twenty-four-million. Do you know how many of these 224_millions were executed? A cinc_per_cent; of 224_million previewed, is 'nvan spending 12, the year 2021, in the Mediterranean Corridor, in high speed to Catalonia. We could think that... in fi, it was a bad year, right? And these things, then, as often as they happen. But if we look at the figures from the 2021 Spanish budget, we see that 226_million euros were assumed for the Andalusian corridor, and you know how much you're going to spend? Five hundred thirty-seven. Double, double presupposed. Catalunya, 12; Andalusia, 537. I, the truth, do not know then how they are surprised that every time there are more people in Catalonia who want the independence of this country. But, well, let's get back to the point. You have told us very well the unfortunate story of this railway corridor: for years, against all economic logic, the Spanish government has aspired to a central corridor, pharaoh and senseless, with the only objective that you did not pass through Catalonia. Up to this extreme the madness. Luckily, it had to be the European Union that imposed itself and felt economic, and above all because, ultimately, it is who pays it and, therefore, who told the State that with its money, with European money, this aberration, no. This isn't random or just incompetence. There is a manifest political will from years ago to lower the political and economic weight of Catalonia and to restore the whole of the Llevant, arriving at the absurd that today is still faster to go from Barcelona to Alacant by train, via Madrid, than by the Mediterranean Corridor. Can you imagine Merkel crossing the connections between Frankfurt and Munic? Imagine President Macron favoring that to go to Marseille, to Toulouse, he had to go to Paris? Well, that's exactly what happens between Barcelona and Valencia. After executing €65,000_million in high speed in these 30 years to no one – you have been fixed – it has occurred to you that it was necessary to connect the second and third city of the Spanish State. And what's even more aberrant, they didn't even draw it. Ladies and gentlemen, you can look for the adjective you want, but this is completely unacceptable. By fate the seny arrived from Europe, as justice will do. After no one is surprised that every day more Catalans and Catalans push the independence train. Since the Government of the Generality we have always demanded from the different governments of the State the acceleration of the works of the Mediterranean Corridor for what it means for the transport of goods to our country, for the enterprises and, ultimately, for the Catalan economy. Because the Mediterranean Corridor is one of the key axes on which a good part of Catalonia's economic and logistical strategy hinges. Yes; the Mediterranean Corridor is also a key bet to grow and promote competitive advantages for companies in our country. You told me about the SEAT, Mr. Congressman. It has been years since the SEAT asked this corridor to be competitive with other industrial seats in European automotive. And who knows if we'd still have the Nissan between us if this runner was already done. Twenty years late, a lost generation. We could donate a lot of economic imports to this corridor. Mr. Tremosa has donated a few and, therefore, I will relieve them, but the conclusion is clear: for the ports of Catalonia, for the ports of València it is a cabdal infrastructure, for exports, for trade. It is unacceptable that it is not yet done and that it is still in place for a third thread. The conclusion, therefore, is clear. Well-managed competitive infrastructures are key to maintaining and increasing the competitiveness of our country's economy. And not only does the government believe it, but so does the Catalan civil and economic society. And also European entities with Fermmed that denounce, among other things, that the line of Tarragona heading to Andalusia passing through Madrid always has four lives, that of the Mediterranean, no. This reality only obeys a political and non-economic criteria. This is also the main claim to the Ferrmed table, and Mr. Amoros to the front, who has done a lot of good work. And from the Catalan government we share it. We share Ferrmed's demands and thank them for their efforts to internationalize and claim this issue. In the face of this state of affairs, we will not stand still from the Government of the Generality. We have a logistic strategy for the internationalization of the Catalan economy, a model that is essential for the competitiveness of the transport and logistics sector in Catalonia. The Mediterranean Corridor will be paramount for this strategy, although we cannot be denouncing that the Corridor should be of high capacity, multimodal, digital and sustainable. We'll end up having a runner, yes, some day I hope, but late and badly, since from the beginning, with the proposal of the third wire, what you'll see is already threatened from the start its ability. The solution to increase the third wire instead of building a European wide corridor dedicated to goods, the real corridor, was a faster and more economical solution in a few moments of crisis but so long ago it will not provide the necessary capacity for the system. The transport of goods through the corridor is also a clear tool to combat climate change through the decarbonization of mobility. We need to get trucks out of the lanes, and that's why we need to encourage these corridors at the infrastructure level and at the bonus level. But we also see that Spain seems to be concerned about this issue either. As twelve thousand trucks pass daily to hear at Jonquera, without paying toll for sure, the freight trains pay a toll to create the border. This is completely illogical in a fight_mark against climate change. Therefore, Espanya returns late and ill. How long do we have to continue to paint this lack of politics that drives the progress of Catalonia? I'm telling you, until we can make decisions from Catalonia, this is gonna be very difficult. Therefore, it is no longer urgent to finish the corridor, but it is urgent for the State to start drafting the draft European corridor dedicated to goods, and that this one does agree with the demand from north to south to give more capacity to the trams that were to be completed first from the border to the south and, at the same time, that plans already the implementation of the third wire for Portbou to temporarily gain capacity and efficiency for the goods. This has to be done now. We must act with a view to the European corridor, which is what the Catalan economy needs. Once more we have to denounce the hardships of the State, a state that has executed a radial model of passengers for the benefit of Madrid and has abandoned the goods that are the economy. They are, in this sense, making families, workers, students, tourists, businesses arrive late to work. They don't deserve this leave of office. In short, it is fixed in the paradox: 65,000_million euros in thirty years in high speed throughout the State. Today, the second and third cities of the State, Barcelona and València, representing the first economy of the peninsula, are still neither studied nor studied their connection with high speed. Maybe another time justice and seny will come from Europe. Meanwhile, while we are working for independence, we will continue to defend the Mediterranean Corridor and the European as one of the best economic and environmental policies for Catalonia. Thank you very much and very much late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.28.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on foreign policy]] [[300-00096/13]] And now, let us move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government on foreign policy presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.29.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ma'am. This is not the first time we have had the opportunity to talk about the foreign policy of the Generality of Catalonia and the least questionable use you have given the institutions of this region. Look, on the street there is a growing disaffection in this matter, in its external action. And it is that the Catalans have been witnesses and forced payers of a spectacle the less grotesque of international promotion of the separatist coup d'état and of an illegal use of the competences that constitutionally have been assigned to the autonomous communities. It should be recalled that competence in international relations rests solely and exclusively with the State – articles 97 and 149 of the Spanish Constitution. And it makes it very clear: "International relations belong exclusively to the State. It is the government of the nation that directs the foreign policy of the state. However, the autonomous communities, and Catalonia among them, can exercise certain functions with regard to external projection, and in this way it is expressed in the same constitutional text: "The functions of the autonomous communities must be understood to be limited to those which do not imply the exercise of a right to conclude treaties, do not affect the foreign policy of the State and do not create responsibilities vis-à-vis foreign states or international and supranational organizations. Do not affect the foreign policy of the State – do not affect the foreign policy of the State. But you have not; you have done absolutely the opposite: you have illegally used the powers of foreign action not only by influencing the foreign policy of the State, but by directly attacking the State. This has been precisely the foreign policy of the Generalitat, that of creating division, confrontation and illegally usurping competences that they do not have to advance in their rupturist project. For many years, they have devoted themselves to wasting and embezzle the money of Catalans in creating illegal state structures, such as the Diplomat and embassies abroad, which are embassies through which public money is embezzled, exercising not only an absolute disloyalty to the whole of the Kingdom of Spain, but are used as a political weapon to subvert order and advance in that separatist coup d'état. Your embassies, Madam Councillor, are a well without a waste of public revenue, where in recent years more than 416_million_of_euro have been wasted to cover an endless number of illegal activities of international propaganda of the rupturist process and to pay the salaries of their high offices; high offices also, by the way, are absolutely all friends of this government. I mean, you finger them to defend the interests of the thugs, and you've put ambassadors to all kinds of characters. Members of Junts, members of Esquerra, journalists of the newspaper Ara ; even the sister of the football coach..., of Pep Guardiola. Anyway, he's been through all kinds of viviadors, spabilados with yellow lace, charging a pasture of more than 87,000 eurazos a year. [[Some applause.]] Madam, you, as a good separatist who is, you love, you love to wear the democrat medallion. It's something you like very much. But I'm gonna tell you something. Democracy is not to do what you want when you want; democracy is to act in accordance with the law and respect institutions. And I'm going to tell you the same way I told the runaway president, Carles Puigdemont, in the European Parliament. Without law, there is no democracy, Madam Counsellor and members of this Government; without law, there is no democracy. Put it in his head. Because you are used to doing absolutely the opposite in external action and other matters. You, Madam Councillor, force the Catalans on foot to pay you the plane tickets so that you will go on a trip around the world to encourage hatred of Spain, to say that the evil Spaniards chase them, to put them in jail and all kinds of crap that, frankly, Mrs Alsina, this no longer buys anyone – no one buys it. In fact, you went to Mexico last month, where you opened an embassy and dedicated once again to insulting Spain. You went to Mexico to say that the Spaniards were colonial Indian killers and I don't know what the fuck else. Are the Catalans really paying you for this, Madam Counselor? So you can go for a walk around the world and say this kind of crap? Are these the functions you have, Madam Counsellor? And it is also that the international image of this government..., of course, with attitudes like this, so normal, right? He's lost all credibility. The image of this government abroad is increasingly ridiculous. You go on a trip, sit down and have coffee with anyone who makes a little bit of a case and that's what they call a bilateral summit. A little like Mr. Sanchez and Mr. Biden's, which lasted about... what? Five seconds? Seven seconds? This is the international policy that you are carrying out. Or another case. President Borràs this Christmas, isn't she? , who wanted us to sell that the White House had given him a medal of not knowing how many and then we found out that no, that most likely this medal that made him delivery the White House bought it herself by Amazon for twenty" turkeys, as we all could see. Finally, Madam Councillor, this is what happens when the external action of the Generalitat is based on systematically insulting Spain. You have lost all credibility here, in Lloret de Mar, in Mexico and anywhere in the world where you go. Both walking around the world preaching the separatism and the goodness of the coup d'état has not improved the lives of Catalans, but quite the contrary, it has only brought legal insecurity and instability. And you, who know about the economy, will know that, to attract international investors, to attract companies, to create jobs for Catalans, legal instability is quite the opposite of what is needed. Nearly seven thousand companies have fled Catalonia in recent years, seven thousand companies; four hundred thousand Catalans are currently out of work, twenty-six per cent; one of four Catalans is at risk of poverty, one of four Catalans; 3,700 Catalans have lost their home because of the illegal occupation that you are protecting from institutions. This is Catalonia which leaves us ten years of separatism; this is precisely the mark of separatism in this region. Ms Alsina, Catalonia does not need an external action council that spends 90_million_of_euro every year; Catalonia does not need a councilwoman who walks around the world insulting her nation, systematically disregarding the hand that gives her food. Look, "Counsellor, unfortunately Catalonia is not the southern Denmark that you like to sell. If a Danish comes to our land, it is most likely that there are burning containers, those of the CUP attacking tourism, queues of hunger and a mena stealing his wallet when he leaves the metro. Because this is the Catalonia of separatism: insecurity, ruin and misery. That is why, Madam Councillor, we are asking you to leave today. Catalans do not deserve you to spend 90_million_de_euro every year in an illegal foreign action that directly attacks the interests of all Spaniards. Catalans don't deserve you to waste your money on embassies and millions of dollars for your high offices. Catalans deserve a government that lives in the real world and not in an imaginary republic. Catalans deserve a government loyal to Spain that uses institutions to serve and not to serve itself. And that is why, « Counsellor Alsina, we demand the immediate closure of the Foreign Action Council, the closure of the Diplomat and of all the embassies that you have opened abroad. [[Some applause.]] Because 90_million_de_euros can't be squandered every year in international separatist propaganda while thousands of Catalans don't even have to feed their children at the end of the month. As you squander on your ideological delusions, we will put forward the social protection of Catalans. And that goes unquestionably by closing his council and all the embassies. It is enough to use public money to violate the law and violate the interests of Catalans. No more embezzlement. And make it clear that sooner or later we will suspend your counseling and end the separatist mafia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.30.0	Next is the External Action Advisor, Ms. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.31.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, the truth is you're very predictable, huh? Even though I have to tell you that when I saw the title of your inquiry, I was surprised, didn't I? , an inquiry which is generically entitled 'on foreign policy'. Because, look, we all want our competitions. But today, foreign policy... Catalonia is not yet a state, it's still coming, isn't it? But the competence of foreign policy is a competence that the Spanish State has today, and in this sense, you will forgive me for giving me the academic vein and in this sense tell him that when I read it I thought it might be a conceptual error, like other errors that you had already made in previous conversations that we had in the wake of the foreign commission, or that you might have been precisely anxious, right? To know what would be the foreign policy of an independent Catalonia, of a Catalonia state. And in this sense, therefore, I do not blame him, because precisely this councillor, the foreign councillor, thinks and works for the day that we can also do this foreign policy. You talked about the state of autonomy. In fact, it has started in a very predictable way in which has been his speech from the inician, demanding the elimination of the department, my cessation consequent as the councillor. And, in fact, you mentioned the Constitution, but you must be unaware that the competence of outsiders is a recognized competence in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Up to and including the State detailed by the Constitutional Court, this competence remains in force. And finally, after the comments the Constitutional made on the external action plan, therefore, this competition also remains in force. In fact, Spain must be the only country where there are many constitutionalists who have not read the Constitution well or have not read the Statute of Autonomy well. I wanted to explain to him... – because I understand that it would be a waste of time to answer some of the provocations, some of the threats and some of the disrespects he shared, right? , provoking a spectacle, as always, unworthy in the Parliament of Catalonia –, which I specifically spoke to you in the way you have entitled this inquiry, on foreign policy..., which I spoke to you about this foreign policy, about which is the vision we have from the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Catalonia about one of the main aspects of foreign policy that are passing to the world. Because we observe with great interest, we analyze and have things to say about this foreign policy. Therefore, I wanted to share it, so, what is the Government's foreign policy visit, as you have called it in your inquiry, in this case on Ukraine. In this sense, you know that the 22nd generation of the year 90 Ukraine achieved its independence, an independence that many people certainly thought would never be produced. And in this sense, as you also know, thirty-two years later, so it is precisely again threatened, this independence, by a government that has not yet understood that we are not in a cold war, is it not? And, in this sense, the visit of the government and my department is based on three policy premises that I would like to share with all of you. First, a first premise is that Russia must immediately return to its bases the more than one hundred and thousand soldiers mobilized to the Ukrainian border. His presence is an unacceptable threat to Ukraine and a way of making that the year 2014 already led to the illegal annexation of Crimea to Russia. Force others to be what they don't want to be is always and will always be imperialism. A second premise is that democratic countries must give their unequivocal support to Ukraine. Ukraine is a sovereign country, a country that has the right to decide its future free of interference, and this from Catalonia we defended for Ukraine and we defended for everyone. We also believe that the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States must implement all the necessary measures to deter Russia, and that the European Union, in particular, must play a key role. Because the same way that things in Ukraine have to decide, in the first place, things in Europe have to decide, in the first place, things in Ukraine, things in Europe have to decide, in the first place, things in Europe. The third premise of this government and of my department is precisely to express our commitment to the diplomatic path and to all those collective defence tools that can be used to prevent war. In fact, Minsk agreements can serve as a basis for this future negotiation. And it also seems to us that it is not right to equate the two banners and corresponsabilize them. You can't blame the victim, Ukraine, for the expansionist ambitions of your country. As I said, we want all of them, as well as foreign policy. And the department works for the day we can fully exercise it. Catalan external action is based on the principles of solidarity and responsibility. And from our dual strategy, European and Mediterranean, it will always be... Catalonia will always be a reliable partner, serious and committed to multilateralism. Therefore, we have honoured the title of the inquiry that was being raised and we have started talking about a little foreign policy. You're very interested in the activity of the Exterior Consulting, we've been able to prove it by the number of questions, huh? They sent us to the council in the last few months. And here, in fact, as the counselor, but also as the politician and expert in open government, I wanted to question him some of the things that interested him most, based on the questions he sent us to our department. Why, look, sometimes they've asked us some questions about funds, huh? Your questions... I wanted to put it in full, first of all, that it seemed to us that the difference between what is a request for information and what is a written question, huh? At this level... So it seems to us that here I can help, now, then, to explain the difference, huh? , because in the future, when we send them we can answer them properly. The second thing is that he has asked us for information, not once or twice, but on repeated occasions, he has asked us for information from delegations in countries where we do not have a delegation. [[Rialles.]] Neither is an embassy. The day will come when we have our embassies, huh? For now, we have delegations. [[Greetings.]] And he asked us repeated questions about... I repeat, delegations in countries where we don't have them. And he was also very interested in knowing how meetings with various non-existent North American entities have gone. [[Rialles.]] I mean, they didn't exist, I couldn't get together. So, that would be a second theme you wanted to... take advantage of, wouldn't it? , that we are here, in this conversation so pleasant, to share it with you. [[Rialles.]] And a third issue, I also wanted to ask – and here I am asking the deputies not to smile – is that on the last question he asked me, I am asking about police regions. I mean, did you do it or did you do an algorithm, that question? Police regions, the Department of Foreign Affairs? Well, see, Mr. Tarradas, if you were your teacher, I'd tell her we'd see each other in September. [[Rialles.]] But as the Foreign Counselor says, you don't waste any more time on me. [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] contesting these questions. I can talk to him, but I think I can... I have more time, don't I? Then, to detail it more... because I also saw him very concerned about the cost of external action. This is a recurring question that you have asked in committee several times, to the initial committee in which we presented the action mark, the lines of action of the council, and also to the committee where I presented the assumption. A premise that is certainly an incremental one, which strengthens our right and our duty to do external action. You... – politely translate what you say not so politely – you worry that the cost of external action is superfluous. That's what you're worried about. And in this sense, I am calm, because the data say that each of the euros we have invested, for example, in foreign investment attraction, has had a return of 166. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.32.0	Thank you, Counselor. In turn, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.33.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Counselor. Look, do you know what your problem is, counselor? You think you're Churchill. You believe the ambassador of..., the republic has not arrived nor will it arrive, Madam Counselor. So stop coming here to give us great explanations, whether Ukraine, if I don't know how much..., you have no influence in any of those areas, ma'am. That's why when you walk around the European Union and try to talk to ambassadors, try to talk to people, nobody opens the door. I mean, get in the head that you're the counselor of an autonomous community. You're not Churchill, ma'am. Leave once a stroll around the world and step a little more on the street, which you have to the abandoned Catalans. It gives me the feeling that you do not have very clear what the priorities of Catalans are, do you not? , because in this Parliament, we have really talked about absolutely rocky issues in relation to external action, that if Kurdistan, if I don't know how many..., you tread a little more street. Listen to the Catalans, meet their real needs. You said we were very predictable. Well, I'm glad you think we're predictable, that means we're doing our job right and that you're shutting down our message. Make sure you're predictable too, that's good for me, isn't it? 'cause the notes I had in front of me, 'cause I'm gonna be great at answering him right now. And I will repeat to you, what I told you in the previous speech: every time you go out into the world to say that you will explain the national reality of Catalonia, and the ambitions, the separatist aspirations of the Catalan government, you are breaking the law. I repeat, articles 97 and 149 of the Spanish Constitution, you record it on fire, because otherwise you will end up as your predecessors in this office. So, do once and for all the favor of using public money to really meet the real needs of Catalans and let yourself be left out of walks around the world to talk about their separatist subsidiaries and their phobia to Spain. Do the favor of dedicating yourself to what your job really is. Seek investors, present Catalonia as a top tourist destination in the international community. But of course, if you do the opposite, because what happens is that you lose all credibility and Catalonia does nothing but lose opportunities. So much process, all day the process, the process up, process down..., Madam Councillor, we should start talking, rather than process back, which is the only thing that has brought your ideological policies back. [[Some applause.]] And that's not what I'm making up, and you know it perfectly well. Before, Catalonia led growth within Spain, until 2017. Jesus Christ, what happened that year 2017, for which Catalonia began to grow below the state average? Businesses just go. The Catalan market is becoming less attractive every day. And on top of that, you are dedicated to raising taxes to the companies and the remaining workers. Who's going to want to come to Catalonia? You have ruined Catalonia, we are no longer that community that shone with the Olympic Games, unfortunately. And this is the fault of separatism. According to the data of the National Institute of Statistics, Catalonia is the community where tourism falls the most. And by the way. And that, now, is going to say: "the pandemic; yes, of course, the pandemic, but the pandemic has affected us all, and Catalonia is the one that falls the most, and by the way. So I'm not worth the excuse. Foreign investment falls in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. Compared to Madrid, in the first quarter of 2021, the Community of Madrid achieved 60,2_per_cent of total foreign investment. Catalonia, 19.1. In the second quarter, Madrid managed to climb to sixty_and_six_per_cent, while Catalonia dropped to 11,4_per_cent. Does that not concern you, Madam Counselor? Is this not your concern? No, because, of course, it's better to dedicate themselves to incriminating the consuls with that if independence, that if the aspirations of Catalonia... Den is told, is that the truth is that it is very ridiculous, I don't know which state you intend to build, when you are unable to manage an autonomous community. They don't invent skills they don't have, when they're incapable of managing what they already have. It is enough to waste public money, Madam Counselor. Less waste money in international cooperation, with absurd 100_000_euro items to the Raqaypampas and I don't know how many, and more help to the self-employed, who are going through quite badly; less strolling through Washington and more walking down the street in Can Gibert, or in Figueres – listen to the neighbors, Mrs. "consellera" ; less international politics, and more social protection, Mrs. consellera. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.34.0	And, also in the turn of the line, she has the word followed by Mrs. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.35.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, I wanted to dedicate this second part to explain a little bit more to you, because it's a little quieter, isn't it? Because the money we use in outer action is a big reversal, isn't it? I'd say it's not a expense, but it's a reversal. But before I list it, the one that seems to me to be some emblematic projects, I would also like to begin by congratulating him, because before I criticized him for certain themes, but I have seen that at least it differentiates what the Department of Foreign Affairs of Diplomat is; one thing, for example, that Mrs. Soraya never did, huh? When he said that Diplocat was in liquidation. Therefore, to congratulate him because in the principle of his intervention, at least this part has made it clear. And we'll get delegations to raise them and deploy them to re-launch them. Therefore, it is important that you differentiate the two things so that you can ask us in your own months, so, accurately, about this. And we'll challenge them all, huh? As we've done so far. Many of them, of course, are already public and can be consulted directly. But if you want us to send it by writing, then we can still send it. I'm glad you could keep up, right? reading the previous notes that I had prepared, that I gave him little to read these previous notes, because it's one thing, then, that he's already done in committee, too, huh? Use the previous notes that had prepared it and read them independently of what I explained to you. Therefore, in this sense, I am glad that I could also do so in this intervention. And in this sense, you talk about the real problems of Catalans. And this is a subject that can never, in any case, superficially address the issue of the real problems of Catalans. In fact, Catalan external action is in everyone's service and helps solve the real problems of Catalans, people, businesses, entities, and in all dimensions, right? Because this department has a cross-section, which is at the service of the government, but it is also at the service of the local world, and it is at the service of entities, of civil society, that want to do external action. I'd say before, that for every euro that is reversed from the government, right? , precisely in foreign investment attraction, we have a return of 166. So, you were talking about the economy and I'm starting it by giving you an economic data, but I can also tell you, for example, that external action serves us to sign agreements, like, for example, and memoranda, like what we did with UNESCO, we didn't sign mass, in Paris, right? , which allows us to carry out cultural, academic and scientific cooperation activities with different entities. Therefore, we also work in the multilateral sphere. And with the agencies. In order to help create a more just world, right? Because we don't just want to solve Catalan problems, we want to solve everyone's problems. And, therefore, we have a premise that four of your euros, forty per cent, therefore, are dedicated precisely to the field of cooperation. We have our delegations, which are our political branches, which have all kinds of bilateral and multilateral contacts with the institutions they have in their country. And also, since you mentioned an act to Mexico, right? Therefore, Catalans abroad are also very important to us. And that's why we've created a general direction where we're precisely dedicated to giving them more vision, giving them more service and growing this Catalan network of global cooperation. The Catalans on the outside..., I would explain to him a little more the Mexican act, in fact, I recommend that you see the report we've been doing, because it's very exciting– I would say it's the most exciting act I've done since I became a government advisor, and it'll be one of those that I take as a gift and I'll always remember–, that it was a tribute to all the Catalans who were exiled during the Civil War and during the post-war period in Mexico, and they were given a recognition of their government. And, in fact, they explained what they had represented for them to be Catalans and Mexicans, right? And I remember with special "kindness that the bearer said: "Look," he says, "sometimes the people we have divided hearts think, don't they? between Catalonia and Mexico. He said: "We have two hearts, don't we? Because we grew up in two countries. And, in fact, it was a precious act, which I recommend you follow, because external action is also about taking care of people. Not all the outside action goes out; I don't have to take a plane ticket, from these that you and all the Catalans pay me, to do outside action all the time, huh? , because sometimes we do it in Barcelona. And, for example, I also wanted to explain the project of the consular hub, because we have many comforts, some generals and some honorifics, and we work with our consulates to make life easier for them in Barcelona and make them connections. And so do we with the local world. Look, we'll continue to do outside because it's our right, it's our right, and in this sense, with the premise of this year we'll do more and still better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.36.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the difficulties encountered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert in doing its job abroad]] [[300-00103/13]] Let's move on to the eighth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the difficulties with which the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert finds itself to do its work abroad, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the French deputy of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.37.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members... We've done it many times since the Faristol, and today we want to do a special previa, which is a special greeting to the workers of this Parliament. Often things have to be changed, they have to be improved, and it will be done, because this is the political compromise, but during all this time, during these last few days, you have endured statements and falsehoods that were this, that they were false, and therefore, to bring you, from the Group of Joints for Catalonia, that we follow at your side, that we take a magnificent job and that thanks for making this legislative chamber work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] And, Counselor, the inquiry is very clear– maybe a little bit more now than it's been a while, huh? , but – on which difficulties he finds his Department of External Action and Government Obert to do his international work. It is a question that, obviously, is a rhetorical question, the difficulties we already imagine, all the more, and the origin, unfortunately, in a 99.9_per_cent of the cases, are always the institutions and devices of the Spanish State. But let's go for a walk. To tell you, first, that together for Catalonia we have clear who is the strategy to complete the independence of this country, and here you have a responsibility. We like to draw it with a triangulation: in the first place, to build Catalonia, not to stop building Catalonia, and to make it pass through a filter, which for us is a very clear and very easy filter, and which all is: all those decisions that we take from the local area to the national, until the international one they have to send us from Spain and they have to accompany us to the independence of Catalonia. A _second vertex of this triangle would destabilize Spain. We do not understand that giving a state that has no democratic patina, that we cannot explain that it is in a negotiation process because there is no such negotiation process, so we insist on the idea of destabilizing Spain. But it is, moreover, a state which, in the 21st century, violates civil and political rights, and therefore we have to explain that this is a problem for Europe. And above all, it is a state that impoverishes and precariouss the future of Catalonia, the future of our nets, of our children and of our opinions, with which all this has to be explained, and the only way to explain it is that this second vertex of destabilizing the Spanish State is done only from the roots and knowledge. And, finally, the third vertex would be this internationalization to Europe and the rest of the world, because it is to Europe, it is to the outside where since 2017 we win all political battles, all judicial battles, and it is obvious that, in the democratic camp, Catalonia and Spain lose. This is such an obvious fact that even the Spanish State, obsessed with 2017, knows how to prosecute, criminalize, prosecute and spy on foreign action. We have seen, for example, the Court of Auditors which, out of hand, did not have enough to prosecute and ruin the officials of the Exteriors, who had done and did a magnificent job, but also in their descendants, a behavior propitious to dictatorships. An external action that – I'd say it's a ston, counsel, if I may – from a constitutional perspective is very legal, from a perspective of Spanish legislation – from a perspective of Spanish legislation – is perfectly legal everything it does. But we already know that the law of Spain has a double rod, and for the independenceists there is nothing but saving you and, therefore, we find ourselves where we find ourselves. So, in the first place, he'll advise, thank you for keeping the course, because it's not just legal, that we care relatively... I have also heard before, for example, that there is no democracy without you. I want to remember, for example, – as Mrs Madaula has said – that all dictatorships have laws, that the Franco regime has many laws, and, therefore, the laws are nothing more than democracy. On the contrary, we live, we are inserted in a state that has shown that forcing the law is destroying democracy. And precisely this is one of the reasons we are exercising our right to self-determination. He said it's not just legal, but it's his political mandate, it's his job, and it's doing well, from cooperation to development to the new map of delegations. He does what he politically committed to do, he does it with transparency – he explained it to the committee, he explains it here to Parliament. But there is a derivative, that helps, that helps us all, and it is that the fact that Catalonia has experienced the last century between dictatorships and dictatorships has made us have an immense advantage like Catalans. And it's that, if we say the Department of Foreign Affairs does not fail, but above all we have an organized civil society that has always done a magnificent job, or substitution or complementarity. He has spoken – and you have not spoken before a moment ago – of the Diplomacy, which he knows everyone, but perhaps many of whom I am here do not know FOCIR, which is the Federation of Catalan Organizations Internationally Recognized. It is a federation that simply explains to us the world from the knowledge, the know-how of doing in very diverse fields – from mountain, music, corals, the right – and that they are all Catalan organizations that define themselves normally and naturally as Catalans in the world and explain to us the world. But not only the entities of FOCIR: we have Catalan couples – who have also not spoken a moment ago – but also the Catalan National Assembly, which has done a magnificent job during these last few years explaining to the world; that has done an interesting job in international organizations; that the own Platform for Language, which we have not spoken often in this Parliament and which does a very good job in our country, but which has also understood, for example, that the work outside was indispensable, that some European directives therefore do not wrong us and that therefore also there should defend our interests. And, therefore, all this outside action – the public, the private, the public – has a common denominator, and it's that everything we do, everything we do from the government, everything we do from the Parliament, everything we do from the independence movement works for knowledge, recognition and promotion of human rights. Therefore, we have achieved a question that is highly interesting to the world, and that our claims, Catalan claims, are above all global claims. And it's this brand that we always try to explain, that they're these human rights to everyone and everybody else. And that, by comparison, is also deeply painful for the Spanish State. On one side, we have a Catalonia that is a world reference in the thought and study of the peaceful resolution of conflicts and, on the other, we have a Spain with its 22,000_million euros of military spending. Are you allied with the Mediterranean that you have? So Morocco and Turkey. I have often heard of Turkey from this Faristol; today – today itself – we have learned that the Group of Joints in the European Parliament has made it possible to investigate the sale of arms from Spain to Turkey, and the European Parliament reminds the Spanish State that the threats made by Turkey against Xipre have been condemned from within the European sphere. Therefore, from this space we also understand that it can be very painful for the Spanish State to compare itself to what is our action, what is our international cosmosvisión. To Europe, for example, the European penal reference, which would be the German justice, therefore, gives us the reason in the case of President Puigdemont. And, when Spain seeks allies in the case of President Puigdemont, then raise your hand, who? So Romania, if I'm not mistaken, Poland. All right, all right, all right. I Ukraine – you spoke of Ukraine before. In a civilized world that has aspired for democracy, therefore the Spanish government of socialists and commons sends ships of war thinking perhaps that Europe has little memory, does not remember, as the esteemed Aleix Sarri reminded us, that at the port of Ceuta four days ago they let it be provided with the Russian ships that sailed towards annexed Ukraine. Perhaps that's why, President Biden, when he had to make a little list of who was to go or who wasn't to talk about what was going on in the conflict we were dealing with at the time, he thought it probably wasn't the best idea to contact the Spanish government. But keeping this way uncomplicated outside, this way for human rights, for civil and political rights – we have already commented – has a high cost, economic policy and above all humanity. And now we've gone a little further. We know that persecution has a high cost of keeping this look on the outside, and after that we have to keep our eyes on the outside, and we know that, in addition to this rule of law that I have named and the Department of Foreign Affairs, we now have a new actor, who is the Council for the Republic. It is an exemplary body in internal and external democracy that recognizes and promotes the right to self-determination and human rights in its individual and collective dimension, which is king for the principles of poverty and non-violence, which works for the empowerment of citizens, for sustainability and social justice. And it's this new piece that has to be extremely useful for outside action, counselor. This question is why I share with this Parliament the difficulties and the passages that external action suffers, but it is also to tell you from Parliament that you are not alone, to tell you "we make a mockery of the conjunction of the Catalan society, that we have tools, that we have means, that we have organization and that we have experience to keep the Catalan presence out quantitatively and qualitatively. And we also have – and you, as the good connoisseur of the Anglo-Saxon world will know – the fact of defending a just cause, which at the angle, the North-Americans like to speak of a just cause, an unbeatable cause. Because, while we are inextricably fighting for the independence of the struggle for democracy, freedom and human rights, so be on the side of history. We are a just cause, yes, and we must also prove that we are unbeatable. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.38.0	It has the word, then, the Counsellor of External Action, the lady Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.39.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, you're welcome, aren't you? , with the sum of these questions today it is also clear from where the boycotts come many times, or 99,9_per_cent of the times to Catalan external action. In fact, what is a constant struggle on the part of all the government's councils – it's a cross-cutting issue – is all the extra work that we assume to exercise some of our skills. In the case of Exteriors, however, as you said – and as we live in the day to day all the people who have worked, we work and, unfortunately, those who will continue working, I believe, in the proper months, right? , in the own time in External Action – it is this extra boycott, an extra boycott that has a centralist component, that has an anti-Catalian component, and that causes, for example, governments of the PP and the PSOE, when they are ruling in Spain, to pose problems to our government delegations abroad in some policies and in some actions that are also doing more or less in some areas, from, precisely, external offices that therefore have other autonomous communities. And here's one question if the last will, right? , of these threats and of these coercions, many times it is to invisible Catalonia. In this sense, the department has a singularity, which I believe is also related to these boycotts that have been patenting over the years, and is precisely the high strategic value that Catalan external action has. An external action that is aimed at defending the interests of all Catalans, that is aimed at being a responsible, reliable and committed ally to doing an external action that is of quality, that positions us, that legitimizes us, and all that despite the obstacles. Obstacles we know well, they're pretty well known – we've been through them, they've taken over the news from a lot of communication media these past few years. I believe that it is important to start with the obstacles of the year 2014, with the celebration of the 9-N, where it began to increase substantially all the pressures made by the Spanish embassies in the world because the delegations and the actions that Catalonia promoted abroad, so it is not possible to realize in a free way; a type of actions that have been pursued by the Court of Auditors. It's one of the first carpets that I found particularly on the table when I got to the department and it's not a court and, more importantly, it costs to explain internationally, of course, because that's what we explain internationally as well. But it's hard for people to hear from the Court of Auditors and what they're assuming and the violations of rights that they're assuming the charges they've made. And in this sense, let's see, shall we? In later events, then, how reactive this seems to be and continues to be, doesn't it? , this set to stop Catalan external action for the strategic value it has. In fact, I wouldn't have enough hours to list them here the different pressures that, from the moment the Department of External Action is created, we have suffered. I just wanted to give you some examples, didn't I? They're symptomatic. Some of them, the most well-known, the closure of the delegations abroad themselves with 155, with which this also assumed for the workers of these delegations and their families of political projects, but also vital and personal. The liquidation of Diplomat. I'll tell them, won't I? , as delegations will grow this year 2022 and we will strengthen what we have and will grow them– in fact, from now on I will not explain to them in committee what is the plan of growth and consolidation of these delegations–, therefore, in this same way, we will soon relaunch the Diplomacy with a renewed brand, with new status and new features. What else? So, my dear, a very symbolic example of how Spanish pressures can really harm all of Catalonia. It is, for example, the year 2017 that passed when the PP government succeeded in cancelling a business mission between Catalonia and Flanders to Morocco. This mission damaged thirty companies that aspired to strengthen their commercial relations. And, in fact, Flanders held it, neither more nor less, as the "destructive diplomacy of the Spanish State. Some Members of this chamber remember each other well. This is an example. An example, too, of how this external action boycott harms everyone, because external action is built for everyone and their boycott harms everyone. I could follow with examples, some more recent. In my last trip to Mexico, right? They came out and made public some of the boycotts that we had in the framework of the activities that we wanted to do in the Congress, but that we finally managed to do, presenting precisely what are the objectives of this Department and of the Catalan external action to the Chamber of Deputies of Mexico and to the committee working on external action issues. Mirin, Catalonia, for us, external action is irrefutable. As the honourable Member said: "Foreign action does not mean cooperation of civil society, which at times has supplanted and at times supplemented what is ugly from the government. And, in this sense, outside action without the hands of civil society does not get along. And, therefore, to the extent that Catalan civil society is deeply European, this Government is also European, and the great focus of our external action has been, continues to be and will continue to be, precisely, the European Union. These past few weeks we have wanted to put the conference on the future of Europe to rest at the different times in Catalonia and we have organised a conference in each of these times. The next week we will be in Girona and the last act will be in Barcelona, precisely. And in these conferences we explained that we believe that the future is Europe, that our future, that of Catalonia, passes through Europe and that the future of a Europe that does not escort Catalonia is not a promising future for Europe either. Therefore, we explained the great debates of Europe, that they are also the great debates of Catalonia, and we used as the slogan of these conferences and their conclusions, precisely, the « Listen, Europe, in relation, therefore, to the ode of our esteemed poet Maragall. The future is in Europe, but listen, Europe, in this sense of ambition. Because we look at Europe, our civil society looks at Europe, looks at the Mediterranean, too. In fact, this gives us a double strategic value. And in the march of Europe and the Mediterranean, we find a lot of work that has been done and that they are still doing, that we will continue to do with renewed ambition and with great determination, and that we come from the hands of municipalities, from the hands of civil society, both from the private world and from the civic world. Read what has been Catalan external action without putting into value what has been done by the Catalans first that we have outside, that they are grouped to Catalan couples; this federation that is the FIEC; the sensitisation work that has done an entity like Platform for Language; the ANC; Cultural Ómnium; the external assemblies; the commercial camels, that have also contributed in many moments to opening spaces that have been determining. And, of course, also the Council for the Republic, with more than one hundred and a thousand members, a very remarkable number, and encapsulated for President Puigdemont who, in Europe, more than being the referent, right? , of the Catalan cause – I can assure you, because I have seen it in each of my travels and in each of the meetings and conversations – that it has become a referent not only for Catalonia, but in the defense of human rights. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, we will not give up from the government to do external action. We'll never do that. It's the right and it's the right we have, we'll grow, we'll consolidate, we'll professionalize, because this department was born at a politically very complicated time and it's relatively young. Therefore, we have work to do to consolidate ourselves. And we won't hear our successes if they don't go hand in hand with an organized civil society that has a vocation to work outside. Therefore, as counsel, we take the duty of generating the set of circumstances where we can act and where we can add with the actions of all these organizations. Thank you all very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.40.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the adverse effects of macro-granges]] [[300-00097/13]] And now, at the end of the order of the day, we ask the Government about the harmful effects of the macro-granges, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pom. You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry to Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.41.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies the deputies. The truth is that we have presented this question because there is a public debate about macrogranges, because we have it pending, but above all, because every time we talk about macrogranges we have the feeling that everything is transformed into a very banal debate where the problem is either the "xuletons", the curses..., the reflections never leave the common spaces already repeated as in tears, and we would like to have a serious debate about the sector. Because, in fact, in all the more or less economic sectors, with more or less loyalty, with more or less depth, we have strategic debates. In the automotive sector a few years ago we talked about the electric car, about electrification, about industry 4.0, about the changes in the use of the cars, about the space of the cars to the city... And it's a fundamental and central industry in the metropolitan area of Barcelona and in the immediate vicinity of our country. But we never have the feeling that we can never have a serious debate about the present and future of our country's food sector. Why, what would happen if you said in that interview instead of saying, "If you've eaten bad guys all day today, you wouldn't be in this interview, you said, "if you've come in an electric car, you wouldn't be in this interview today?" Maybe 20 or 30 years ago, this could be part of a state of opinion, but we believe that one and the other today should no longer be part of a state of opinion and less governments in our country. Surely, in this debate it also weighs a history of relations with the primary sector of our country and surely, today too it is allowed to trivialize – not just you, eh? , but many political forces in this country – the debate on the primary sector, because there have been many times a paternalistic relationship if not in many cases« head directly to the workers and to the producers of the primary sector. But we believe that one and the other are pages that we must move on to the history of our country. Because the mainstay of the primary sector is that it has the same challenges as the other sectors produced in our country: how we face the economic transition of food production in our country, how we face the challenge of depopulation in our country and how we face the challenge of doing it by preserving the creation of quality employment, quality work in our country. But everything he said in that interview and in the subsequent statements, what I was most concerned about is not about the curses, only when you said that we did the best things in Catalonia. And I think the first question we'd have to ask him is what he thinks we've done better in Catalonia, because I'm going to hand him some data. In the field of economic transition, it is not that we have done things better; it is that it is difficult to find regions across Europe that have done things worse and that are in such a critical situation as we find ourselves in. The central challenge of the ecological transition in the production of corn, we all know what the management of residues, of purins in particular, is that they pose a problem for our country. At the conjunct of Espanya the twenty_per_cent of the surface has been declared vulnerable zone of nitrates, area that is already contaminated by nitrates. In Catalonia anem for a third part of the country already declared vulnerable zone of nitrates, in already contaminated zone. Because we have a vulnerable area, but in reality the vulnerable are the other areas. These are already vulnerable areas; they are areas that have already been contaminated and that the soil and the underground waters are no longer of use. We have another problem: almost half the groundwater in Catalonia's groundwater is already contaminated by nitrates. Water supplies in Catalonia are no longer in use because they are contaminated by nitrates; sweet water in our country that can no longer be used for certain uses, and that is a more strategic resource, not only for the primary sector, but also for the city and production sectors. And lastly, in the matter of ecological transition, obviously, the emissions of ammonia, which we have not only not reduced, but we have doubled them in six years. And you say that things have been better in Catalonia, but there has been an agreement in the European Union to reduce ammonia emissions, and between 1990 and 2015, ammonia emissions in the European Union have dropped by one-twenty-five percent and in the same period of time in Catalonia have increased by one-twenty-five percent. We believe that this is a situation that cannot be maintained, that it is not true that we have done things better, but that we have done every once in a while bigger a problem that is causing a sector, a whole productive sector that is strategic for our country to a race without exit. And, therefore, the first question we want to ask him is: how does he appreciate the situation in the sector? Because we think it's obvious that with the sector's contamination data, you can't rate it very positively. And what failed during these years to get us to a situation like this? And what exactly does he think they've done better? Because with the data on the table, we are from the worst regions of Europe: we have not only restored contaminated waters, we have not only restored contaminated soils, we are not adding more and more every time on the table. And, therefore, what do you plan to do in the department before this situation? Because it is obvious that the measures taken for the different departments are not reversing the situation or mitigating it. And, therefore, we believe that it is obvious that we need to make a plan for the sector as a whole. Why is there a key question that I would like to have answered today in parliamentary session: what is the piggy house that Catalonia can endure? We already have 8 million pigs in this country. And despite the restrictions we've been building these years, the problem of contamination does not stop increasing, and does not stop increasing because it does not stop increasing the name of pigs in our country. And, therefore, who is the pig cabin that you fix as a limit and that you fix as a reference to address this problem? Because what's obvious is that if we keep increasing the pig cabin, we can narrow down after we want the problem to get bigger every time. And in the matter of depopulation and job creation, balance is no more positive. If we pass the data from your own department, one of your pig farms has disappeared in just over two years; since 2008, one of your pig farms has disappeared from our country. Each time we have fewer barns, fewer productive projects, which give work, stalled in the territory, each time we have fewer barns, but every time we have more pigs. This is not the case in a crisis in the sector. We are not seeing a davalada in production; what we are seeing is another thing: it is a concentration of ownership and a change of the model produced in our country. We've got a million more pigs than he's given years and a thousand fewer barns than he's given years. And this is a situation that is unsustainable, which is obviously affecting the sector's conjunction, this movement of concentration of ownership. We've lost a lot of jobs in the sector, because the macrogranges don't just focus production on a place in the territory, but a macrogranze of nine thousand, two thousand pigs, can carry it perfectly only two workers in an integrated chain of engreix. Perfectly. It is true that after that there is a problem of waste management, but it can be carried perfectly by the workers. And we've lost a thousand family farms in this country, while we've been building macro farms in very determined locations in this country. What do they know? That the replacement of barns for macrogranges is destroying our country's occupation and that the people with the most macrogranges are precisely the ones who lose the most population. A few months ago Ecologists in Action made a report in which it made a statistical correlation that is obvious: in the eighty-five_per_cent of the municipalities of Barcelona and in the north-u_per_cent of the municipalities of Lleida, the municipalities with the largest number of pigs in industrial barns have lost more population, or won less at the times when they have won the population, than in the municipalities own and similar with the least concentration of pigs and with the least projects of macrogranges. And, therefore, the macro-granges are not only accentuating the ecological problem in our country, they are increasing the problem of rural depopulation and the lack of economic opportunities. We believe that it is obvious that we are facing a pig can, a production can that when China and other countries start, as they are already doing, to replace imports of food for own production, this will have an impact on the sector, and that it is obvious that, every time, small and medium-sized producers tend to have more difficulty in supporting the competence of these macro-exploitations. And the last question I wanted to ask him: this week we were at the Canós, the Segarra, visiting a project that has already been made public to put a macrograng of 9,500 pigs in a village, in a municipality, in a pedany, of twenty-three inhabitants. What is the department's position and what will it do about this project? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.42.0	Next, there is the advisor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.43.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Ferro, deputies and deputies, very late at all and at all. Let me begin by thanking him for his inquiry, and so also have the opportunity, you too, to debate a subject that now seems to be topical, but that, since the Council, we have long been concerned and concerned about it, eh? ,despite these last headlines. Also, let me tell you that it is a question – you said it too – of great relevancy as to discuss it with sincerity and not as a headline – it would not serve us absolutely anything else – and in a magical way neither, and even populist, as someone has claimed. And it couldn't start any other way than to make it clear that one of the great challenges we have with the country – it's not the first time I feel like it – is to drive an agri-food sector that is sustainable. And when we talk about a sustainable agri-food sector we talk about this sector with economic sustainability, environmental sustainability, as it cannot be otherwise, and also social; it is, to say, a model, the model that we like, the model with which we feel identified, our model, the one that seeks the balance between economic sustainability and the environment and, obviously, preservation – you also did not talk, and it is not the first time – about territorial cohesion. We are clear that we do not want large-scale barns to make family farms, small farms or even smaller ones disappear, but neither do the middle-sized ones, which ultimately fix the people to the territory, the living ones, let alone this country. In other words, we have to bet that sustainability, in the sense of doubt, in capital letters, follows the link between producers and producers and citizens; that is why we need to try to extrapolate and bring this debate between the rural world and the urban world; that would obviously be a mistake. This government – and I have said this on various occasions – is at a hundred-per-cent compromises in addressing the challenge of making it compatible, because it has to be, because it is possible to do so – is not all compatible in this world; yes – food sovereignty and environmental sovereignty, and we also have to make it work and socially possible. We want to transform it into an even more sustainable and respectful web of natural resources, obviously embedded in the concept of a single salvation; and this concept seems to me important, and when I say a single salvation I basically refer to making human salvation indestriable, obviously, animal salvation and environmental salvation as well. The sector and the administrations also have to be able to look for the paths that lead to a branch – you said – much more respectful with animals, with the environment, with people and, at the same time, which is economically sustainable. But it is true that in this debate there have been many things, mass, sense of doubt; the band of demagogic headlines, as we say, mass concepts, some confused and quite imprecise, and I believe, if it allows me, Mr. Ferro, that it is opportune and enlightening and necessary to lose a minute in defining what we are talking about. Because, otherwise, the debate I think would be in vain, a debate that will certainly not end here today, not much less; from time to time we will have. Look, the concept of macrogranges is a concept, from the start, subject – and we have to say – it is not regulated or defined at all. We talk, therefore, of extensive rowing or we talk of intensive rowing or, if they allow me, we talk of semi-intensive rowing, which little or nothing is to be seen – which little or nothing is to be seen – with dimensions, but with the way to produce; this is extremely important: with the way to produce. In the first place, extensive farming: the one in which animals are fed in a nutritious way with grazing. In the second place, the intensive: the animals are allocated and are fed permanently from the installations, including the exploitation also in the free area. And third, the semi-intensive: when the food is based on the grass, but the animals are indoors during a certain period of the year or..., normally in winter, or well during the night. We do not take away the debate, in any case – in any case – but we should not do so without speaking with property, with data. In fact, you asked me... this is very important: data and knowledge. Which standards we also keep in the abaster, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. In fact, the tendency of the world in which we live..., he said, was to be generous and because I believe, if not when I refer to this country, that we are extremely concerned and clearly directed towards this green transformation, sense of doubt; but it means that the tendency of the world in which we live was of a development that was completely out of place, completely out of place, growing, unabated, where we ourselves, not the storehouse, but all the spheres, all, absolutely all the spheres of society, we have destroyed biodiversity in the manta, we have polluted water, we have contaminated the air, we have contaminated the earth, all in favor of one, let me thus, poorly named progress. And that's what we did, all of us, like society, and we have to say it, and we have to say it. But we also have to say that, by luck, as a society – and I understand that this Parliament is concerned with this – we have not already added ourselves, we are changing our model. Probably late – surely late – because of everyone. And now we're probably going to have to go a little faster, but in any case, the sector that we've been in for a while now – and so I'll explain – that's working there. Obviously, society as a whole also, as it cannot otherwise be, to cope with this climate emergency, to recover, in a sense of doubt, the environmental balance with measures such as the European Green Pact or the assimilation of the different objectives of sustainable development. And from the government, as it cannot be otherwise, we have had to update ourselves and equip ourselves with new ones in order to face this challenge. I don't explain four – you know them, you know them because we haven't talked about it –: the first is the decree that we passed through this Parliament, four years more than a moratorium – we approved it last July –, the extension of these four years more than an opening moratorium or expansion of pig barns, concretely, in sixty-four municipalities with a large number of farms and water, obviously contaminated by nitrates from purines, huh? For this reason, the extension of the moratorium is also part of a new model of management of waste management by means of a strategic plan that we have explained, and that I am ready to expand it even further, of fertility and management of waste management with different measures – with different measures. All these measures – and this is where I give you a point or answer to a question that you asked me before – have allowed this country, have allowed Catalonia, unlike other territories – to differ from other territories – to remain recently out of the process of non-compliance with the nitrate directive opened by the European Commission against the Spanish State in 2018. That's why three years ago. Does that mean we're okay? No, no, No, they're fatal. Does that mean we've gotten a lot better? No, no, But we've improved enough to get out, obviously, out of this default procedure. Obviously, much remains to be done, much remains to be reversed, but we are, let's hide, in the right direction, and that we have to say, and this has not been done only by this department or the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Ramaderia. That's done the sector too, and that's very valuable, and it's very important. Another key piece is the new orderly decree, which I will not be able to extend now, but in any case, the objective is to limit large farms in this decree, and to accompany them in smaller sizes and more familiar models that promote the relation of the population to the rural environment. In this case, therefore, we are already talking about a limitation of six-hundred cows for the nine farms, and also, in the case of the dairy cow basically, a sector that is patenting at these times, to accompany it also with a support plate to the Atlantic sector to improve the current situation, so much of the marketing – important – but also improving the efficiency of the production processes, of all of them, as well as the help to competitiveness, etcetera. And another important step, that we are already going to approve the preliminary memorandum to the Executive Board, which is the draft law of sustainable agricultural production and also sustainable ramifications. In this sense, there is a lot of work to be done, but, to be sure, we are moving forward on these objectives that you were talking to me about, and that we obviously share. As you see, we have tools, we are working with more and more new tools, i.e., to get a ramader model that is more sustainable. We can't just do that. This must obviously be accompanied by the sector with the best instruments and tools. And that's what we're all about, huh? And not since today, nor since anyone has put the debate on macro-granges in the gallery, but from years ago, from a long time ago. And I say, we can't do it alone, we need the sector, and we want a model that counts on the imprecise role of our country's intensive network, that it's efficient – that it's efficient – that it's professional, that it's technified, but it's also encouraging – sense of doubt, too – territorial cohesion that facilitates the installation of new barns in places where there is less concentration, if that's the case, but it's obvious that one of the most important missions of this department – I've heard it say many times – is to feed the people, and that we have to do it with the best of food, with the most without, with the most sure and with the most quality. And that, too, is to say, only the pages, the pages, the rowers, the rowers, the fishers and the fishers can do it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.44.0	Then, and in the turn of the line, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.45.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. If you'll allow me a little morning, keep an eye on this and say that the changes are going to be arranged with the sector, that there are people in the Republican Left who don't like social concertation very much. According to the question, there is a debate that exclusively links food production with food and food safety in our country. It's a very interesting debate, I haven't been able to talk about it. It's obvious, and foundations with justice food work there a lot. There is excessive consumption of red meat in our country, it is known, but we also have to say one thing: the eighty-five percent of the meat we produce is to export, and therefore the role of carnies in our country is not only – or this is not the engine of growth – to feed the people, but to take advantage of an advantageous position to export meat, especially to China. And there's a problem. That the world is changing very quickly, and so is food production. Today there are countries with Argentina, like Mexico, like the own Xina, which is making farms of twenty and twenty-five plants to replace imports, which they want to contribute and export, and this will make the sector change very drastically. Why when there's a bump in the supply of meat products to Catalonia, with a model built basically to export and very industrialized, who will be the first to fail? A macro-tree of deu_mil, of fifteen_mil pigs that is integrated into a large food group or small and medium-sized producers of this country? To whom will they donate first batch in the escorts? Who can be more flexible lowering prices? And it's obvious that we're going to a problem; that's to say, I think it's obvious that we're living a bottle, that it's going to fix more or less quickly, but it's going to fix in the future properly in our country. That will leave us an oversized sector and that will leave us to many small and medium-sized producers with very little competitive capacity. And this requires leadership to address this challenge today too; to address the challenge of diversifying the sector, avoiding the concentration of ownership in the sector, and preventing large food groups from making real meat factories in our country at the cost of having shut down thousands of small and medium-sized producers in Catalonia a decade ago. And that if we don't address the problem today, when we want to address it because it adjusts the offer and the demand, the year it sees, two years from now, five years from now or from now to God, we will be late in planning the future of the sector. There is a problem, too, which has to do with its double appearance as a Sustainability and Agriculture Adviser, Ramaderia i Pesca i de Món Rural, that a person does not know very well who has to answer here in which questions. I think it is obvious that we cannot make such an optimistic diagnosis beyond the European Commission's report on the situation in Catalonia. Because decontamination of soils and aquifers in Catalonia will be a task that will last years and years. But it's that we're not able to reverse the situation, because there's a question that hasn't answered me. It is very difficult to reduce contamination in soil and in aquifers in our country if the pig cabin has increased by 1_million_i_mig of pigs. Because the pigs do the same droppings today, which is a year ago. A little bit less nitrogen, because they've improved a little bit the pinso, but they make the same discards. And that's also a problem of space and limits. And there are commas that are absolutely on the edge. The Sawmill is another. I asked him the question, which he didn't answer either: what is the pig cabin that Catalonia needs? But also, what do we do with commarques in this country that are already oversized and on which they are still planning projects like the macro-tree of the Canós? That it's obvious that it'll end up depopulating the cano pedanty, and it's obvious that it'll end up contaminating even more a region like the Segarra. Guissona years ago, when I lived there, was the doll of the Segarra. There was a water bottler factory, the Font del Pi, and it's not there anymore. And the subsoil is contaminated, and the aquifers that gave the name to the Doll of the Saw, are no longer serviceable. And not only do nitrates have a problem for the health of people who consume nitrate-contaminated mouth water, but water is a strategic resource for the future of this country, and especially sweet water. And, either we start to intervene today and restore the ecological value of the aquifers and the surface needles, because almost a quarter of the rivers are also contaminated by nitrates, or we will have a problem in a very few years, and therefore what we demand, and with this end, is leadership with the sector. That it is not allowed to carry for good words and for common places, and it is able to lead a sector towards a transformation that is necessary, to ensure that it is fought against depopulation, to guarantee quality occupation, but also to guarantee an economically and ecologically sustainable future for the sector. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.46.0	And finally, there's the word Mrs. Teresa Jordà's counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.47.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. It seems to me that... it seemed to me that he had explained it to me well. Maybe I didn't, huh? It's obvious that society, in general, we've lived out of the way, and the fruit of this out of control, so I don't know what we got to where we got to, huh? And that's what all of them must be responsible for, and since some year ago, and some decade, or more than a decade ago. That said, I didn't say we didn't have a contamination problem. Absolutely. We are extremely aware, and as we are extremely aware, not until recently, at a time when we have been extremely aware, even though we are talking about some concrete policies at European level, this department has been able to work. And that brought us some small solution and knowing that the path is the right one, but the work that remains for us, as well as you pointed out, is naught. I think we need to be alert, and I'm not saying this for you, because statements do only mean criminalizing, that is to say, a sector that is trying, that is trying... – there are always exceptions – to evolve into a much more sustainable model. And that's what we have to say, huh? Because, look, my friends in this country are doing the right thing, but we also need to be able to say, and without shaking our eyes or hands, obviously, that they're not doing the right thing – they're not doing the right thing – and that like the Generalita we're acting before those who aren't doing the right thing. I will give him a given, because in the end this is rigour, and the data, obviously, point and falsify things well: the department, from 2017 to 2021– is to say, I already put a small band of time –, we have opened 579 shippers for incompletion of dumps in this country, with economic sanctions. There is a very different scale, obviously, among all of them, that add up, but all together, 600,000_euros, huh? I mean, the department's on top of it. The case of Canos – I don't want to stop answering it, huh? – about this concrete case, what I can tell you right now is that it is obviously gathering, as it cannot otherwise be, information, evaluating the project to see whether it is fit or not. Now, what I'm saying is that if it is to pass, that I don't know – I don't know – it will pass all the environmental criteria, as it can't be in any way, ramaders and animal welfare, as it couldn't be in any other way, which are the ones we have established today. Because Councilwoman Jordan, as much as she leads, what she can't do is decide "that's right, that's not right. I'd just miss it. There are some laws, there are some regulations, obviously, that we must complete. And obviously, it will have to be adapted, as it cannot otherwise be, to the relevant legislation governing economic activities. In fact, without exception; as all, I would only miss, and each of the farms in this country. Leave me a point, too, because I think it's very important and it's been a little bit high. I've named it, but I'm sure it's been a little bit high, because it's obvious we can't talk about everything at all, because it gives a lot of thought to this debate. I said it before, didn't I? : the mission of this department, among others, is to ensure that the Catalan people in the medium and long term have access to a food sufficient and nutritious to last an active and healthy life. For this reason, for example, and I also give you this example, this sale opened a pilot plant for the treatment and transformation of fertilizers in Muntanyola, because it is a project, that is to say, that will be perfectly arranged with the strategy that previously commented on the management and treatment of fertilizers in Catalonia. This is why we also explained that we are developing a guide to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs in the food sector, because we are also convinced that the path is that of sustainability, economic and environmental, because yes, the two are absolutely compatible, because we have to move from conventional product models to a more sustainable production following clearly established horizons for the European Union, as it cannot otherwise be, in the 2030 Agenda and the European Green Pact. And because we want the actions of the Vaginal Department to be directed all of them towards a product model that finds balance, this balance between production-competitivity and the preservation of resources and environment for the other, resources that are obviously finite, even though for a long time this society is thought that they were not. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-25-2201.48.0	All right, thank you very much, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you very much.
