ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Support and solidarity demonstration with Ukraine]] On the 24th of February we started the plenary denouncing the very serious violation of the international law that constituted the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. For this reason, the Parliament approved with the support of six of the eight parliamentary groups in the Chamber a statement by the Board of Spokesmen on Russia's aggression on Ukraine. In just thirteen days, when the cruelty and ignominy of this senseless war intensified, there is already a balance of thousands of deaths and, now I was talking about the Ukrainian constellation, of two million displaced people, in two weeks. The wars undoubtedly show the worst face of humanity. That is why we are obliged to respond firmly, with conviction and in defence of freedom, security and the lives of those who suffer them in a more severe and cruel way. The Catalan society has become a supporter of Ukraine. The Catalan institutions have shown us our need for this aggression and we have offered all the means we have to help those who are most affected by this war. The country has stopped its solidarity and every day there are more cases of Catalans offering themselves to gather Ukrainian families to their home, and even going to look for them personally at the border, with the means at their disposal. This solidarity of the people of Catalonia we want to show today to the guest of honor who visits us in the Parliament, the Honourable Artem Vorobyov, Ukrainian General Council in Barcelona. And he is also accompanied by the head of the Office of the European Parliament in Barcelona and the representative of the European Commission in Barcelona. You are very welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Yesterday, it was March 8th, and feminist demonstrations were also the result of this "No to war". They have seen that the Parliament has arranged various ceilings in different spaces of the chamber where there are children who express their desires for the future; some of the children of the college Pompeu Fabra, from Salt, representing the more than seventy-thousand students who visit the Parliament every year. That all these children can grow up without thinking about their bodies, without having to go home overnight, without having to decide whether or not to have children personally or professionally, without thinking that they will charge less than their fellow men, without job insecurity because they decide to take care of their families and without anyone giving the word, because they take it, because they have it. Let's all join in building a better future for them, which will also be for the company's joint venture. Let's start, then, with the session. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the dossier, and, in accordance with Rule 164, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item of the agenda. I inform you that for this plenary session there are two Members who have delegated their votes, and there are also two Members who join Parliament, and we welcome them. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] According to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year, 2022 there are already a total of 234 victims of death and disappearances in the Mediterranean. Let's start, then, with the first point of the order of the day, the questions with oral answer. [[Ask the Government about the gathering of Ukrainian refugees]] [[310-00214/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the gathering of Ukrainian refugees. The question is posed by Mrs Meritxell Serret, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, president, deputies, deputies. Today I greet and wish to greet the Ukrainian Council, which today accompanies us, and to express our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people, who are the victims of this war, and also with the relatives who have suffered from the distance. The invasion of Ukraine is a clear violation of the Charter of the United Nations and of the international law, with devastating effects on the civilian population, causing one of the hardest humanitarian and refugee crises in recent times, and it is an armed, cruel conflict that causes many people to seek refuge and protection in other countries. And in this case, the women, the young and the children are once more the ones who suffer the most from this gratuitous violence. And it's a new fracture for humanity. The job in favor of the cock is and will always be a Republican Left compromise. That's why we call for the fire to be lifted, that we find the diplomatic path again and that the parties are conjugating to find a solution to this conflict in a peaceful and democratic way, and also that while we open humanitarian corridors, we provide basic products to victims of the conflict and support organisations working in the defence of human rights in the territory. And here we thank so many entities, institutions and people that these days are mobilizing solidly in favor of victims. But we cannot forget that it is the Spanish State that has the competence of asylum and refuge. And we demand, from here too, that the petitions of the victims of war be transmitted with the utmost celerity, lamenting, sadly, that victims without Ukrainian nationality cannot benefit. In the face of this military, political and humanitarian crisis, and as he reminds us with his own eyes and his actions, the company Ruben Wagensberg these days from Ukraine, it is our moral duty to do everything possible to give support and support to refugees, because Catalonia is a host country. For all this, counsel, we would be grateful if you could explain to us the actions that have taken place since the government and its department to give a quick response to all the victims of the war seeking refuge here in Catalonia, at our home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.3.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, consol. Member, we are indeed ahead of a terrible humanitarian crisis which at the same time is unprecedented in the framework of the European Union. Unlike the strong Europe to which we are accustomed, this time the temporary protection that will guarantee this residence permit, work, places us in another scene; also because the Ukrainian people already had freedom of movement in the Schengen area. And that made us not wait for the state's realization of how this situation or this increase in seats in the state program will be credited, but two weeks ago the Government of the Generality began to prepare for this welcome of emergence; a welcome that we understand that, besides, it does not have to work centrally. We are active in the committee for refugees, which is the country, the inter-departmental, inter-sectoral body, and we are the departments of the Generality, which are active resources that are closed to the gathering, and there are municipal entities, and there are also specialized entities in the gathering, in the shelter. This committee of gathering refugees has also articulated the national contingency table, in order to be able to give this first response to the emergence, so many housing resources, as maintenance, as psychological monitoring services, legal advice, interpretation, translation; the activation of 012, with the Infomigration service available on the week seven days, and in Ukraine, too. And contingency tables that we are reproducing with the participation of the local world, of the government delegations and the territorial services of the departments involved, within the territory, in order to be able to accompany the municipalities when they are vaginas detecting needs, when vaginas arrive refugees. Most of the people who have arrived so far are women and creatures and are mostly, as I say, welcomed to the home of family members; the people are located there where there is a network of family members or acquaintances. We are also activating the strength of the TimexCures program because precisely many will be single-parent families, women with their creatures, so that they can also access these services and that women can have this time for their self-care, so that they can recover psychologically from the situation, because they can, too, have space to look for work. The departments, therefore, are working in a coordinated way, the State has to do its dues and concretely... [[Pause.]] I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.5.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the educational offer of the 2022-2023 school year. [[Ask the Government about the educational offer of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[310-00215/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Najat Driuech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all; good morning, Ukrainian Council. Councillor Cambray, we recently saw how the syndic highlighted the advances in reducing school segregation despite the difficulty imposed by the pandemic. According to the balance report on the pact against school segregation in Catalonia, we see that since the signing of the pact, school segregation levels have been reduced by 10_per_cent; more than 60_per_cent of the municipalities have also reduced their segregation; the detection of the students with specific educational needs for economic reasons has increased by 50_per_cent, and the assignment of living registration in the centres of high complexity has also been reduced from 40..., to 36_per_cent; percentages that show that we are going for the right way, but that we still have a lot of work to do. And it is for this reason that we celebrate that in the pre-registration of our own school year we can begin to apply the admission decree to combat school segregation, with economic measures and support to move firmly towards the necessary balance in the allocation of the studentship between the public and the concerted, before the entry of the child education system 3 and first of the ESO; a measure, therefore, that together with the withdrawal of public funding from those centers that, by reason of gender or social origin, seek to continue consolidating a country education project for everyone, based on equality, equity and social justice, can offer free and quality education. Connected with this, we also celebrate that, in addition to the gratuity of the next infantile 2 course, I announced the reduction of the childile 3 ratio to the next course to follow the path of the 2030 Agenda and the historical requests of the educational community, always placing the student in the center of the system and also thinking of the teacher as the key piece of this system. And that's why, counselor, we're asking him about the application of the admissions decree to combat school segregation... and also the announcement of the reduction of ration to child 3 for the next course. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.7.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.8.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Driuech, you were commenting: diluns started the pre-registration process at the country's schools and today starts at the institutes. In this pre-registration process we have two great innovations, two great paradigm changes. One of the important stakes of this Department of Education, one of the important stakes of this Republican government, is the fact of fighting against school segregation. In this fight against school segregation, you said very well, we have made a way, but it is also true that we have a long way to go. And that's why, in view of course 22-23, we have..., we'll focus on detecting all the students in a vulnerable situation. Because one time we have segregated schools – which we have them – we invest as many resources as possible so that these students are at the most well-educated, but they continue to have segregated schools. And, therefore, what we need to do and what we will do in a structured way is to detect the student in a vulnerable situation and distribute it in a balanced way at the entrance of the system, to children 3 and first of ESO in all publicly funded centres, public centres and concerted centres. And the main novelty for the coming course is that this student detected in a vulnerable situation will be accompanied by the coming course of economic resources, both at the public school and at the concerted school, in order to guarantee 100_per_cent of their equal opportunities in everything I want to see with the school. And the next big novelty is that we start a way to reduce the rates to the country's schools, and that's a long time since the education community asked us to do so. Faced with the coming course, the ninety-nine_per_cent of the public school groups and the seventy-three_per_per_cent of the concertee are at a rate lower than twenty-five. And the eighty-six_per_cent of the public school and the thirty-seven_per_cent of the concertation, at or below twenty-seven. And that we could have done in another way, because it's been a long time since it's been democratic at the entrance to the system. But we decide, in the face of our own course, not to reduce groups and reduce ration. And, therefore, for the next few years, we will have much less structurally segregated schools, with an economic contribution from the first student– and this had never happened–, and we will have Catalan schools starting a path to the reduction of rates, and therefore, with more groups, with more teachers and with fewer children for each class. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.9.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the Conseil Català de Petits Municipis. [[Ask the Government about the Conseil Català de Petits Municipis]] [[310-00216/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Torrentà, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.10.0	Thank you. Consellera Vilagrà, of the 947 municipalities of Catalonia, 332 are less than five hundred inhabitants and 261 more arrive until two_ thousand. We are talking that sixty-two percent of the people belong to the so-called small; very heterogeneous small people distributed throughout the territory and needed for the balance of the country. While we have few inhabitants, we have a lot on the surface and we are essential in the energy transition and in the demographics of urban areas. Few human and economic resources for an extensive territory, with specific problems, some compartments: depopulation, lack of infrastructure and little digitization. Despite all this, we believe in the strength of the little ones, we create alliances among ourselves at all levels: we have made it face to face with the cove, also with the gathering of refugees, for the repopulation and also to carry the culture out of rural peoples. We drive it through associations like that of micropopulations, which retreats and articulates our needs and requests to get them to the Administration. President Aragonès started this legislature with four transformations: democracy, social, feminist and sustainable. The new Generality, of republic leadership, is working to make these changes possible. Changes that are not possible without the view and active participation of the citizenry of all municipalities, also rural or small ones. We have the tools to ensure this participation, but out of disinterest or desirousness there were no jobs for them. The Presidential Decree 199/2003 created the Conseil Català de Petits Municipis as a consultative organ of the Government. Few days ago you expressed your willingness to reactivate it after almost twenty years. To this will is added the recovery also of the Council of Local Governments, after seven years inactive. An ambitious agenda of democratic participation for a government that believes and sees municipalism. We'd like to ask you about the state of this reactivation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.11.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.12.0	Yes, thank you, President. Deputy, first of all, an immense thanks to people like you, who are mayors and mayors of small municipalities in population but great in extension and reptes. He knows that we are very aware of the diversity that this country has in the local world and, in any case, with the interlocution that we have from the Department of Presidency with the Association of Micropopulations, but also with rural repopulation tools. In this case, fifty rural municipalities that have grouped together and that we were able to speak last week with sixty mayors representing these five hundred to the Solsones. We wanted to talk a lot, we wanted to talk about territorial rebalancing, opportunities for everyone – born where born – mobility, connectivity, economic development, suitable housing for everyone, educational opportunities, especially for young people. Therefore, a firm compromise that we are going to take from the Department of Presidency, but that is obviously extended to all government departments, as well as Parliament – because I am aware that Parliament also works very intensively in this line – municipal associations... In any case, many actors that we conjure up just to pull these backs. We have already done so, we already have various tools, such as the Rural Agenda of the Department of Climate Action, a participatory process that was done to mark a full course of actions, of projects, in this sense. Also with the law accompanying the assumptions we were able to introduce, on the part of the Vice-President, the facilitation of housing in the rural area. But we know we're due, you pointed it out. In this sense, activate the Conseil Català de Petits Municipis, which, in fact, is what they claim to be, so, in a clear way, to listen to the view of the small municipalities in population but big in front, but also – and so we are going to compromise ourselves last week – to draw up this status of rural or micro-populated municipalities – in this case, the name does not do the thing, we must just see how we articulate it –, which will surely be a status that will create normal, legislative changes, and, therefore, we will have to keep the work also very intense in Parliament to reverse the depopulation or – said in positive – to promote the repopulation. We know that repte is naught, we know that it's absolutely necessary and we know that we'll get out of it, because we'll do folds. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.13.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the supplementary risk fund. [[Ask the Government about the supplementary risk fund]] [[310-00223/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Canadell, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs, Slava Ukrainians. Honourable Councillor Giró, complex situations often require complex solutions. I want to talk to you about the thirty-four ex-charges and officials of the Generality accused, unjustly, in order to exercise competitions in external action – admitted, of course, to the State of Catalonia –, to which it will be required a endorsement of 5,4_million euros that the majority of those affected could not establish and, therefore, put their own personal assets at risk for the fact, simply, to have exercised their functions. As you have said several times in this chamber, you cannot exercise the tasks of public servants with by, because by restricting freedom. And that's what you're looking for a demophobic state like Spanish to limit up to and all the skills that we're recognizable to. From our parliamentary group, we are very grateful to him because, as soon as he arrived at the council, he sought solutions to a problem that, as he said, is complex, and found them in the form of a decree, approved on 6 July, just six weeks after his possession as a councillor. A complex problem that made more than four years that was on the table. This decree to create a complementary fund of risks that you assume those that are not included in the insurance policies signed by the Government of Catalonia, soon after it was validated in this chamber, as all of you must remember. And in the last plenary, fifteen days ago, we turned it into law, with the favorable vote of one hundred and two of the 135 deputies of this chamber. A clear majority. We want to take advantage of this law, from our parliamentary group, to thank these hundred and two Members for supporting it, as they have worked together to solve this complex problem. The Court of Auditors did the right thing, and we have succeeded in finding that the Court of Auditors does not deal with its own; it was very complicated, since this decree counted on a favourable opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, by unanimity, certainly, and an approved law for a large majority of this chamber representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. And that's just before the court's meeting to deal with the appeal filed. All in all, this close to complex solutions, prepared with rigour, seeking legal and parliamentary support, has caused this Court of Auditors to have no choice but to accept, in the final analysis, the endorsements presented for the ICF. With all this, counselor, I wanted to ask you what your expectation is in relation to the unconstitutionality resources that some parties have presented. Thank you very much and very good work, counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.15.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mr Canadell, as a matter of principle, I always trust that the common sense and justice will end up imposing, as I said 15 days ago here at the Faristol and how it ended up in the Court of Auditors. This law is a technically solid law, legally impeccable and approved by a very large majority of this Parliament. So any of you can imagine what a neutral court would decide. But, as everyone knows – and in Europe too – Spanish justice has proven to be very permeable to politics. Let us not forget that the main judicial organ of the State has been blocked for more than three years only because the PP and the PSOE have to discuss which of their people are not to be part of. And it's been blocked for over 1,200 days. Therefore, I do not venture to venture that will resolve the Constitutional Court. And this uncertainty, Mr. Canadell, is an uncertainty that generates insecurity, that generates anxiety. I have explained that this complementary fund of risks allows public servants to act in the legitimate work without, but this does not come to any other reality: the reality that to do politics in Catalonia from sovereignism is a risky activity – it is a risky activity. I think only of the case on this ground by prevarication and misappropriation of the entire public against three members of this government, among them, myself, President Aragonès also, presented before the High Court of Justice for two parties represented in this same chamber. The cause was dismissed. But I made myself clear to all of us, that the intention of that initiative, like so many others, is to keep alive the feeling of for and for, still very present today at the time of political activity in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that this council and the whole government are working with perseverance to equip us with laws at the height of an authentic state, even though today we are still not following, a welfare state and a state of right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.17.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the situation in Ukraine. [[Ask the Government about the situation in Ukraine]] [[310-00224/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. A special greeting to the Council that has accompanied us to the Iniciator of the Ple, of Ukraine. Constellera Alsina, this dilluns the Department of External Action that you encapsulated it presented the new map of delegations for the year 2022; a project ambition that wants to guarantee the view of Catalonia to the world from an international network of twenty delegations, five offices and two special envoys, that will provide a geographical coverage to sixty-three countries. As you explained to the extent of your intervention, a part of all this reinforces our position in Europe at a time when it is more important than ever to be united before tyranny and oppression; but not only in Europe with an increase in presence, but also in Africa and America and in Asia with delegations from Japan and South Korea. The international vocation of Catalonia is obvious and this new network of delegations is not the exhibition. From Juntas per Catalunya, we want to put in place the fact that we deploy the common Catalan and fundamental values of democracy, freedom and peace, aware of the moment we are living and of the need for the free nations of Europe to defend them. Yes, we defended Ukraine's sovereignty threatened by an authoritarian state; we denounced and condemned, once more, the Russian military invasion and demanded the immediate end of hostilities. Violence is never the way to resolve conflict. More. Nor is the frivolity with which Mr. Josep Borrell, a senior representative of the European Union, is managing the crisis, with unacceptable declarations of a bloody war that is generating thousands of refugees and displaced people. From Junts we accompanied the Ukrainian community of Catalonia at this very difficult time. We have attended the public demonstrations that have been convened and we will continue to attend them. And since Juntes, in his parliamentary office, we want to thank the multiple aid exhibitions from all the towns and cities of the country, because Catalonia is solidarity and compromise with human rights. And that's what we were defending here and in Ukraine: human rights for everyone, armed from the world and with open arms for everyone who wants to settle in our home. After her leadership in the political, diplomatic and humanitarian response, we would like to ask her about the situation in Ukraine and, in particular, about the actions taken by her department in the wake of this severe crisis. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.19.0	To answer, the words "Victòria Alsina", adviser to Gouvernement Obert and External Action, are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. "Democrat countries must give their unequivocal support to Ukraine, a country that has the right to decide its future free of interference. This was the sentence with which an inquiry began a month ago in this Parliament before this war began. Where are we today? Today we are ahead of an imperialism and an authoritarian tyrant of Vladimir Putin, who denies Ukraine the right to exist. Today we are also in a situation, before millions of people with an admirable resilience that the whole world is following. Defend values that are European and, therefore, today Catalonia, Europe, we are all Ukraine. And, in this sense, the government bets on diplomacy, on multilateralism, gives support to the European Union, to these harsh sanctions, gives support to this European Union, which operates before the possibility of joining Ukraine to this union and says a ‘no to war' as a ‘no to Russia's war on Ukraine. And, therefore, all the days together we praise Ukrainians. We do it with a state of mind, we do it with professionalism, we do it without overacting and we do everything we can. The Department of Foreign Affairs was from the first moment available and giving response to all the petitions that brought us from the Ukrainian consulate. We have been from Barcelona and our delegations to Central Europe and the Balkans are meeting, therefore, the border areas, putting a transport service at the disposal of the thirty-three Catalans we contacted and who were there. And we have a task that starts today, it's going to be long and it's important, which is the whole human help task. Since the Catalan Agency of Cooperation has already begun to articulate aid mechanisms in multilateral agencies so that this is possible. It will be a specific line of grants for Catalan entities working in Ukraine and, above all, we want to coordinate this effort with the Catalan Committee for Humanitarian Aid of Emergencies, which we have gathered this dilluns and with which we have shared the need – and this is also a cry – that this help, that this solidarity that you see from the Government, but above all from the Catalan society, is channelled through specialized organisations working on land through economic contributions. Therefore, also on behalf of the Government, he wanted to share this message of support, coordination and help in the best way that can be done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.21.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Mobile World Congress. [[Ask the Government about the Valuation of Mobile World Congress]] [[310-00225/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Cristina Casol, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.22.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Vice President, last week he celebrated in Barcelona the Mobile World Congress at the new Gran Via Fira in Barcelona, at the Hospitallet de Llobregat. Encany, with the challenge of getting a face match again after two years marked for the pandemic where the 2020 edition was cancelled and the past year was made in hybrid format with a reduced faceality, now we are back to holding the world face convention. Because Mobile does not only boost our economy in the ICT sector, it represents an important impact on the tourism, restoration and the oci sector. And much more now, than we're in the process of recovering from the pandemic. And even more: the arrival of the world congress in Barcelona was a turning point for the Catalan digital ecosystem, which was accelerated by the year 2012 with the world capital of furniture. And now, today, we collect its fruits. Currently, technology is one of the most powerful change levers we have to generate opportunities. In order to demonstrate the importance of the ICT sector in Catalonia, we present you with figures. In Catalonia there have been nearly 1,400 foreign tech companies coming mainly from the United States, Germany, France and the United Kingdom. In Catalonia, the ICT sector is one of the most dynamic in the economy and has become one of the main engines of innovation, business creation and employment. And in Catalonia, specifically in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, we have one of the main digital hubs in Europe, because if we talk about hubs we can also say that Barcelona is one of the main startup hubs in southern Europe, behind Paris, Berlin, Stockholm and Amsterdam according to the 2021 index of the Global Startup Ecosystem. And, besides, Barcelona is the world's most attractive city design for digital experts following the late study of Boston's Decoding Digital Talent. So, the Mobile World Congress, together with the 4 Years from Now, the Congress of Emerging Entrepreneurs that was held in parallel the same days, are very important events for our country and place Catalonia in the world. For all this, today, from the Junts Parliamentary Group, we want to ask him: what is the appreciation of the Mobile World Congress of Encany? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.23.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.24.0	Yeah, good morning. President... thank you very much, Congresswoman. So look, there's been a lot of good Mobile and it's the Mobile of the recovery, with a few figures above expectations, that if we add more to this morning's news that it came out in a very important economic diary, the Expansion, it's said that 2021 seventy percent of the investments and nine companies that have been created or that have come to the Spanish State, the seventy percent have been in Catalonia, so they're figures that are, so to speak, a new plantation to all those that day again tell us that the Catalan economy is in decline. Not far from the reality, Mr. Carrizosa, that I see you're not listening to me. Miri, the best Mobiles in history, the best Mobiles were produced in the most intense moments of the independence process. So, listen, the Catalan economy is going like a shot. And, in this sense, they lost – they lost – all hope Mrs. Ayuso and Mr. Almeida: Mobile has a long life in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] But, miri, how do we tell some of us we're cuckolds, right? That Barça is more than a club, Mobile is more than a congress. It's a great brand of country, a great brand that projects this country into this new digital age. If we are all aware that in the industrial era it was very important to keep the big lines of cars – these are mostly in Germany and the United States – we have the luck that we have the most important technology of the time in Catalonia. And, therefore, we have to take care of this. This is a very busy sector. As I always say, the best social policy we can do for our citizens is that people are working. Well, this is a sector that generates and generates a lot of work, at the rate of the annual deu_per_cent of the last five years. So, it's a sector we need to look after, it's a sector we need to worry about, and it's a sector where, obviously, things like Mobile help us project the country, help us project Barcelona into the world. Therefore, long live the Mobile in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.25.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of education. [[Ask the Government about the situation of education]] [[310-00212/13]] The question is put by Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.26.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Cambray, you haven't been a counselor for a year and you already have two of the great controversies of this government in your possession: the first, the poor management in the case of the little Canet, and the second, an unprecedented educational strike in recent decades. The simple question is: Why don't you listen to the teacher, the families and the rest of the educational community?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.27.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.28.0	So a simple question; the answer will also be simple. We do what we do in the Department of Education is to be at the side of our teachers and at the service of our student. And we take decisions from the dialogue, from the consensus, in order to improve the Catalan education system, with an indestriable educational transformation of equity. And so, that's what we do and that's what we're going to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.29.0	To repeat you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.30.0	Mr. Cambray, you've been called a five-day strike, an unprecedented strike. Look, you were going to be bad in front of the council we already knew; what I didn't expect is that you were going to work so hard to prove to us your incompetence and in such a short time. His first pinitos as councillor consisted in sending a letter to the professorship telling them that they were going to be the new protagonists of the Republican Generalitat. A lot of protagonism and a lot of cartita, but at the time of truth, you don't listen to them, neither to them nor to families. Have you stopped to think about what it means to advance the course start? Look, the teachers have to schedule the classes, organize the center, document themselves about the students, situate the new teachers. And precisely all of this is done in those days when there are no students. A large part of the staff is also temporary and incorporated on 1 September. Do you tell me when you are going to do all these planning tasks? What about the families? Have you thought about the reconciliation of families or the cost overrun, for example, of the dining room? It is that these measures of this kind, Mr Gonzàlez, have multiple consequences, and you have not thought at all. You have made a decision unilaterally, and above that, when the unions have planted, you have ignored them. To go to a negotiation with a closed agreement is not to negotiate is to impose, Mr Cambray. And, look, if the time you devote to ingenuating how to mock the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish would employ it, for example, in improving the conditions of the staff and the needs of the students, I am convinced that we would do much better, because being an Education Advisor is not being an activist by language, it is managing one of the most important departments of this Government. Therefore, I ask you to focus on improving the curriculum, ending the temporality and precariousness of the faculty, adapting the centers, listening, I insist, families and students. Because I say again: no one cares about their ideological crusades; we want the best education for our children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.31.0	To answer the word has the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.32.0	Since it can't be any other way, we respect the right to freedom. We keep talking, we keep talking and we keep listening to everyone. In fact, from the Department of Education, in less than a year, we are responding to many of the historical requests of years ago. For what he does to the public school, a cry from the educational community once commented: "Let's lower the rates. So let's start the way down. Stabilization of seedlings. We started with a thirty-four_per_cent year 2018, and we'll end 2024, with everything we've already set up and calendared, with less than a ten_per_per_cent interinatge. We spend a third... we don't cover for thirds, but we do it on the middle of the day, which is also a long time ago. For what she does to the concert, she also partial prejubilation at sixty-two years. And, therefore, what we do is listen, dialogue and respond with the resources we have, so as to transform the education system fairly. You refer to the calendars. I'll explain. For what he does to the calendar, we have, we have – Department of Education – four reports from the school board that tell us that your holiday is too long and that the course start has to be advanced. With this information and with different reports, what we do is make a decision and talk to everyone to see how we deploy this decision. No one tells us... I insist, huh? No one tells us that this is not a good measure for the student and, above all, that it is not a good measure for the vulnerable student, that it does not have the same access to activities and that, moreover, it will have more days of higher education. It is a very good measure for the reconciliation of families, which we guarantee one hundred and the same hours in September as the rest of the school year. And we have implemented measures so that the course starter on the part of the masters, the preparation, if possible, viable, as is being done in many other territories. And, therefore, what we do is names a_me before what we've done so far. And what we're doing is they'll have more hours of coordination, and this will be a measure, of course, that I benefit from society's joint venture. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.33.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on industrial policy. [[Ask the Government about industrial policy]] [[310-00220/13]] The question is posed by Mr Óscar Ordeig, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.34.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I would like to greet from here the representatives of the workers and the workers of the cement plant in Montcada, which many know. Welcome and many thanks for being here. Counselor, the country's industry needs a coup de timó. Why do we say that? An example of this coup de timó that we need to have in how we managed the Montcada cement plant, which represents a phonenal piece of the Catalan industry. More than a hundred years of history, three hundred workers, strategic for the conjunction of the country's projects; works and infrastructure in Catalonia and the world, as could be their participation in the materials of the Holy Family, the city of Sant Pau or the airport of Rabat, among others. Unfortunately, this industry and the three hundred places of work occupied by it are in danger of a feeling of closure for a mistake in the public presentation made on his day by the Generalitat de Catalunya, not because of the company or the workers. Counselor, the first question we ask you is: why does it cost so much for the government to collect industrial projects at our home? Why did it cost so much, why did it cost so much to listen and pick up the workers? Why have you lost so many months without doing anything or changing your mind about filing an appeal or about the continuity of this very important undertaking? Does he guarantee us that the government will stop blocking and get through this once in a while? Do you guarantee that the more than three hundred workers will replenish their support, as a counselor, and the support of the government's joint? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.35.0	To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.36.0	Thank you, President. And obviously also a greeting to the Lafarge de Montcada business committee. Deputy, what the government does, the Department of Enterprise and Work together with the Department of Climate Action, is to do all the procedures, all the relevant measures, to solve a situation that goes from far away, to solve a situation that, obviously, we want to solve. He solved it in a double sense, obviously. On one side, that environmental regulations are complete, and therefore that there are the demands that they are looking for, and that this allows the continuity of the activity and, therefore, the defense of the places of work. That's what we're committed to. The commitment of the Government of the Generality is to defend the jobs and the key strategic industries for the country and also in the European context. This is what we are doing, and, meanwhile, it means that the activity has continued to function basically thanks to the administered titles that we have enabled, that we have coupled, but also following all the preceptive environmental controls. Therefore, continuity of the activity, defense of the places of work, compromised from an industrial point of view of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.37.0	To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.38.0	Counselor, we celebrate your words, but I don't know if everyone in your government thinks the same thing. We insist: heat up a couple of times and reverse the details of the seventy per cent of industrial policies. It is a matter of timing and reversing the rules that run counter to the Catalan industry and its continuity. And he threw a shot at the management of the Montcada cement plant crisis. Why did they wait until the last day to file the appeal, to have more time to manage this shipper? Cassation appeal, which was finally filed. Why do they want to – or do some think they want to – make an error run by the company or the workers? Therefore, let us hope that this can be easily resolved and that workers are not to be paid or the company can be resolved as soon as possible. And we insist that we take a shot, that we give support to industry, because industry is progress and without industry we will not generate opportunities, not just for our economy, but obviously for the country's occupation, which is what we need. If he does, he'll have us at his side, like most of the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.39.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.40.0	Miri, Congressman, you're asking for a shot. I suggest you point to where you have to point in this sense. The cement industry and all the industries in the country are painted for the eruptions of all supply and supply chains. And, above all, they are patenting in a very critical way for the price of energy. Now the European Union seems to open the door tomorrow, either by decoupling the gas or by limiting the price of this element in the energy pool, in the maximalist market, because states regulate the price of energy. We demand, again, that the Spanish State contain the prices of energy. Because there's the future for us, there's the future for all the industries in the country. We have the future of the new generations. This country wants and needs to be reindustrialised, but it needs the action decided on by the Spanish Government, which is who has the skills in the European context to regulate the energy market and, therefore, to make the companies that today are closing... There are news in the newspapers that explain to us that there are industries in this country that are closing because they cannot take the price of energy. I'm acting like this. If I want a coup, I proposed to the Spanish government that you do it for the benefit of the country's industry joint. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.41.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Centre Penitentiari Obert. [[Ask the Government about Barcelona's Centre Penitentiari Obert]] [[310-00221/13]] The question is posed by Mr Rubén Viñuales, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. What is the government's capture of the Trinitat Vella prison center?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.43.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Mr Viñuales, so continue with the established commitments, which, in fact, are on the march. For one band, we committed ourselves to bidding on the works at the end of the 21st year, and so we did. Right now we're valuing the economic offers that these jobs are, so we're hoping we can start them. The prediction is that year 25 is over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.45.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, well you know that justice is too much often the great oblivion of the Government of the Generality. Perhaps not to understand that investing in justice is to invest precisely in social pau, in protection of democracy and respect for human rights. But in this case, in concrete terms, social needs come together with needs of the same council of Justice. The promise of the lockdown and transfer of Trinitat Vella's prison centre is a directly historical claim. You are aware that the lack of transportation from the prison centre means that hundreds of families live on floors that do not meet the standards of dignity that anyone deserves. The causal link is clear. These floors, owned by the employers, which are supported, cannot be relocated to new floors that are to be built precisely to the current location of the prison center of Trinitat Vella. And they've been fighting for years not to have two barrels in one barrel. Let us also take the opportunity to greet some of the ways that are with us today. Trinitat Vella's prison is a physical and psychological barrier that we were able to visit in person a few days ago and that divides a bar, and also divides the lives of many people. Miri, the Barcelona City Council has done its best. There is an agreement to acquire and transfer free of charge to the Government of Catalonia, free of charges and charges, as well as to occupiers, the two plots located in the Franca Zone with the precise purpose of building the new prison equipment. Thus, it respects the report of the Catalan Agency of Residues of Catalonia and the decontamination that you well know of these lands of the Free Zone, the Barcelona City Council assumes the cost of 8,320,000_euros for this purpose. What we're asking for today, Counselor, is being carried out. We ask compromise and certainly for the comings and comings of Trinitat Vella. We ask that today is mulli. He's donated some of the data. We ask you to formally and officially express these terms in order to resolve at once all this hardship affecting the veins and veins of Trinitat Vella, in concrete terms, but you know well that it affects us all in general. And you know, Counselor, that my group, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia Unites per Avançar, has a unique, clear and unequivocal purpose in politics, which is to improve the lives of Catalans and Catalans. And if he works on this line, as my partner Óscar Ordeig said, he'll find us at his side. Today, I think, is a great opportunity to prove that it is so and, please, don't forget that there are such important things that you can't do politics... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.47.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer, you have the word "Justice Counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Viñuales, indeed, the compromise is, exists, and what better compromise you want, not only by date, but, more than that, by concrete presuppositional parties, by 22, by 23 and by 24. Expected completion date, year 25. I, moreover, with more than 2 million euros to prevent the possible increase of raw materials. Therefore, 36,6 million euros presupposed for this government, thanks also to the effort of the Economy and the finances of the Generality to be able to realize this open center. An open centre that allows us to speak again of prisons in this House, in this Chamber, a priority policy of the Government, because, as we always do, the Department of Justice social policy with capitals. Social policy because we meet the victims of all kinds of crimes, pass through our hands. This is a social policy, because we are responding to that historical reparation, through the General Directorate of Memory and the Democratic Memorial, in order to be able to rescue victims of the repression of the franchise from the 30s to the 80s. And above all social politics in upper case, because we have the Prison Service, a prison service that is in the reinsertion service. I've heard myself say many times. In fact, we did not make the appearance for days, that we had the opportunity to explain that the obsession of the Department of Justice and the Government of Catalonia is to make the rehabilitation possible of the people arrested, to work for the benefit of the entire prison community, to give security to the entire prison community, because we have a system of reference, a model that gives us, in fact, high rates of reintegration. And we have to keep working. Therefore, the open centre allows us to dignify spaces that must be intimately linked to this reinsertion of the persons taken and, in fact, in the field of open centre, because we are decisively betting for alternative penal measures, to reduce the waiting lists, because the courts can agree with them with more guarantees of their application and, therefore, because we have contrasted that, a penalty that has been completed passing through the third degree and passing through the conditionality, the person has many more guarantees of reinsertion than the one that passes from one outside the street. Therefore, the compromise is this and we will continue to work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.49.0	He asked the Government to reply in full on the policies of gifts. [[Ask the Government about gift policies]] [[310-00222/13]] The question is put by Mr David González, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.50.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Madam Counselor, today we lived another eight of historic March, a demonstration of thousands of people in the city of Barcelona, and numerous concentrations spread throughout the Catalan and Spanish territories. A more show of the strength and social priority that the feminist struggle presupposes for our country. Obviously, we can't just stay in this, in a demonstration of strength. All the days of the year we continue to address all the problems of inequality between men and women heretics of the patriarchal system: the wage bracket, masculinized power organs, poor distribution of the work of cures, sexual assaults and masculinistic rapes... And a problem that we are particularly concerned about is the situation of prostituted women, a discrimination that we do not see that we are about to abolish, but that we are arriving at a normalization that is very damaging to us. In this sense, we would like to ask you, Madam Counselor, especially to reverse the life and condition of these prostituted women, what is the government's capture of their feminist policies? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.51.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.52.0	The government's captivating has to do with the maximum guarantee of rights that we can provide to women who find themselves in a prostitution context.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.53.0	To answer the question, Mr. David Gonzalez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.54.0	Thank you, Counselor, but we'll ask you for a little more concrete. We're centering. I say it before the Socialists and I are a party that we are about to abolish prostitution and we think that in this chamber there can be a parliamentary majority enough to eradicate it. Let's take advantage of the opportunity. We are raising a debate that should have been resolved many years ago, but we have come to an unsustainable situation. According to the UN data, Spain is the third country in the world to consume the most prostitution, and it is the first in Europe. In Catalonia, we are territories of sexual tourism and we have a problem with what happens to Jonquera. It may be recalled that the ninety percent of women who engage in prostitution do so under duress and this went further than the figures. We're ahead of a cultural war. Prostitution is rape, and equality has nothing to do with it. We cannot forget that the norm-five percent of people who are prostitutes are women, and the norm-nine percent of people who consume them are men. In short, prostitution is a democratic deficit and we cannot afford how the democratic society continues to violate the rights and freedoms of more than half the population of Catalonia. We demand measures, as the Government of Spain will do in this regard, which punish and persecute pimping, because, as has been said many times, prostitution is not the oldest profession, no, it is the oldest male discrimination in the history of humanity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.55.0	To answer the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.56.0	Since the government we believe prostitution deserves a much more comprehensive approach. It's a complex debate, for the multiple dimensions it has. And they can't just go through police-type measures. They don't serve criminal sanctions for pimping. They already exist. Moreover, since the year 2015, the law of citizen security allows sanctioning clients, but, in practice, we know that sanctions are disproportionately affecting women. This comprehensive approach must allow us to put on the table a series of questions, as I said, for this maximum guarantee of rights. With the current foreign law, there's no way you're defending... [[Greetings.]] Because it's a continuous generation of administrative irregularity that makes it much easier to exploit than you would later report. Precariousness, feminization of the poor... are measures, obviously, actions that need to be developed with great strength, resources so that women don't have this dependence on us, huh? , the combination of women, and which can lead, at a given moment, to enter the realm of prostitution; universal basic income. We are talking about effective policies to combat the feminization of the poor. We're also talking about a masculinity board. It would also be hot to attack the lawsuit, in this case. I mean, if we don't do this whole approach, we just stay very superficially..., and we could be talking about an abolitionism quite etheric or magical; it won't happen if there aren't all these elements behind it. What we are doing, in any case, from the Government of the Generality, is including the trafficking of persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation in the model of approach of sexual rapes, a model that we will present in short, working for prevention, detection and work in the network with the specialized entities that are dedicated to guaranteeing resources and this accompanying, to the women who are in a situation of prostitution and also of trafficking of human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.57.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the guarantee of the right to abhor all women. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of the right to abortion to all women]] [[310-00213/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, we want to begin by making a recognition just to the feminist movement, which yesterday, again, filled the streets and places of the whole country with struggles, with demands, with demands for rights for all women, also for women who are in a context of prostitution, effectively. And what we believe is that institutions are late, that we are not giving the necessary answer and that resources and policies are not being put in place to guarantee these rights. In concrete terms, today we can see many slogans that have to do with the right of women to interrupt their barbarism voluntarily when and as they please. Therefore, counsel, the question is: do you think that now, in Catalonia, you are guaranteeing the right of all the women who live in Catalonia to guarantee where, when and how to interrupt their barbarism if they decide so?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.59.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, advisor of Salut... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's how we planned the question, which was about the interruption...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.60.0	President, we had asked the Councillor for Feminisms, they understand how she was doing, but, well, if we have to answer from the Councillor for Health, then forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.61.0	On the right of interruption of the women's embarrassment has answered the greeting counselor. [[Widow's remorse.]] Come on in, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.62.0	Good morning, President. Member, right to interruption of pregnancy is guaranteed, right to a reliable and evidence-based information is guaranteed, and right to a woman's choice based on her preferences and values and that information is guaranteed. Yes, there is an element – and I have recognized it here, in an inquiry by Congresswoman Estrada – that lacks territorial equity. And from this point on, this is our commitment, the government's commitment, to improve this territorial equity. And we also committed ourselves to what was a long-lasting contraception in those women who had already had a voluntary interruption of pregnancy and so wanted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.63.0	Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.64.0	Thank you, Counselor. In fact, the intention to ask the Councillor of Feminisms is because we believe that, from their department, it is necessary to age, precisely, for the guarantee of all these rights, beyond what is the department that has to put it in practice. In fact, we have received complaints from various organizations and entities that are saying that just some of the tasks being undertaken, protocols and innovations, in the themes of sexual and reproductive rights on the part of their department are not counting on participation and consultation mechanisms with entities that have many years of experience in defending the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy. His department announced, in October, with a drum and dish, that Lleida could already be guaranteed this right, that it had not been possible until then because the majority – not to mention all – of the Arnau de Vilanova – the professionals were declaring conscientious objectors and it was announced a deal with a private clinic – again, an outsourcing – that should allow surgical abortions. The one who denounced the movement, which at that time celebrated Lleida's feminist movement, is that this is not happening, that what they are doing is pharmacological abortions until week fourteen, a practice that is not usual, because what is usual is the pharmacological until week nine and after the instrumental. This makes Lleida's women still have no guarantee that they can choose which is their method of interrupting the embarrassment they want and when they want to do it. And that, counselor, is obstetric rape, and when this is done by the government, it's institutional rape, and these rapes are collected in the law for the eradication of masculinist rapes. So, counselor, what do you think you're doing to make sure that women can choose how, when and where to interrupt your barbarism? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.65.0	To answer the word has the councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.66.0	First of all, honourable Member, the right to salvation is guaranteed by the Health Department and is guaranteed by all government departments and councils, but also mainly by the Health Department. You're doing some damage, you look like you're going to surgery. And from this point of view – from this point of view – what we do need to be clear is that there must be all the information possible in order to choose according to values and preferences. Surgical, in a way, and this isn't just about IVEs, it's always about what the least invasion is possible. And, obviously, a voluntary interruption of surgery is not an intervention that is very risky, but certainly in you. As for example, a perforation or risk synequia. For another song, what is the pharmacological is that it assimilates more to what the physiological process is. And here the woman is the one who has to choose. And Lleida's had surgery, too. There's another important element. It's just that this new protocol isn't a depatx protocol. It is a protocol made with the Catalan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with its president in the front; with the Catalan Association of Carriers; with the Catalan Society of Contraception; that obviously will have to be socialized and more participatory, but it is not – I repeat – a protocol of depatx. Three, the right guarantees. And here we say, too, that we need more territorial equity. And from this point of view, I say to him: Tremp, Puigcerda and His, pharmacological. Lands of the Hebrews, imminent; Althaia, imminent; Lleida, fait; Berga, fait. Therefore, in this sense – in this sense – there has been much more in these last five months or these six months than in the last five years. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.67.0	He asked the Government to answer orally with Ple on the International Day of the Dones. [[Ask the Government about the International Day of Les Dones]] [[310-00217/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marina Bravo, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.68.0	Yesterday, in the institutional act, it was said that the Government bets on an inclusive feminism. Does that also include those who, from liberal positions, defend feminism and full equality between men and women?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.69.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of equality and feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.70.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.71.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Ms. Marina Bravo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.72.0	Good. Women have an increasingly important role in this chamber that is moving towards real equality between men and women. That is why it is a good day to claim how much we have made progress towards equality in Catalonia and Spain as a whole. And I asked him this, precisely, to advise, because it seems to me a real contradiction to try to exclude anyone from the feminist cause, but much more to liberals, because feminism defends something as basic and as liberal as the equality of citizens before the law, and as the recognition of merit as a driving force for progress in society. And one day as today, it is also worth remembering that it was a woman of deeply liberal convictions, Clara Campoamor, who defended women's suffrage in the 1931 Courts. It was his enthusiastic speech that decanted the balance in favor of the women's vote against the opposition of Socialist Victoria Kent. And yesterday was March 8th, International Women's Day, and here it was decided to suspend parliamentary activity. We certainly did not understand that decision, and some criticized us. Here, on the one hand, we give lessons of feminism to the liberals that we work permanently looking for practical solutions to women's problems, and then, on the other hand, they are unable to prevent, for example, that on public television they continue to make sexist jokes. We prefer a liberal feminism with results. We did have activity yesterday, and we recorded, precisely, a proposal for a law on the implementation of forensic evaluation units in gender-based violence courts. It is our way of adding without sectarianism and with results. And as a Liberal MP, as a citizen and as a woman, I hold her hand to continue advancing in equal rights from realism and from reason. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.73.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.74.0	I have to say that I answer it without having just heard the question, but on a personal level, this debate takes me back a long time ago, huh? , with the companies. We're all out of Plaça Catalunya, and those who want to get to Gran Via, great, those who want to go to Diagonal too, and if you still want to go there, there won't be a problem. There's gonna be a part of the path we're going to take together. Feminisms are plural, have different currents and practices, all and every one of them have made very significant contributions, and therefore no one remains, in any case sum. It adds to the ability of the feminists to enclose the target of inequalities and to provide different responses that help us to eradicate patriarchy. Therefore, we have many and many policies in which we are sure to agree, and that we are working from the government, the policies that they have to see with the right to care and co-responsibility. It is clear that the group of parliamentary forces are supporting this public responsibility in the cures; putting the masculinist rapes at the centre of the political agenda and that they are a top political issue; sexual and reproductive rights in their full guarantee of both the rights already existing as the case of abortion, as was now explained by Councillor Argimon, as we are right as menstrual equity. Therefore, all these rights are obvious that we find ourselves there, and that feminism is for everyone. Yesterday the government also celebrated the meeting of the Executive Council, and we presented a plan against the static pressure, one of the most forms in which patriarchy disciplined women: what do we have to eat, as we have to dress, who are the desirable ones and who are considered perfect, right? , threatening self-esteem, always establishing these parameters as we must be. Therefore, this also on the part of the Government to be able to contribute to advancing the full guarantee of the rights of women, and as the institutional campaign says, to make possible the feminist transformation now; not for future generations, but for the women of the present. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.75.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the results to the reindustrialisation tables. [[Ask the Government about the results of the re-industrialization tables]] [[310-00218/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.76.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, it was practically two years ago and the closure of his plant was not announced. The result of the pressure of the workers and after ninety-five days of vacation, the reindustrialization table was created in September of that year. A year and a half later, and after a ball of company names and the plant's definite closure, there is still no definitive proposal for that area and for the workers. Mahle announced the lockdown last November. After many good words here in Parliament, the result of the agreement between the company and the workers, it was agreed a reindustrialization table to find industrial alternatives. This whole table just started walking. Two reindustrialization tables that see two different moments. What value did you make?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.77.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.78.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, in the re-industrialisation processes, you're leaving a general condition, huh? So we say, not to avoid responsibilities; on the contrary, eh? , to demonstrate how complex these processes are. Look, we're always dealing with instrument migration. We have very few tools in this sense, because there is no regulation that I order this type of procedure or because, for example, we do not have the administrative authorization of the employment regulation shippers that we have claimed, and now we have the opportunity to retake, and we do not have it. Therefore, from this migration of women, we face a process, but we do so proactively and assuming, as I said to the principle, our responsibilities for the reindustrialisation of the country. In fact, the great objective, from this point of view, of the Department of Enterprise and Work and, by extension, of the government's joint venture is the transformation of the production model, and, in this sense, industry is a major sector. We've got three months of re-industrialization on the market today, huh? , if they group the different plants of what was before Nissan. Indeed, in the field of Nissan's reindustrialisation, there are proposals. There are clear proposals on the table that are being debated in the framework of the reindustrialisation table, where there was also, as could not otherwise be, the representation of the workers. We move forward at a good pace; it will successfully culminate in this reindustrialisation process, and we guarantee all the jobs that have been affected by Nissan's shutdown. Keep working the re-industrialisation table, just as we keep working in the Mahle area, here with the difficulty, let's say, of a notice with only two_months of antelization, which makes it even more complicated to work in the re-industrialisation process of this company.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.79.0	To answer the question, Mrs. Eulàlia Regant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.80.0	Well, thank you, counselor. I'd add an element. These two companies have in common, like many others in our country, that the parent company is located outside the territory and that in its moment has established subsidiaries in Catalonia to produce vehicles or components with lower labor costs. But it's that, besides, we're talking about a sector, that of automotive, which is highly vulnerable in the face of the systemic crisis we're experiencing. This situation must necessarily involve a rethinking of articulated mobility through a reduction of speed, distance and volume, first, and a transfer of the most polluting media to the least contaminants. And in this, the Generalitat also has a role, and it is responsible for the future and transformation of this industrial sector. And that's why we need to involve more than just reindustrialization tables, plans and pacts that seem to be more widely-promised than effective measures to ensure a quality occupation. Counselor, we need a proposal where the public sector has an active role. Cal production and distribution planning to ensure the transformation we share that is necessary in the industrial sector and in the production model. Therefore, the question is: what measures do they intend to take to avoid towing and moving forward and to ensure industrial sovereignty based on the productive potentialities that this country has, the own productive potentialities, and thus guarantee essential basic benefits for the coming time, systemic crisis and crisis of sub-administrations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.81.0	To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.82.0	Certainly different approaches, but I agree with you, Congresswoman. The reindustrialisation of the country, in which we all have a role to play, is the key to taking on two concepts that Europe today poses on the table and that are essential: strategic autonomy and energy transition. And the automotive sector is a key sector, in this sense. So, what do we do about the government of the generality? Help the transition of this sector, do so through the assumptions of 2022 – EUR 126_million for reindustrialisation–, through a code of practical vouchers– before I say: "We have no tools, we have no iron –..., code of practical vouchers in reindustrialisation processes. I, finally, the most important: the national pact for industry, which has to mark the full route that allows us to reindustrialize definitively... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.83.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of legality in the matter of citizen security]] [[310-00219/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the guarantee of legality in the matter of citizen security. The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.84.0	Yeah. Mr. Counsellor, how do you intend to guarantee legality in matters of citizen security?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.85.0	To answer the word, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.86.0	So as always, from the very beginning of the Department of Interior, guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens and, in particular, of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.87.0	To answer the question, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.88.0	Yeah. Mr. Counsellor, from your office, they don't respect the law, and I'll give you some examples. First, illegal cuts in the Meridiana. They continue to occur illegally repeatedly, seriously harming neighbours and traders. And what do we have as an answer? That the founder of Terra Lliure, Fredi Bentanachs, recognizes that the fines break in Junts' offices and that they do not even reach their homes. We demand an urgent investigation into this, because this is typical of totalitarian rule. Second, citizen security law. The law prohibits illegal demonstrations – the so-called "bite law" – and its adviser urges the police not to dissolve such demonstrations in order to content their members of the CUP, for example, when there is an eviction, that is, not to comply with the law democratically approved by all. Third, arrests. In many cases, you give orders to the mossos not to identify and not to stop the separatist aggressors who, for example, attack VOX members. Fourth, the octopus. Catalonia leads forty_y_five_per_cent of the okupación in Spain. And there are two types of okupas: the one who really needs a home and has no job and has financial difficulties, to help, and the professional delinquent. But for both – for both – what needs to be done is to protect private property and defend the law. And, of course, for those who need it, apply social care measures, when they have no work, on the part of the Administration, and do not demand them from the owners. Fifth, immigration. They refuse to control illegal immigration by identifying it and making it available to the competent authorities for law enforcement and migration flows to be controlled, of course, for our tranquillity and for society to be protected. And traffic. They also create a maritime unit without competence – that's totally auspicious – and, while they lack mossos d'esquadra for the traffic shifts, for example, in Olot. Mr. Elena, an interior adviser has to guarantee citizen security, and this goes through two issues: scrupulous respect for the law, giving the police authority; because, if not, you will end up becoming what I really think you are: a totalitarian regime. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.89.0	To answer the word, the Inner Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.90.0	Okay. As you can imagine, I will not enter this dynamic, because of totalitarian rules, with all sincerity, I have much less experience than you. [[Greetings.]] Here in this Parliament, I have said it, and I have said it on many occasions, we have different models. His model is Orbán's Hungary. His model, indeed... – and Mr. Garriga, his company, says: "Actually, that's it. So look, ours is absolutely contrary: for us security is mediation, it's prevention, it's accompanying the victim; it's also the last resort of the use of force when it's needed. It's all that. And just who practices this type of security conception is who gives the lowest crime and rape indexes. And the countries that are active in aggression, in the hand, in this concept that you have of the security of your countries, that you have as the model..., delinquency, victimization is much and much higher. They're radically different models. Today he said many points that are absolutely false. And it's not true, and I know it. And we don't give these instructions that you say, because his model is always the same: fix a lie and, on that lie, make a speech. I'm not going into this. I'll explain to him what our security model is. I think it's much more effective than what you're planting. I believe that security in our country would be much better if this bitten law is repealed at once – and I place once again the groups that can do so to remove it – because it is a problem precisely to ensure better coexistence and a guarantee of rights and freedoms for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.91.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the decision of the European Parliament to investigate the relationship between the Catalan independence movement and the Vladimir Putin regime in Russia]] [[317-00122/13]] The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.92.0	Yes; thank you very much. How do you appreciate the European Parliament's decision yesterday, by a very large majority, to investigate the relationship between the separatist movement and the regime of Vladimir Putin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.94.0	Thank you very much, President. So I am convinced that if they carry out any investigation, they will see what the reality is, that we have very clearly who are the allies we want in the European Union march, which is our natural march, in which we will develop any political project.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.96.0	Thank you so much. In September 2021, The New York Times, a rotating little suspect of connivance with the People's Party, published a comprehensive report on the continued contacts of leading leaders of the Carles Puigdemont team and the regime of Vladimir Putin. The report was so detailed that it even referred to the presence in Catalonia of the sinister Unit 2915 during the days of the so-called 'democratic tsunami'. I say'sorry' because it relates to such a Russian military intelligence unit with coups d'état and crimes of all kinds. But it has not only been the New York Times: the European Parliament, just yesterday – as I pointed out to you a moment ago – the German intelligence, on many occasions, or Puigdemont's nauseating refusal to vote in favour of aid to Ukraine in the European Parliament itself, all this irrefutable evidence of that relationship with Putin. In that sense, that Mr Oriol Junqueras intends to compare Catalonia with Ukraine would be funny if it were not for the tragic nature of the whole matter before us. You, Mr Aragonès, have lost, in your previous reply, an excellent opportunity to condemn that relationship with the Putin regime. It is of no use for him to then write grandiose articles in favor of democracy and freedom in Ukraine when he lodges in his Government accomplices of the Putin regime. And you can say that those elements are not your party, that they are your partners, but, if you keep them in your government, you too become an accomplice. "This is democracy," they said, "but the reality was very different. From the bet on the Slovenian track, that is, the war, to the collaboration with Putin, it is evident that in the separatist movement there were people, an important part, willing to anything to achieve the independence of Catalonia. You'll know if you want to be part of that with your complicit silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.97.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.98.0	Thank you very much, President. This morning, when I came to Parliament, I was thinking about how you would try to relate the conflict in Ukraine to the political situation in Catalonia. And, truth be told, I've been thinking about options, huh? But this one you just mentioned isn't one of the things I've been through, because you don't have a sense of it – you don't have a sense of it. You say: "You have to condemn a... or just, according to you, start some activities to clarify certain information. Do you want me to condemn my position on the alleged results of an investigation by the European Parliament that has yet to begin? Therefore, you, as the Interior Advisor explained before respect to another parliamentary group, set a _marc, a manipulated _marc, and, from here on, try to get us into this game. We will not enter it; we are defending the external action of the Government of Catalonia aimed at strengthening the role of Catalonia in the world, especially in the area of the European Union, which are our economic partners, our cultural environment and also, obviously, our political partners. We will defend the values of democracy, freedom, justice, equality of opportunity, so we will bet on the very scope of cooperation and development among others. We will do so directly, without intermediaries, because Catalonia, as it was born, must also have its vision of the world, especially in a world where many things are now happening to us every day, on which we also have the opinion and responsibility to protect the interests of Catalonia and to protect the citizens of Catalonia. And we will continue to do so in spite of the fact that you do not like them and try to embolise us, every time a conflict passes to the world..., try to bind us to take away the legitimacy of a political movement, the independence movement, which has all the legitimacy of the world, and which, moreover, I would like to remind you that you have obtained a vast majority of Members and members in the past elections, and that this, as a minimum, should deserve your respect. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.99.0	He asked the President of the General Council to give an oral reply in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the possible contacts between the Catalan independence movement and the regime of Vladimir Putin in Russia]] [[317-00121/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.100.0	Previously, all our support for the brave people of Ukraine. Mr President, yesterday we knew the manoeuvres of the Republican Left in the European Parliament, and of Junts per Catalunya, its partners, to try to prevent the Eurocamera from investigating the relations of separatism with Putin. Fortunately, his maneuvers did not work and the investigation will be carried out. Mr Aragonès, the question is very clear: do you confirm or deny that Catalan separatism has maintained contacts and received money and support from Putin's Russia to finance itself and to promote instability within the European Union?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.101.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.102.0	Thank you very much. I see they've agreed, the right. We'll wait, then, for the third pot, too, to see if it goes the same way. In any case, this government has very clear who its sphere of action is, and therefore... I am responsible for the actions of this government; we have very clear who our allies are, who we want to be the countries and governments with whom we relate. Recently, therefore, it has also been made public that, on the part of this Government, facing the situation of war in Ukraine because of the Russian invasion, where we have held a clear, absolutely clear position, in favor of the independence of Ukraine, in favor, also, of its right to continue existing as a people... And, therefore, here, you do not seek any choice in this sense. We have also announced that in activities in the field of external action that is regularly done with the consulates, so it would stop inviting the Russian consulate. So, from here on out, I can already know what our position of respect is. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.103.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.104.0	Mr President, at this point in time, there has been relations between Catalan separatism and Putin's Russia is something that is unquestionable and it is thrown out by multiple judicial and journalistic investigations. The Russian regime has used Catalan separatism for its benefit and Catalan separatism has used the Russian regime for its benefit. You shut up when fugitive Puigdemont says that from a government he calls "legitimate" you will create a ministry free of foreign affairs to do what you cannot do without getting into legal trouble. Look, I practice politics in accordance with the laws and in the interests of citizens and their freedom, so I am disappointed to comment on the occurrences of a fugitive like Puigdemont, who is saying that he is going to ride in Waterloo councils, legitimate governments or foreign-free ministries for a republic that exists only in the imagination of some. For you, who does play..., instead, you who do play to grant a place in politics for Puigdemont and will visit you and give you dignity that for Ciutadans does not have, you should pronounce yourself on that legitimate government and your foreign ministry and disqualify them. Or do you consider these montages another piece of the Generalitat government's framework abroad? Or is it a tool of separatism to avoid legal problems and democratic controls and to convey the continuity of separatism relations with Putin now that he is challenging the free world? Since the issue is of the utmost importance and is of interest to the Catalans, I announce to you that we are going to seek support for a parliamentary committee of inquiry into your links, of separatism, with Putin and I have no doubt that you will try to block it as you have done in the European Parliament, there without success. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.106.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, it is quite indecent that you intend to link this government to the government of Vladimir Putin. It's pretty indecent. [[Greetings.]] You're talking about journalistic publications... [[Pause.]] You talk about journalistic investigations, look at journalistic investigations, and see what members of this government say. And you'll clearly see what our position is. Clearly, what's our position? And in Catalonia it is represented by its institutions and institutions that also mark our legal order, which has sorted out this Parliament, which is the Parliament, the Government and the Presidency of the Generality. These are the institutions. And who attacks the institutions is not who, because of forced exile, organizes himself as he can to express his voice to the world, but who attacks the institutions is you. Permanently. When you question them, when any of you do not file a complaint, however unfounded it may be, against the Government of Catalonia. And they're already carrying a few. They all fell there – they all fell there. And you say that legality must be respected, so look: the law in force in Catalonia says that those who have been presidents of the Generality have the treatment of "very honorable." Legality in Catalonia says that those who have been presidents of the Generality must also have all the facilities for the exercise of the functions that correspond to it as an expression of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, this should be applied to you, because you do not respect the law emanating from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.107.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.108.0	Always attack it and try it for all the lives, for all the lives that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.109.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.110.0	Thank you. Try to get us to... [[Rialles. The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Widow's remorse. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.111.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the priorities of the Government to address the economic and social impact of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia]] [[317-00123/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Before long, Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Fernández, who does not forget that Putin's best friends are the extreme right and, therefore, his friends of VOX. That's what I'm saying. [[Greetings.]] That said, I wanted to start my intervention, as I think it could not be otherwise, strongly condemning Putin's invasion of Ukraine, obviously, and expressing our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, also with all the people of Russia who are now being retaliated to defend the peace. Catalonia will always be a cobbled country. And now, President. On the 23rd of September, in Comú Podemos, we allowed the approval of the assumptions to Catalonia basically with two objectives: to face the impact of the pandemic, to also prevent the social and economic recovery of the country. Three months later, we find ourselves in a war on Europe, a war that is already striking for what it does to our country's economic and social resources. Therefore, we want to know, from this new scener, who are the priorities of his Government, what is the plan that, beyond the provision of refugees and for their welcome, his Government has thought to deal with this economic and social impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.113.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.114.0	Thank you very much, President. In addition to his words of iniquitous, both in relation to the condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as in the reference of the alliances of some parliamentary groups of this chamber. We're working in different backgrounds. In the first place that is to prepare the whole arrangement for the gathering of refugees coming to Catalonia, I am aware that there is an important part of the recognition of asylum and refuges that is the competence of the Government of the State, but that in the end the housing, education, health, psychological support, work support will correspond to the Government of Catalonia. Secondly, we have also put in the way of operations to carry all the humanitarian aid that we ask to be ordered so that it can arrive well. There is a lot of willingness to help from Catalonia, but we have specialized NGOs, with strong international alliances, specialized to do a job on the land of the highest quality, also for the gathering in transit of refugees. And here I would like to make an alert, especially in the case of minors, which concerns us. We are also working from DGAIA and, therefore, making a call that, for the good will that you have from everyone, we follow, please, what are DGAIA's instructions to respect, so that we can protect the rights of minors. In a conflict they are always the first victims. And thirdly, we are working with the most affected economic sectors. What are we worried about? The rise in energy prices across the economy and the rise in prices of certain raw materials. And secondly, the breakdown of the supply chains, especially in the food field and, therefore, we are working with trade unions, employers, trade chambers, to do a surgical follow-up at first, but it will be a more global abst, especially in the energy and price fields. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.115.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.116.0	Yes, thank you. President, beyond what you have raised, we ask you, basically, three things. The first is meetings. Meetings with social and economic agents, but also with parliamentary groups of this chamber that are part of the opposition and not only of the government. We did not get it with the reform of the financing system, we saw that they did not want to talk too much to stop the educational wave of the week you see, to see if this time we can do it. The second thing, we want... we propose, we ask for direct aid to the economic sectors that are most directly affected. And that went from the store to the tourist, but we also think of the families, how it went, as you said now, also the price of the light. We have a water social good, it would also heat an electric social good. And, above all, that we draw, once and for all, from the public electricity, the public energy of Catalonia. And in the third place, President, they can't afford the impact of war on them forever. I mean, the downstairs ones. And, therefore, those who have the most should, at this time, make a little more fiscal effort. The country, in short, needs to be sure. We carry crises, pandemics, wars and, in order to give this security, the measures that are required and demanded of the government must be courageous, swift and country-like. And for that, we ask him to concert and dialogue with everyone and everyone. And besides, you know that beyond the differences that we have with the government, that there are many, whenever it's about improving people's lives, there are. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.118.0	Thank you, President. Miri, I can count on this meeting. Leave us, however, the time necessary for us to be at a time of greatest uncertainty and to see the different instruments that we can hold to the abst. Therefore, no problem in doing so. One of the things we are most concerned with is inflation that will affect energy deputy ministers, but also what basic benefits are. And, therefore, here we will be very attentive. We can't fix all the other suns either, can we? It will take time for the State and, above all, the European Union to agree on mechanisms. And, therefore, Catalonia's willingness to participate is full. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.119.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures of the Government to deal with the effects of the crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, especially in the page and agri-food sector]] [[317-00125/13]] The question is posed by Mr Dani Cornellà, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.120.0	Good morning. President, what measures are your Government taking to deal with the effects of the crisis, in this case of the past, war, to the different sectors of the country that are not implementing the consequences? And, more concretely, in a strategic sector such as the page and agri-food sector?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.121.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.122.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, as I have commented before, and I now take advantage of the question because it will allow me to extend a little more in the actions that we are doing. There are some more surgical, very short-term actions, which is the follow-up that we are doing from Action to the companies that are most exposed to the Ukrainian and Russian market. Also from the Department of Climate Action especially in the agricultural sector– we have to count that fifty per cent of the cereal that is used for pinso and also for feeding to Catalonia from Ukraine and Russia. I, therefore, help them reorient a part of the purchases. Because, obviously, deputy ministers have been interrupted. But there are some measures that are... these are more surgical, short-term, and that means other small measures, that is, that all the services that are collected from Action, in this sense, for these cases remain, so... they will not have to bear this cost. But, above all, what we're talking about is much broader measures. Here we are very concerned about energy prices, which will affect everyone, all economic sectors and families as well. And here it will be key that it is possible to unravel what is the gas market of the price fixing of the energy market joint. This must be a decision to be taken by the European Union. And so, in this sense, we're pressing for that to happen. The second is that a year ago it set a minimum and a maximum price on the megawatt/hour of minus five hundred euros per hour to three thousand euros per hour. These are the windows that allow the current Spanish regulations. We believe that this has to be adjusted because, obviously, therefore, it would bring us to an absolutely inexhaustible spiral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.123.0	To answer the question, Mr. Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.124.0	Okay. At the length of the acute health crisis, therefore, these past years, as the country we have given ourselves the import of food sovereignty. Also the energy crisis linked to the climate emergency that we are experiencing leads us to a new model where fossil resources and other materials begin to scarce, causing speculation with energy prices. Now with this new crisis, war, let's put in value the products of proximity and already think openly about the need for planning to guarantee sub-administrations, both food and energy. In fact, every new crisis, right? , governments and people look at this sector, that of the page, with the hope that the new situation does not bring us problems at the time of filling the cyst or scalding the island. But it must be clear that the sector of the page has been suffering for many years now from the abandonment of its institutions and its policies. In fact, in the last 20 years, Catalonia has lost more than half the number of farmers and farmers. And this blood goes on. President, as a country, we need to plan the strategic sectors, which are essential to ensure sovereignty: energy and food. We know perfectly well that the production costs of the pagesia have increased alarmingly. If we ever came from a complicated situation, this new war has managed in a few days to destabilize it with new uncontrolled increases in energy prices or basic sub-administrations. And the page, as you know, said enough. What urgent measures does the Government intend to take to ensure the survival of this sector so important to our country? Should we regulate a few minimum prices over production costs to guarantee a minimum income for the page, or should we continue to leave it in the hands of the market? What measures will they take with the country? Should we also start thinking about strategic reserves to guarantee the country's production? We know that they are concerned, but more than worrying about them, they must seek solutions and urgently, therefore, give an answer to this sector in order to guarantee the country's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.125.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.126.0	Thank you very much, President. There are short-term measures, urgent measures, and more structural measures that cannot be implemented in a short time, but need more time. Short-term: basically, as in the case of cereals, energy and sub-administration guarantees. And this has to be done from the Community's point of view, so I think that we need to be very present. The most structural: in the area of energy and food sovereignty, we need to think about the European dimension, because if not, we will not get out of it. And knowing that betting for a model of energy sovereignty, like this government, also means taking on costs, also means taking on costs to locate the production of renewable energies in Catalonia. The landscape will change us. We don't have to speed up what we have to do, but it's just keep doing it and doing it right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.127.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the consequences of taxes and green taxes on the middle class and working class]] [[317-00126/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.128.0	Mr Aragonese, how long are you going to continue to impose green taxes and taxes on the middle and popular classes? And let me make it clear. Putin's only partners and friends are you and the communists, friends of Maduro and both members of the Puebla Group and the Sao Paulo Forum. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.130.0	This government is committed to the energy transition, green taxation, following the criteria and recommendations of the European Union, in which we feel fully represented and we must follow. We will continue to work on this line, working at the same time to ensure the competitiveness of our economy at times as complex as the present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.131.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.132.0	Look, Mr Aragonès, Spain, and therefore Catalonia, is not responsible for pollution levels worldwide. You have to understand. It is also not responsible for what you call the ‘climate emergency, which is nothing more than a euphemism to hide how our sovereignty has been taken away from us and how they ruin the middle and popular classes on the basis of their green taxes. The ones responsible for our energy dependence are you and all the parties present in this chamber, the rulers who for years have made decisions contrary to any kind of professional criterion and whose results are now paying all Catalans. Prices of basic supplies, fired. This is ruin for businesses, self-employed and families. And what do you propose to us now? So exactly the same recipe that has brought us here: shut down nuclear power, block renewables projects and impose new taxes. As the European countries inaugurate and project new reactors and the European Union finally admits that the most sustainable energy is nuclear energy, here you want to shut down or reduce the activity of the few remaining plants, turning us once again into more dependent, weaker and poorer. We must extend the useful life, Mr Aragonès, of the nuclear power plants we have in Catalonia, in Ascó, in Vandellòs, until sixty years, yes, guaranteeing once and for all the investment for their development, maintenance and safety. While everyone is facing and promoting renewable energies as complements, here, blocked because of their CUP partners. While China floods the seas with plastic and the countries of Southeast Asia lead those levels of global pollution, you continue to impose taxes and project new taxes for the middle and working classes. Mr Aragonés, talk to your partners, leader, say it here, choose once and for all: either energy dependence and fiscal expoliation in the name of the new green religion or energy sovereignty and defense of our workers. We have it very clear. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.134.0	Thank you, President. I'm sure if it's up to me to choose, I won't choose, it's up to you. That, obviously. You try to build a fallacy, as always – as always. That is to say, the extreme right, his political tradition has always been based on building up lies and from here trying, therefore, to get us all into this debate. They try to counter the fight against climate change by defending the rights of workers and of popular classes, when it is precisely the most vulnerable people who suffer first the effects of climate change. Because the very ones that are produced from the world that impact on water consumption, that is already produced... We are also in a situation – despite the meteorological situation of these last few days – we are in a risk situation of the same to our country, which has an impact on farmers. Who it impacts is, especially when water prices rise, about the most vulnerable families. Here and to the rest of the world. The main extreme phenomen of climate character, upon whom do they impact? About the most vulnerable, who are the ones who have the most difficulty to rebuild and previously also to protect themselves. You, who now, therefore, speak of green religion... but you who practice is a climate negationism. And what it's about isn't to compete in this world to see who pollutes the most. It's not about turning them around, to the other countries of the world, but it's about moving forward in agreements to achieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions because, in the end, for a lot of you to say that Catalonia is not responsible for the level of contamination on the planet, it's not more so in any case than the proportion that corresponds to it. In the end, we all live on this planet and the effects of climate change involve us all. They involve us all and especially affect the most vulnerable. Therefore, we will not enter this dichotomy. Let's get on with it. Precisely, the country's reindustrialisation will be digital, green and, therefore, it will reach everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.135.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the actions of the Government to respond to the repression of the Spanish State against the independence movement]] [[317-00128/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.136.0	Thank you very much, President. President, members of the government, deputies and deputies, independence suffers a new wave of repression. President, we have an obligation to denounce him in his parliamentary office. Twelve citizens have been detained, from saying so until yesterday, to participate more than two years ago in a protest action to the Jonquera. They showed their rebuff to the sentence against political prisoners and now they are persecuted citizens for exercising their right to protest. Like two-hundred people being investigated in this very same court case. In the same way, last week we knew that about fifty people would have to declare before the Odi Crimes Prosecutor's Office to criticize Twitter for the feeling of twenty-five percent of the castle in the classrooms. They denounced a tax in defense of the Catalan school model and are now being persecuted for exercising the right to freedom of expression. We live in a defective democracy. Neither right to manifestation, nor right to freedom of expression and, of course, still less right to self-determination. It is the democracy made in Spain, the one that leaves it all tied and well bound to protect the Spanish monarchy, the same democracy that allowed to undertake and accuse of terrorism thirteen members of the CDRs without proof, not a single proof, as recognized by this said Spanish National Audience. The general cause against independence does not end and, if so, with mountains, with fictitious investigations, with intelligence reports against President Puigdemont totally non-existent, as recognized by the same European Union. The question is to chase for fear. They want us to shut up, they want us to lower our heads, they want us to resign. So we don't call it, we don't accept the spectre of civil and political rights and we can't normalize repression. In this sense, President, we want to know what actions you think are going to take in order to reverse this situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.138.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, I agree with you in your concern and, obviously, with all the solidarity before the repressive acts that have taken place in Catalonia against the independence movement, a legitimate movement, a movement that represents a majority of Catalonia's citizens, as has been repeatedly seen in the polls, and a movement that has in front of some powers of the State that want to limit it not politically but by criminal means. Therefore, actions corresponding to the field of competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We, before the right of demonstration, before the right to freedom of expression, acquire the greatest democratic compromise. And the major democratic compromise is, before a law bites, that what it does is strengthen this repressive apparatus, apply to it criteria endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court precisely to avoid its application and guarantee the free development of the rights of freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration. These are the performances, an example of what we can do in the field of our competitions. The whole process of reviewing many of the policies in the field of public order also goes in this direction, and at the time of guaranteeing, also, the security of the citizenry. But there are legislative acts that are absolutely necessary. And here, in this sense, there is a measure that we have defended, that we jointly defend in front of the State and that is essential, that is amnesty. Amnesty is absolutely necessary to end this general cause against independence. The rest are measures that are important, but not as important, not as resolute as amnesty, which, moreover, means the recognition that there has been criminal action before a conflict of political nature. Therefore, we will continue to pursue the entire dialogue with the State in defence of the amnesty; we will continue to defend the need for an amnesty in Catalan and international courts as one of the measures to resolve the political conflict with the State, and we will continue to use all the instruments we have in our midst to attack and bring this general cause against independence, to allow the return of exiles and exiles to Catalonia and to make no one else to go into prison for the defense of political ideas such as, unfortunately, has passed to our country. So, here's our commitment. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.139.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to respond orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the transversal measures of the Government to advance in the feminist transformation of society]] [[317-00124/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.140.0	Thank you, President. President, our companies, seas, Germans, girls and friends back yesterday collectively claimed that they are close to them: that normality is fair, without rape or discrimination, that it is feminist. It's not just a matter of giving up the space a ston, one day, to occupy it anecdotically today, as the calendar marks. In this, you can't feel comfortable or recognize anyone. They don't want, we don't want – because the co-responsibility is also ours, of men – anecdotes; we want social paradigm changes. If I speak here today, like the man, in the closing of March 8th and the feminist struggle, it is not to speak for them or for them, in any case; I make it clear that we, the men, have to agree that we are the cause of persistent inequalities and different intensity, yes, but inequality and forms of violence in the head and in the end. We help support a system that discriminates and oppresses patriarchy. We have to give ourselves some land that traps them, that we have laid down and keep ourselves; that their glass floor is our land, and that, as I said, it is our responsibility, without being protagonists, to push the transformation towards a feminist normality. Because they don't see it yet, normality, rapes, chronic dilations, and imbalances in the rights persist. Obstetrics is not an example, and the right to a surgical abortion throughout Catalonia, the whole territory of Catalonia is still not guaranteed. We have heard you explain these days to the councilwoman, and we believe that it is urgent that you can ensure territorial equity. But there's more. Discrimination is multiplied when racism, LGBTI-phobia, age, class or aesthetic pressure intersects; discrimination grows if the wage bracket is not eradicated; discrimination is perpetual with the poor, who all know that they have a woman's face. The wars – which make them – and the refuge also have a gender bias, and we see it bitterly these days. Violence is physical against them because it's them. Fighting against all this goes with us, with men, because we can't be spectators, because it makes us responsible and complicit, because in the vast majority of cases we are men who cause these rapes, all of us. And being allies of resolution is key – allies, yes; allisons, never. President, in the feminist transformation that abandons your government, what transversal measures push to advance towards feminist normality? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, MP, MP, patriarchy and inequality between men and women is not a natural phenomenon, falling from the cell; it is the result of certain social relationships, a certain system of political power and also economic domination. Therefore, as the causes are social, not natural, it is at our hands to change it, and, therefore, it has the full sense that there is a clear feminist compromise from all institutions, obviously also from the Government of Catalonia; a feminist compromise that is not only – and I would say that this alone was the gateway – the creation of the council of Equality and Feminisms. This was the gateway to a whole cross-cutting job that makes the government's joint for transformation into a feminist claus. I would like to give you some examples. In the field of work, the Occupational Service of Catalonia has promoted a set of assistance for the contracting of women over thirty years of age, from training in digital skills to unemployed women, which has reached 28,000 women through the Ada program. Also from the impulse of the presence of women in areas of professional formation, very masculinized, as are all the digital and green economy, and we do so through the program «More talent cat. Also the impulse to the minimum wage of reference to Catalonia. Minimum wage increases have impacted above all precisely because of wage inequality and that the most feminine jobs are those that have less pay because of this political inequality of power, too; so when there is a rise in the minimum wage they benefit more women workers than men. And, therefore, also boost Catalonia's reference minimum wage. The TempsxCures program, which allows, also, taking into account that a good part of the work of cures are assumed by women in the family structure, that there has also been, therefore, this idea of public kangaroo for infants and adolescents from zero to fourteen years. 2022 will be dedicated to 20_million euros, and, therefore, to free time, to end the poverty of time, as the Verge Councillor often reminds us. And in the educational field, begin the gratuity of the zero-three stage. We're also working for the fight against the poor menstrual. Therefore, occupation, conciliation, struggle against inequalities. Yesterday was March 8th, but every day is March 8th; every day there is a department of equality and feminism, but above all the government's joint venture, working for a society where everyone has equal rights and opportunities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.143.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the desirability of attending the conference of autonomous presidents of 13 March in La Palma for the decisions that can be taken to deal with the crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, especially for the Midcat gas pipeline]] [[317-00127/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.144.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, on the 24th of February Russia invaded Ukraine and the world changed. I'm not exaggerating. Measures which seemed inconceivable a few days ago have become inevitable. We have lived weeks that have concentrated decades. It is time to have clear ideas and to know what our place is, clear ideas like that of the high representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell, the català that has a more relevant role in these moments in this crisis. [[Widow's remorse.]] Clear ideas that our place is Europe, because our place is with NATO and that our place is with Ukraine. Catalonia with Ukraine. You found a press article on this day. We agree. It has my support and the support of my group. If Catalonia is with Ukraine, you must take this diumenge to the Conference of Presidents of the Palma. [[Widow's remorse.]] Will it be? Is he going to go there? If Catalonia is with Ukraine, you and your government must support the Midcat pipeline connection. Will you? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.146.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, yes, the world has changed, and Catalonia has a place in this world, too, despite the fact that it has changed, and must have it with all its own eyes. And tea, clearly expressing who is the government's position on this issue and involving us there. We didn't expect them to do our job. We have put ourselves, in accompaniment of refugees, in aid of humane material, and also in expressing all political support to representatives of the people of Ukraine in Barcelona. On the Conference of Presidents of the Palma, it is obvious that there is an exceptional new circumstance, but I repeat the same criteria: if it is to work, to reach agreement, we can be there; if it is only for information that we can cover for the usual press wheels that they are before that, many times, some events of this type, I think that..., truth, I don't know if it's worth the time. When I say concrete agreements, what do I mean? U, coordination of the entire refugee gathering. They cannot go unilaterally on any side, nor on any part of the Government of the State, nor on our part, on this issue. Secondly, support measures in the energy field for all Catalan companies and for Catalan lars. Quiet performances and that also are shared, shared in this sense. Fund– fund– for all expenses that this situation will cause in Catalonia in the housing, education, etc. area. Therefore, if these questions are on the table, I believe that, precisely for the exceptional character, we can value the position of Catalonia again. Regarding the Midcat, which has expressed more doubts so far, the government representative who has expressed more doubts, is the Minister of Economic Transition, Teresa Ribera. He's the one who's expressed more doubts. It is not a question to resolve, the crisis, in short terms – we know perfectly well – but it is a strategic vision and it should be not just for natural gas, but it can also be for net hydrogen. Otherwise, it will be a reversal that will become obsolete in a very short time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.147.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.148.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... has to serve, the Midcat, for gas and hydrogen, and the President of the Government was explained in a recent interview. I'm sorry about the Conference of Presidents, I'm sorry, Mr. Aragones. We're in a situation similar to the one we lived two years ago with the pandemic. Your predecessor didn't lose a conference of presidents, you didn't lose the first one. I'm told that all the rest of the autonomous presidents, that Mr. Urkullu, that Mr. Feijóo, that Mr. Ximo Puig, that Mr. Francina Armengol are not going to work in Palma? [[Widow's remorse.]] Are you telling me they were just taking pictures? Are you telling me there's a tourist going? I ask you for a point of respect, first for this Parliament, first for the government that you preside over and for the conjunction of Catalans. Please, please, go to Palma. I planted the themes I had for the best. And, effectively, we work in coordination, each and every one of their skills to cope with a changing, very changing situation that requires giving the best of ourselves. I hope you do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.149.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.150.0	Thank you very much, President. The respect I also have for the Presidents' Conference is that before deciding whether or not to go, there are working papers and there are proposals for agreement. And that's what needs to be lifted, 'cause if they don't, they just feel a picture. If it is to work to reach agreements that allow us to defend the commitment of Catalonia with global reptes, in this case with the situation in Ukraine, and the defense of the interests of Catalonia, of the citizens and of the enterprises there can be, but we do not go to an empty conference – we do not go to an empty conference – because it is the self-requirement that we pose ourselves as the Government and as institutions of the country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.151.0	After the control session, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 9/1993, of 30 September, of the Cultural Heritage of the Català, for the preservation of emblematic establishments]] [[202-00028/13]] The second item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the proposal for a law amending Law 9/1993, of 30 September, of the Cultural Heritage Català, for the preservation of emblematic establishments. [[Widow's remorse.]] I would ask Members who are absent to do so with diligence and silence, please. [[The remorse of the voice persists. Pause.]] In accordance with Rule 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar called for a single reading before the plenary of this legislative initiative. According to the criteria laid down for the Bureau, a first debate and vote must be taken because the Plenary agrees, if it goes beyond that, to proceed with the single reading procedure. The debate will choose, around the eligible assumption of Article 138.1 of the Rules and the general value of the text, the opportunity, the principles, and the criteria that form the proposal, following the rules of the debate of totality. And in this first debate, according to the later Board of Spokesmen, parliamentary groups will have five minutes each. In the first place I intervened, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.152.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, public to accompany us. The commercial activity, the consumption habits have produced the emergence of all types of trade with very different characteristics both for its content, that is, for the same activity that takes place, as for the continent itself, isn't it? The physical space is developing this activity. And there has been the demand generated by the same society that has made these trades tingle or last ephemeral or long-lasting in time, right? Unfortunately, each time there are more and more establishments that are great global brands and that cause a homogenous image of our trade, and therefore unravel the commercial singularity of our towns and cities. Phenomen such as globalization, speculation, the increase in the price of the logger threaten the continuity of our historical trades, our emblematic trades. Specifically, Article 4 of the Law 18/2017, of August 1, of commerce, services and fire, defines as trade with historical value or emblematic establishment the commercial establishment which has carried out the commercial activity, including that of craftsmanship, for more than a hundred years in a local or indirect same and which has dedicated itself to the sale of handicrafts, traditional or singular, right? and it is concretely with the will to protect this type of establishment and this singularity, therefore, to protect these named "emblemical establishments", which we present this proposal of law which seeks to amend two articles of Law 9/1993, of 30 September, of the Catalan cultural heritage, so as to establish, therefore, the obligation to the holders of rights on the assets of Catalan cultural heritage, to communicate to the administrations the changes of ownership, and so on, that the Administration can act and try to ensure the effective preservation of this type of establishment, both for what it does to its content with its continent. In fact, the law already protects what is the physical part of emblematic establishments. In fact, there is this obligation of conservation, but not so much of the activity that takes place. So it is urgent, therefore, to equip the administrations with tools to be able to take measures that preserve this type of emblematic establishment, right? Because emblematic trade, I think we are all in agreement, that this emblematic trade is an identity factor of our cities and towns, that it is witnesses of our past, that it is cultural heritage also of first level, that it is commerce of proximity, that it contributes to social cohesion, also to environmental sustainability, that generates a more friendly city, a city more for people, no? And a trade that, moreover, is well valued, both for its quality and its singularity, isn't it? Therefore, it is the obligation of the public authorities to preserve and promote the continuity of these emblematic establishments, as I said, both for what it does to its physical space, for what it does to the commercial activity that has developed, and therefore, to activate ad hoc mechanisms that allow its protection, and this is the proposal, and it goes in this sense precisely, right? , that of equipping us with legal mechanisms to power, at least, try. All right, all right, And, in any case, therefore, ask for the vote in favour of its processing. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.153.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, in order to position himself, has, in the first place, the word the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.154.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. From VOX we are absolutely in favour of concrete measures to guarantee our cultural heritage, because it is one of the key elements in preservation, in the configuration of our identity and our history, obviously. Therefore, we will gather all the initiatives that are aimed at protecting all the good, I repeat, all the material and immaterial good that have an objective and consolidated historical value. As we know, and all the Catalans and Members here know, they were able to experience during this year that VOX is in Parliament, that has passed to Parliament, the message of VOX is clear and direct towards the achievement of the common good. Don't change who you're driving to, and don't even care if you're politically incorrect. That is why I want to remind you that we are against the overrun of autonomous rates, because they create inequality between Spanish, delleity, clientelist networks, conflicts of interest, multiply public spending and also multiply regulatory and legislative regulations creating confusion, contradictions and interpretative difficulties for the good government. So, we do not agree to develop, you know, autonomous laws, but as we are extremely scrupulous in respect of the existing legal framework, we will always push our proposals along the established regulatory lines. Well, the proposed law presented to us by the Socialist Group wants to amend two articles, 21 and 71, of the law of Catalan cultural heritage. And they say, according to their editors, that with these modifications will be achieved, therefore, in a definitive way that continues, will ensure the survival of emblematic establishments and other commercial activities. Well, unfortunately, despite this grandiose declaration of intent, these changes that come to debate are a toast to the sun. The better said, it's an attempt to give us cat for hare. Socialists, now when you want to make a change, an architectural change or an activity license, what the owner does is to ask for a prior consultation at the meeting where he informs – the meeting the information – if it is catalogued or catalogued, this emblematic establishment, as well as local interest, or if it is catalogued in the register of cultural heritage, so that the project, in order to obtain the permission of works or the activity license, adjusts to the preservation of the interior, the exterior, the facade and also – also, even though it has not been said here before – its original activity. And now you're trying to sell us, huh? , as great novelty in this law proposal, that all changes are to be communicated, as at least three months before these changes are made and, if not, they will be typified as a crime. Listen, that's what you want to take the number; that's sanctioning to sanction. Allow me to tell you: I saw him lauded. If they're really compromised with the preservation of cultural heritage, they don't smoke, they don't waste our time and legislation with concrete, well-developed, realistic, objective proposals, huh? , stickers, checkers. We believe in the need to protect the exterior and interior architecture of emblematic commercial establishments, as well as their traditional activity, since these traditional, commercial activities have shaped our history, make sense of our peoples, our cities and thus protect our identity. And we have to send help, subsidize these types of trades so that they are not seen working on their disappearance, on their closure, speeding up the administrative processes and also updating the current catalogues. These measures should be a priori, not a posteriori, because then it is very difficult to retrace the course. And finally, by the way, to achieve this, what they must also do is to demand the Councilwoman here, Mrs. Garriga, to complete her commitment to allocate two per cent of GDP to culture and to call her attention to the importance of culture, since at present her presumption, the presumption of the Department of Culture, is the quarter lower than the fourteen that configure the entire Generality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.155.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.156.0	Thank you, President. Well, this is a proposal for law that we will vote in favour, as well as for its single reading procedure, as well as possibly presenting papers during the short parliamentary procedure that will take place today, if effectively, as we hope, processing will take place. We share the general experience of this text of protection of cultural heritage, linked to a traditional mode of trade, that of proximity, that makes bars and that builds community, and that it can preserve from the predatory dynamics of the free market. Now, let us say a few things about the Socialist Party's proposal. First of all, what you are presenting to us, from our point of view, is a very concrete, small and limited detail of what should be a general modification of the law of material property, and what should be the development of a law of protection of immaterial property; all folded, an urgent legislative need to resolve, that the councilwoman says is working and that we urge to do so. We put ourselves there, because we run the risk of squeezing it to pieces and losing coherence and global vision. Because this specific protection of traditional commercial activities that we debate today has to see, effectively, with a concept of culture, which we defend and want to promote, linked to community activity and the preservation of the living landscape, to emotional memory. And these, among others, are concepts that are modern in a law of protection, that do not reverse the law of 93, which is in force. And it is obvious that a law of heritage protection that is forged in the 21st century needs to develop these concepts in an extensive way, essential to give response to the needs of current societies. The protection tools at our disposal do not protect, at these times, many of the movable, immobile or immaterial elements that society currently claims to protect at the local level. And this new dimension that affects the landscapes and the living, emotional and community memory of the places is not present explicitly and sufficiently in the law of 93. This law was innovative at the time, but it's not now. This law that is presented today does not include, but, in its text, these concepts. It is therefore urgent to develop legislation that is inclusive and that integrates all these protections of our cultural landscape and of our cultural memory. For what it does to the PSC, it presents as we have said a legislative initiative that gives answer to very concrete problems, very specific at local level, delimited. We are fully in agreement that it is starting from the bottom, from the problems at a short distance, that it should stop to make laws and promote public policies, but that it should do so, too, from a broader and more global view of the country that encloses diversity of circumstances and that serves in a broader way within the territory and that contains more general aspects. This proposal, which seeks to protect commercial activities from buildings already protected by the fact of being emblematic, could have included the preservation of other activities, such as industrial or agri-food, or might have developed a little more the concept of "emblemetic", in a broader sense and understanding, or, finally, to seek to protect commercial activities that we may consider emblematic, even though it is developing outside of a building that is not or in a building that is not. And finally, we're talking about the protection of proximity trade. We already know that this law belongs to Culture, to the protection of heritage. But you in the talk of motius defend the values of small trade, of this proximity trade that brings life to our barrels and vile, of this trade that is vital for a model of sustainable society and that has many problems to survive, precisely because it is not protected in a neoliberal system, dominated by fierce capitalism that you also maintain, at these times. We can tell you who are the public policies that have led to the end of many municipalities, where the proliferation of large commercial areas has been made much easier for the proper joints that you govern. Changing the development model – also in trade – is also a challenge to protect and promote the proximity and cultural heritage and memory of our barrels and territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.157.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.158.0	Thank you, President. From In Comú We can totally agree on..., as has begun to do from other gatherings like Barcelona, to recognize the emblematic establishments as immaterial assets. The Law 18/2017, of trade, services and fire, defines them, but does not give us a strict definition about the emblematic establishments that allow us to identify them, catalog them and, consequently, protect them so as to give them specific levels of protection. It is a living heritage that needs a rule that determines which activities form part of this definition, that allows different administrations to encourage and, above all, to protect the maintenance of certain activities; some establishments that bring value, that bring identity, that generate community, belonging and social vertebracy, where the people who inhabit it are located, and commercial diversity, also, of course. Now, the proposal to amend Law 9/1993, the cultural heritage, which we are debating today, sets out the need to protect us not only the activity and the material good strict sense, and therefore creates a category of infraction, if it is not communicated beforehand the change of activity. We believe, from the Common Can, that this does not protect or help to a great extent. So we can't be against this little protection action and, in fact, we'll vote for it. But, obviously, it's insufficient. And entering a little bit because we think it is insufficient, we pose in case there are two cases of emblematic trades very different at risk of disappearance: for a band, those trades in which they have the property of the immobile, of the space, and those that are in good standing. For the landlords, I would like to strengthen the work..., or continue, the inspector's task so that they preserve the assets and provide help for their restoration. And in the case of those trades, more than that, what we should do is protect them from the speculation of the price of the logger, which makes its activity unfeasible. There is a need, therefore, for a specific plan and legislation that allows the premises to preserve..., and a strengthened authority can be created for activities that may last, in the event that they pose a risk to conservation, as well as a process of purchasing establishments of special interest to ensure their continuity. This is a concrete question that could be done and that would actually help the emblematic trades. And there are many proposals, on the part of the emblematic institutions themselves. But in Comú We may believe that we must defend the culture and history that represent the emblematic trades and so we must also defend the families that manage for many generations an economic activity that is in danger for the real estate speculation and the flexibility of the generality's trade regulations, which allows any activity to stand in the way of an emblematic trade. We want, therefore, a law that helps us to age for its sustainability and to promote the maximum possible social return of economic activity, starting from the economy of proximity. And here we are talking about the proximity trade, not just thinking about those establishments that we find at a certain physical distance from our habitats, right? , but of those who bring a certain shopping experience, as well as a space of citizenship, community, key to these very dynamic communities. Returning to trade where proximity is not a measure of distance, but of relationship. The object of the change is to empower the material and immaterial heritage of the country's emblematic trades, but as is also laid down in Law 9 of 93, which is totally out of date..., and that an integral reform to protect not only the emblematic trades, but other economic actors and who also collect this community activity. But above all..., and let's remember that, beyond these small modifications – that, well, we doubt that..., let's hope that it has some sort of effect –, we must be able to control them from the Parliament. So let us remember that we will vote in favour of this proposal, find it insufficient and already introduce the papers when it is enough. In any case, small modifications, concrete plans, and let's hope that this can help us move forward in the protection of Catalonia's cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.159.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.160.0	President... Members, Members, Councillors, we find ourselves today with a proposal of law of the Socialist Group that modifies the law of cultural heritage in an aspect that should facilitate one of the purposes of this law, that of protecting the singularities of our trade. In fact, it is a matter of protecting the concept of "historical or emblematic establishment" which was defined in the trade law adopted in 2017, in which we worked together with other groups, where it is said that the commercial establishment has to exercise or have exercised commercial activity, because it is, in some way, defined in this way, for a certain time– a hundred years– and that it has to be dedicated to the sale of traditional or singular artisanal products. Today we find ourselves in all of Catalonia with commercial premises that are already collective memory and material and immaterial heritage of the city to many cities and towns, and that have seen their commercial uses modified, eliminating this singularity or simply feel the fruit of modifications that stretch a lot or lengthen a lot the establishments of their historical and traditional activities, and we believe that, somehow, this proposal of the law could help them. We will vote in favour, give support to this proposal. Yes, obviously, it will produce in this way, after approving this proposal of law, the mandatory communication of any change of activity of an emblematic establishment, but we need to develop tools, and that is true, because it is not only in a communication – it has been said – we need a legal framework where it can be done. We must not be fooled, the lack of detail on how this protection of intangible assets is to be produced can be extended, including... more than "enlargement, preventing the viability of a business". And we need to be aware, and so we want to warn, that today the local administration already has enough problems to be agile at the time of processing business initiatives associated with a locale that many times in these concrete cases are only an evolution or better of the activity that has developed over the years. In fact, communication by end, to which the owner of the establishment is obliged, may include a problem many times. Because we imagine, therefore, that who wants or who ends up shutting down a traditional establishment, a traditional activity is because it is certainly not able or unable to consolidate its project, many times for anomalous situations or sometimes included for a retirement and simply because there is no proper transposition. Therefore, we think we need to be very careful at the time of reconciling the protection of material and immaterial assets and the private initiative so that we do not find ourselves with historic sites that are no longer viable or that have had to be closed. Beyond that – and we also want to make one final reflection –... we believe, at least from our liberal point of view, that many times the legislation we find ourselves in Catalonia is a legislation that can be massive interventionist with commercial initiatives, of course and restoration in all aspects. And we believe that it is necessary to work to reduce a good part of the interbanks that a city finds at the time of opening an activity or making it evolve. For this reason, and a little bit, therefore, at the final stage of the intervention, I wanted to invite this plenary and, in this case, also invite the PSC to work to reduce this pressure many times legislative that we have and these problems and obstacles that our negotiations find in order to be able to pull forward. I, one – and I invite you to do so whenever you want – that you could realize is the modification of the code of consumption that you developed in 2010 and eliminate the linguistic fines to retrench in castle to commercial establishments. I think that once you have the ability to take initiatives to help the trade, this measure, I think it will help you enough, and I think that since you created it, since you are the creators and the ideals, I think it would be a good decision. And I also want to finish, so I invite you to this, because we have found ourselves – and I do want to denounce today before the plenary – with an obstacle, an unacceptable blockade on the part of the Bureau of Parliament and also of the Board of Spokespersons to which we can – and other groups – launch, promote initiatives to propose laws or legislation in this chamber. We wear two months – two months from the beginning..., well, practically one year from the beginning of the legislature, but two months of government – and we haven't been able to present any law in this Parliament yet, and that didn't pass the last legislature. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.161.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.162.0	Thank you, President. Simply to telegraph our compliance to single-read processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.163.0	Thank you very much. So, then, and on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Elsa Artadi's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.164.0	Thank you, President. I'll be a little less telegraphic, which seems to me that the subject deserves it. Good morning to everyone, especially to fellow MPs with whom we share feminist struggle. And also congratulate the entities for yesterday's call, for the work they do every day. We are talking about trade now and we are talking about the emblems, which are an exhibition of our past, an exhibition of what we are now, of our identity and, therefore, is also a way of imposing the singularity of our cities, of our villas in an urban homogenization of the globalized world. And, therefore, it has a major importance if we want to think about a sustainable future, in the very broad sense of the word. In the case of Barcelona, which is the case I know best, 2016 was catalogued 209 emblematic establishments– 209 –; in just five years, the twenty_per_cent or has closed or is about to close. Therefore, today it shows the urgency of the measure we have – also the little success of the Barcelona Assembly in preserving them –, at a time when we have lost, therefore, the Farm Vendrell to the Eixample, the tables games Mallart al Gòtic, the Camisería Pons a Gràcia and so many others who define our city as it is and as we want it to be, but now they have been lost forever. And, therefore, we have this need to put an end to it. What does the Rules of Parliament tell us? So if the natural girl advises it, we can process it for one reading. We understand that there is an urgent need to avoid this miscarriage of our streets, of our trades. And, therefore, we understand that it is justified; also for simplicity, that it is the other element by which the Rules permit it. Because today at the end you come to change an article, which says that changes are to be communicated in the activity, and a_second article that is the consequence of the first, which establishes, therefore, the lack that causes it not to have done it. And this is all the time that at the time it was already protecting what is the physical establishment, which is the botiga, because at the time there was a leadership, which was the Xavier Trias, like the mayor of Barcelona, who pulled this first step forward, but since then nothing had been done, nothing had been done about it. In fact, the current government has tried three years to make a diagnosis of what commercial establishments are like. And today should be a step forward, a step forward meaningful. But the reality is that the text of the amendment that the Socialists are bringing to us today – and other groups have referred to it – does not provide an effective tool. The only thing that is said is that it is communicated, but it is not given a real protection, an operational protection as can be additional protections as they were in their case to BCINs or BCILs. And, therefore, we are voting in favour of it today. We will, of course, allow it to be transmitted, but it is transmitted because it serves, in terms of the forty-eight hours we have to enter documents, to enter them because it serves for something this step and this mechanism is working, because it is really very poor, this step that is done. Why? There is an emblematic trading table at the Assembly where there are groups, where there are groups, where there is the sector, where we have already asked for the May of the year, like Junts per Catalunya in the plenary of Barcelona, which is carrying the normal changes that had been made there, but many of the recommendations that are made in this table are being ignored. Today we would have liked it if we could carry a much more complete job, not simply try to look for a photo and it is already, because the situation is much more complex, it takes many more dimensions, there are implications in the matter of trade, because in the end what we want to do is that the activity is viable. And, therefore, here's a lot of work, the band that can be done from Culture, which correspond to the Department of Enterprise. There is a whole field that affects the law of urban leases, because a lot of the problem has to do with the prices of the logues when they are to be renewed or taxed, and, obviously, as they have already mentioned, with the future law of immaterial assets, which is obviously urgent – the councillor knows this – and we also stand ready to move forward as quickly as possible. The situation is very complex because there are different aspects: from a generational replete, which is not always given, not only in the emblems, but generally in the small trade; the increase in the prices of loguers; changes in both the habits and the needs of consumers; an almost uncompromising competition of large chains. And, therefore, let's hope that we take all these elements into account, that we can actually do a real job and that in a few months or a few years we won't have to repeat the same data, as it is in the case of the city of Barcelona. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.165.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.166.0	President, Councillor, MPs, MPs... The loss of cultural heritage that we have suffered from the country since the escalating crisis of 2007_has left many cities, towns and villages without those people who ruled and without those establishments that formed part of the imaginary collection and the physiognomy of her city. And that's what we know in Barcelona, and we get it firsthand, where in size and impact this proposal for you mainly gets it. In the line of the Member who preceded me, I would like to do, for example, the last emblematic trade that we saw close, the Herbory of the King, to play from the Royal Square, where after 204 years of history last September we saw close his Persian, among other establishments. But, as this debate goes from the far... In fact, it goes from the far it has, and we could fix it: it is the Ple of the Assembly of the generation of the year 2014, where the registrar of the Republican Left, Mr.Jordi Portabella, urged the Assembly of that moment, the Government Trias, to initiate measures to protect the emblematic trades in the city. At that time, 2014, it was Xifrava, it was talking about a total of 272 trades, 272 families. And 2016 was about 228, and in the X-ray recently done for the assembly we're talking about 209. Since then we have been able to see how the seventy-six percent of the emblematic trades have survived, they have resisted, but this does not make us satisfied, as we are speaking that more than six hundred have seen their Persian lower. What they're planting today, the PSC group, is nothing more than, as a result of the experience of these years of protective measures, planting a measure of better, smaller, lowercase. In concrete terms, it is necessary to inform the Administration of a change of a catalogued good so that it can intervene, mediate or, if the case is given, exercise the right of storm and retraction. From Esquerra we will not oppose this proposition of law, because we believe that it walks in the right direction, although the step it takes is surely imperceptible by little that it is. It's short. And that is also why the progress, like the rest of the parliamentary groups that have preceded me, will be putting forward proposals in the line of ensuring as much as possible that these tiny steps that I propose have a real effectiveness. One of the reasons for which these trades are threatened is the change in consumption habits. Another is the city's economic model. And in this sense we also think that a clear bet for a model of mass tourism or a liberalized model of business schedules does not help either the emblems or the city itself. If parts of Barcelona are converted into theme parks, the problem goes much further than the two hundred establishments of the cataleg, so that keeping small examples of emblematic trades in thematic barrels is no use. With this measure you won't have enough. Because demands, commodities, bartering, unfortunately, will not always be able to compete with the deals that in the 21st century are much more lucrative. And that's why it seems important to us to be able to connect the concepts of heritage, material and intangible protection. The problem is much more over there. If conservation and conservation measures are necessary, these are not enough; they call for measures that go further and allow trade to face the challenge with equal conditions than its competitors, or that at least have the resources to fight it. In this sense, we believe that, in addition to focusing today on the continuity of the trading heritage, measures in its preservation should be taken to promote trade and also to invest in competitiveness and digitalisation. This problem, in fact, is not specific to the city of Barcelona. Cities like Paris or Rome have had to act. It is the global phenomenon that the doctor in Geography and professor of the Autonomous University, Francesc Muñoz, incorporates into a process that sees the cities and defines as "urbanization, "urbanization. Therefore, we need to act there, but we need measures that go far beyond what you are planting today. Finally, I would like to do so with the words that Jordi Portabella himself used at the 2014 Barcelona Assembly Plenary. He said: "If we do not keep the emblematic establishments, we can convert ourselves into a city without identity or personality, a town that has no points of reference to either the barrel or the districts. And he adds: "This protection will be instrumental in knowing what the city will look like in the face of its own decades. Well, the issue is relevant because we're not talking about an exclusively trade or heritage issue. We're talking about questions that go a lot further. We talk about history, we talk about economics, we talk about urbanism, we talk about identity. It's uplifting because we're talking about people, citizens and citizens, barcelons and barcelons from yesterday, today and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.167.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the proposal for a law amending Law 9/1993, of 30 September, of the Cultural Heritage Català, for the preservation of emblematic establishments. We understand, in making this vote, that the affirmative votes are in favour of single reading, and the negative votes are against it. The vote begins. The single-reading initiative received 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against, and one person who did not vote. Therefore, given the outcome of the vote, this proposal for law will be dealt with in a single reading before the plenary. The Bureau sets the deadline for the submission of both total and joint items to this March 11th auction, to the middle 12th. [[Procedure for appointing seven members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation]] [[286-00001/13]] Let's move on to the third point of the agenda, the procedure for appointing seven members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. We begin the appointment once we have rejected the report of the Catalan Audiovisual Council on the suitability and capacity of the candidates presented at the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Joints for Catalonia, and the substance of all the mandatory appearances before the Committee of Institutional Affairs on the past March 7th, in response to the third secretary who gives reading of the names of the proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.168.0	The names of the candidates are: Carme Figueras Siñol, Lluís Garriga Paituví, Lluís Noguera and Jordana, Ángels Ponsa Roca, Gemma Ribas Maspoch, Josep Riera and Font i Rosa Romà and Monfà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.169.0	Thank you very much, secretaries. We take the opportunity to welcome the members who will join us at this very moment in plenary. And then, as parliamentary groups have asked to intervene, as was considered at the later Spokesman's Meeting, we opened a five-minute intervention turn for each of the groups. First, there is the word, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.170.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, candidates and candidates, well, today we put to the consideration of the chamber the agreement for the renewal of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. We also arrive years late and hope that this overcoming of this anomaly will give our audiovisual media an opportunity. This is the proposal and this is our commitment: to restore the public service mission of public communication media in Catalonia. And also, a record and a thank you to the members of the outgoing council: Mrs. Llorach, Mr. Antoni Pemán – who are here – and I would ask you to also transfer this record to Mr. Armand de Querol and Mrs. Rita Marzoa. The board of directors is the maximum governing body and administration of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation in the framework of the competitions attributed to it by the CCMA law. This governance and administration organ exists in other communities, in other countries and practically on all public and private televisions. What methods have we used to make this renewal? In the first place, put us in agreement on a document, on a compromise we want to make. A written compromise on the futures of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation. A compromise of plurality, a compromise of non-governmentalization of media and independence, as all the candidates in the hearing of the Commission of Institutional Affairs said. The document, for sure, that we have made public and that has found the support of good part of the sector. Therefore, the method of compromises by writing and broad agreement: two thirds of parliamentary support. I'm asking for the law, the ninety deputies, and I'm sure it'll be a few more. Therefore, we have put on the table this proposal of names, team names, people willing to bring forward this compromise that they make their own, a multidisciplinary team. We saw it in the hearing: journalists of a long trajectory in the private world, the public world, private radios and public radios, press writing, private televisions, public television, and practically all with experience in the local world, on local radios and televisions. Journalism, the creation of contents, corporate communication. Let's honestly think he's a great team, a good team, and let's honestly think that they can bring in the compromise they've acquired by writing. I also take this opportunity to greet you: Mrs. Rosa Romà Monfà, Mrs. Carmel Figueras and Sunol, Mr. Lluís Garriga and Paituví, Mr. Lluís Noguera and Jordana, Ms. Ángels Ponsa and Roca, Ms. Gemma Ribas and Maspoch and Mr. Josep Riera and Font. How are these name propositions in other communities? How's that for Andalusia? How's that for Galicia? How's that in Madrid? How's that for the Balearic Islands? How is this done to BTV, the Barcelona City Council or the Local Television Network? So practically the same: everyone makes their proposals. Here we have a qualified two-thirds majority; other communities do not. We do have it here, but... practically the same. Is there a political force that has once renounced this opportunity to make a proposal? Not one of them. We all make the proposals we have to do and when we can do them. And, of course, it is a method that complements the law: membership and membership that will also be made – and completion, too – in the presidencies and vice-presidencies. That's the proposal. This is our commitment: to restore the public service mission of public communication media to Catalonia. And it is in this sense that we announce our vote in favour of this proposal for seven candidates. Many thanks, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will advise. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.171.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.172.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Governing Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans has already expired for many years. You have been able to renew it at any time; however, you have not wanted to do so. The process of appointing the board of the corporation should be an administrative process, where the positions to be renewed should be relieved by professional persons, professional people in the sector, independent, professionals with a public service vocation. If the renewal of the CCMA were that, you would have renewed the council a long time ago. However, it is not. And that's not because you see in the media a gigantic apparatus of political propaganda that you don't hesitate to use and instrumentize. You see in the corporation a huge placement agency to give work and economic exit to your relatives, partners and dozens of grateful stomachs. That is why they have not reached any agreement, no consensus for renewal. In fact, there has not even been a consensus today. What has happened is a pact in the three main parties of the chamber, a political pact for the distribution of armchairs and high-ranking positions of a propagandistic monster at the service of separatism and progressiveism. Because this is TV3, because this is Catalunya Ràdio; because this is, in general, the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans: a nest of grateful and plugged stomachs at the service of the political ideal of separatist coup and more rancid progressiveism. From VOX we are not only against how the positions of the CCMA Governing Council have been distributed on this occasion: we are not in favour of this renewal or of any renewal. And we are not in favour because our position on this is very clear, and we have repeated it on many occasions and we will repeat it every day: we will close TV3 and Catalunya Radio, we will close the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. [[Some applause.]] Separatists and socialists, the truth is that this pact takes away your faces. There is no desire for regeneration, there is no desire for renewal, for reform, for absolutely nothing; what there is is a distribution of chairs at the expense of the money of all Catalans. Look, after this Monday's hearing we have studied the curricula of the candidates who are going to take office at the new Governing Council of the ‘body', and we have seen that what you have done is insult the intelligence of the Catalans. Because what they have done is to put political commissioners, their political commissioners, in charge of this..., the largest propaganda apparatus financed with public money. The CCMA Governing Council is not going to train experienced, trained professionals. TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, like so far, will continue to train politicians. And it is also that in this case it is deliberately manifest, because the people who have proposed are Carme Figueras, member of the National Council of the PSOE, twenty years councillor, fifteen years deputy, former socialist councillor; Lluís Garriga, the head of the press of the former Communist Party - PSUC - ; Lluís Noguera, who has held positions in the Republican Left Government ; Gemma Ribas, member of the PSC ; Àngels Ponsa, also former councillor of the nefarious Quim Torra, and Josep Riera, who does not know whether he is still sitting in his chair or has sat down at the bottom of the room, the truth is that I do not see him right now – I do not know if he has sat down at the bottom of the room to hide a little... Mr Riera, can you tell us if you are going to vote in favour of his « self-suffe? Will you vote in favour of your new job, paid with the money of all Catalans? Look, socialist and separatist gentlemen, if this is to renew the corporation with professional, independent, non-governmental positions, that God descends and sees it, because this in my house and in that of all is called ‘pasteleo,' it is called ‘nepotism and is called‘endogamy'. So, of course, we're going to vote against it. And we will continue to work to close the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.174.0	Well, thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies. From the People's Unity application, we wanted to start by showing all our support for public media; showing all our support for public media workers and workers, above all against the extreme right and those who want to shut them down and who therefore want to end the plurality and functional function of public communication media for which it does the right to information, which is an absolutely fundamental right. At the same time, we also wanted to denounce that Basque journalist Pablo González has been detained in Poland for more than five days, to do his job, and we also wanted to denounce the censorship that has occurred, both in the European Union and in the Russian Federation, of communication media. Unfortunately, in wars, the first victim is the truth, and what ends up happening is that he ended up trying to censor wrong and right, absolutely unjustifiably. That said, we share the urgent need for corporate renewal. Now, that urgent doesn't plug us into that important thing. The whole sector – the whole sector – asked, in a manifesto, that the renewal exceeded the quotas of parties and that they bet for independent, truthful and quality media: committees of enterprise, professional councils, colleges and personalities, audiovisual producers... Unfortunately, what we have seen is with deputies and deputies in action, some still present here..., we have seen also as ex-consellers, as former press leaders of parties and as people related to political parties will form part of the new council. Astorats, therefore, we see how, far from self-criticizing respects this question, it is closed files, and even the other day we saw, at the committee where we did the selection process, as it was defending as a value. They can't hear you. So we see a potter's office that ends up giving exactly who he wants to lock up and who he wants to discredit these media. And we see that this pottership does not end or begin here: we see that it forms part of a more global agreement, an agreement where there has been a total distribution of falls, to our mind, which has also included, among others, the Greuges Union, and that, as we saw last week, it seems that even the whole direction of the Audiovisual Media Network to the Barcelona City Council, which also seems to have spread out together and the Socialist Party, through an agreement, following with this escalation. In any case, we do not share how this renewal took place, we believe that the opportunity to do so has been lost in another way, to go beyond quotas and to respect the law's hope, and therefore we will not vote in favour of it. It's a shame we can't go in and discuss the actual résumés, the result of how this whole process happened. Moreover, we also want to highlight, respect the project that has been presented, which have presented these three forces, which are especially concerned with concepts such as confluence or organizational restructuring. And we are extremely concerned that he does not love a willingness to retail and privatize public communication media. In any case, and finally, a warning that gathered the manifest of the sector and that unfortunately ended up feeling a prophecy, which says: "We cannot allow public media to be treated as a pasty between the parties, because this discredits them and prevents them from being coordinated and directed by professionals with the will of public service. Unfortunately, a warning that ended up turning into a prophecy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.175.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.176.0	Thank you, President. We find ourselves today at a very early stage because, although it is clear that the law foresees that the Catalonia Audiovisual Council should first be chosen, it is then the Catalonia Audiovisual Council that makes a proposal based on technical and professional criteria in Parliament because it will be the seven people who will go to the governing council of the corporation. Then there is another time for all Members – those who are at the heart of the issue – to be able, through a hearing, to supposedly study and ask people who are present to assess the suitability of these people for the job. But all this is obvious that it was left in a pure pantomime and in a mere journey, because already in the month of December we knew who were so many people who were navigating the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia as they were navigating the corporation. Therefore, all the process that has taken place in this Parliament at the end serves very little to be able to really talk about the suitability of these people for the objective so important that it has ahead of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Of the people who are proposed for the corporation – after we talk about its president – Junts for Catalonia has proposed two people: one ex-computate and ex-computer; another ex-computate, until a very short time ago, and you are taking it to the Corporation Control Commission, from Junts for Catalonia. The Socialist Party of Catalonia has put forward three candidates; it is the one that has touched it in the department, in more than the others, it has a minority of the council; with which, in reality, we suppose they will find again with a corporate council with an independent majority that will continue to do the same things that the Socialist Party has been criticizing a lot in the last few years and this time, so it will have to pass, because it will be part of the agreement that they themselves have signed. Of these three candidates, two have been heads..., are former press leaders of the same Party of Socialists of Catalonia, and one of them has already been a quota to the previous Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia and also held an elected office linked to the Socialist Party of Catalonia. And the Republican Left Charge was also a senior government charge when the Republican Left was in the tripartite government. Therefore, and it has already been mentioned before, one of the great risks and one of the things that was intended to combat law reform for the election of members of the corporation was to extend the partition, to extend the suspension and instrumental use by parties to the governing board of the corporation at the time of governing the model and the contents and application of the corporation's style book. We believe that, with this proposal, this does not only extend, but that it is still and it is noted once more that the parties that form part of this agreement have put forward the interests of the party, that not the interests of the corporation and the public media in Catalonia. The problem is not so much the agreement; it is obvious that they add up, yes – yes – of course they do. The problem is why they have agreed: they have agreed to put in charge of their parties, they have not agreed to renew the corporation and put in professional contrasting solvency, professionalism and independence of the parties ahead. No, they didn't agree on that. It's like, we're so many years behind in corporate renewal, because at the end of the day we've done the same thing, that it's looking for people who have different spaces and who may need to place, and people who are linked to the political party to make sure they have their share of the corporation's board. There will continue to be a majority of people linked to the two government parties the governing council of the corporation; therefore, the independence of this council from the interests of the government is still not guaranteed. And the Socialist Party of Catalonia will remain in opposition as they are here, holding on to everything that can decide the majority and with little or no ability to do anything. That's what's gonna happen. Among other things, you have to decide who is the director of Catalunya Radio and who is the director of TV3, with a contest – yes, with a contest –; with a contest on which you will decide this governing council that we are voting here today. We do not believe that this governing council, that this proposal extends the scope of partisanship. There has already been talk of the manifesto that was promoted by the majority unions, by the corporate committees of the corporation, by the professional councils, where it was precisely asked to escape from this risk, to avoid further partisanship. And we once again have a council of party government, appointed for partisan interests. That will condition all the prestige, will condition the model and all the transformation of the corporation that will come in the next years. A manifesto which, in addition to the support of more than twenty entities, more than 100 professionals, and which we spent here more than twenty appearances feeling that if you please do not do what you are just about to vote today. We would vote against it, of course, it is no surprise, but I think those who have agreed should also reflect if they really did what they had to do to put the interests of the corporation forward and not those of their parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.177.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.178.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we have before a vote that should not have been produced in very different terms or in principle what is expected to be agreed with the agreement that we reached with the political forces of this Parliament in the past Parliament, in principle, we should be voting here for a new Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media that we intended to extend from the political party, from the political party, from the political party, from the political party, from the same form of political action, so that on the other day I was calling, it is not my term but that is a term that is used in political circles, such as the rule of other important political positions in the context of the other day's public administration, but rather a term that is used in political circles, such as the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule in the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the rule of the parliament in the rule of the rule of the parliament that Now, it's really incredible that we're coming to an agreement on this chamber to break up, to depoliticize organs like the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation, and we're here before a..., of the nomination, for example, a case that our opinion is the bloodiest, is the most dramatic, as the case of a deputy who is sitting in this chamber today and who will be a member of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation four days from now. I do not know today whether Mr Riera will have any kind of conflict of interest with the vote, with his self-vote, because it really seems to us, from our parliamentary group, that it is an absolutely messed up thing. The fact that a deputy is now a candidate to be a member of the Board of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. For this reason, we, from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, as we have always fought against partisanship, against the colonization of political parties of public institutions, which is basically what is happening here, have today presented a law proposal to deepen precisely the incompatibility requirements of the condition of member of the Government Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. It is a measure that we believe is essential and that surely a year ago or two years ago we would not have considered as such, we would not have considered it essential, but see the use, the fraud of law that has eaten the parties that have reached this agreement, to this agreement that is absolutely shameful, because it does not conform to the experience of the law. The hope of the law that we approved the conjunction of the forces of this chamber, was precisely to dispartitize. And today, therefore, we have lots of different parties: the Socialist Party's headline, we have deputies from Junts for Catalonia... Go on, I think that the case, I insist, of Mr Riera..., gave to my companion Anna Grau the other day to the appearance that these seven members made for seven places, that it is also very curious, almost remembers the movie Seven new for seven Germans, it is a thing that is measured, an agreement, let us say, for a lot and this lot is what corresponds to each of the parties that arrive at this agreement and is distributed in a clearly partisan way to these places. Well, we present this proposal for law to deepen the requirements necessary to complete a place in this governing council, because we consider that what has been done is basically, therefore, to defraud the hope that pushed the agreement that we reached in the past legislature. In this sense, what we are basically asking is that Article 5 is amended in the following sense. We would say that the compatibility requirements required by this article must be supplemented with an annalisation of at least two years prior to the date of their appointment as members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation; that is, it is not worth one day that you are a member of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. I believe that for anyone who wants integrity, honesty, transparency, the retention of our institutions' accounts, this is an absolute contradiction. There is absolutely no logic to the fact that a Member of Parliament today is a member of the Board of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. As we continue to take sides that the only thing they understand about institutions is as a menu of machinery to address their associates and followers, democracy in Catalonia and in Spain will continue, therefore, being threatened by this form of bad governance. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.179.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.180.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, a few weeks ago we discussed in this same chamber the appointment of the members of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, fruit of a pact as quite questionable between the Socialist Party, Junts and Esquerra Republicana and, today, what we have here is the second part of that pact, which are the appointments of the members of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. And, therefore, I say to you the same thing I said to you in the previous debate: you, with this pact, have lost a golden opportunity to dispartisan the leadership of the Catalan public media, although, in the eyes of the chosen people, I believe that this aspect was never on the table. Here the only thing that prevailed was to place yours and nothing else, without cover. The Socialist Party, "alternatives, as they call themselves, those who promised to come here to stop the abuses of separatism, ally themselves precisely with separatism and contribute to the exchange of chromosomes, placing in this case Ms Gemma Ribas, former director of communication of Presidency during the government of Montilla, Carmel Figueras, who until now was a councilwoman at the ACC, and Luis Garriga, former head of press of the Socialist Party in the City of Barcelona. Come on, clearly, you had an intention of disparting the appointment you see, it is clear. Esquerra Republicana, for its part, has placed Mr. Lluís Noguera and also Mrs. Rosa Romà as president of the corporation and, therefore, with this appointment, Esquerra Republicana ensures control of TV3, while, therefore, Catalunya Ràdio would remain in the hands of Junts. Let us remember all this thanks to the collaboration and the pact in the offices with the Socialist Party, with the "alternatives, those who came here to stop and to stop separatism. It is clear that you want to continue with the partisan use of TV3, a partisan use that, moreover, in recent years, has been double. Not only have you used TV3 to commit all kinds of illegalities, but you have also used it as a propaganda machine of the process and as a speaker from which to explain your project of rupture, because it is evident that the process is not understood without TV3 or your anxieties to control absolutely the slightest resource of all Catalans to continue to divide us. Junts per Catalunya, for her part, appoints MP Pep Riera, who is actually occupying her seat today and who does not know if she will abstain in the vote – she should – and Mrs Àngels Ponsa as vice president, who is also a person known by this chamber for having been a Culture Advisor in the previous government of Torra. Mrs Ponsa, who is also known because she is a very generous and very good person, who told us that she let us speak in the language we wanted in our homes. And in case anyone, who sees faces of stupefaction, does not know what I am referring to, I recommend you to recover the hemeroteca, in statements by Mrs. Ponsa, where you were asked about some comments that had been made by your predecessor, Mrs. Villalonga, about the excessive presence of the Castilian on TV3. Mrs Ponsa told us that she didn't want to say much, that she didn't want to go in, but that, well, that, of course, everyone at home could talk what they wanted. Thank you, thank you for so much generosity and benevolence. Of course, Mrs Ponsa, in our home we speak what we want and here in Parliament too; among other things, because, although you do not like Spanish, it is an official language in Catalonia. Well, I already know that you do not pay much attention to the criticisms of the opposition, but it is not only we who are criticizing, I insist, this shameful pact, but it has also been done by the College of Journalists itself. For example, I quote literally, he said that ‘this has been a political market without any mania and regretted that it has ended up choosing positions of confidence with political experience in municipalities, in the Government or in Parliament. The company committee of the Televisió de Catalunya has also complained, describes the result as disappointing, because the opportunity to disparted the management of the public media has been lost. It also says, the committee, that the marked identification of the new advisors with the parties that have appointed them can reproduce the operating blockade of the companies of the corporation, subject to the external interests of the party. And this has also happened in previous..., in the previous..., just with members of the corporation and, therefore, claimed so much the program contract. The Union of Journalists of Catalonia has also pronounced itself in the same sense, recalling that this agreement, as it obviously takes citizens away from their right to a quality public television. And, ultimately, we had changed the law so that it would be a more open, participatory, transparent process, but in the end it has been done as always. You have preferred opacity to transparency and have preferred negotiation in offices for mere political interests, rather than professionalism and merit competition. Obviously, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.181.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Frenchc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.182.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Núria Llorach, Toni Pemán, thanks for the work you have done and profited – I have already done – to give your thanks publicly and extend it to all outgoing bodies. Today there is no other way to begin this intervention in this Faristol that does not express our solidarity and our support to all Ukrainians who seek refuge or struggle to save their lives or to save the independence of their country; and also all our support to all Russians who are demonstrating against this war. In fact, there may be very complex analyses, but there is one that I like very much, which is that guy who puts TV3 during the information he says: "Russia attacks Ukraine and, therefore, we act accordingly. And precisely today that we endorse the suitability of these seven names proposed to form part of the Board of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, we want to refer to two aspects: one is the process that has brought us here and the other, which interests us most, is the mandate that you have as future advisors. About the process, we have to self-criticize, because it's been late. But things can be late and bad or it can be late and good. And in this case it's done well, because there's a project, there's a program that's been made public and the law asks us for a reinforced majority, and today we're going to have at least a hundred and thirty-five members of this chamber who will be in favor of this renewal, and that's democraticly impeccable. I, about the mandate, we would like to talk about three aspects. In this first intervention we will talk about two: we will talk about journalism and the role of this Parliament. And on the first point, which interests us very much, is what interests us most, which is that of journalism, and it is that above all you have the mandate to protect a model. These days we have heard a lot of talk, and we have praised a lot and how close the work of Lluís Caelles, Célia Cernadas and Manel Alias was to the land, but I, having a certain age, could not help but think that during the war in Bosnia one of the first teams to arrive in Srebrenica after the killing was a TV3 team. We had in Nico Valle in front and a very young Isabel Galí, who was there too. Or, further on, I also witnessed during the war in Kosovo as esteemed Manu Leguineche, when Antoni Arbonès arrived from Catalunya Ràdio, said: "Welcome, master. And, therefore, it is kept with this proud television that did so well its work. Or he also remembered – he explained to us the other day to the committee – in Jordi Regàs, who carried the video player to Afghanistan, and we looked at him as a fantasy giny that sent images live of what was going on there and connected him to the Telenews. Therefore, we have this pride, we have this pride of this television that is national flight, and in any case what we are seeing now in Ukraine is the maintenance of a trajectory, of a way of doing, of a journalism that must be the hallmark of the house. Deia Kapuscinski that to be good journalist in the first place should be good persona. I also told them the other day that when they arrive in that house, what they find there is above all very good people. You will find the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, all its media full of good professionals. Trust him. He escorted them. You know that journalism is a precarious sector and that public media must be a reference for this sector, not just for pay, but also for its professionalism. We don't want TV3 journalists to be screened for their condition, but they're a reference for their condition, because, finally, defending journalism to the corporation will be defending the public service. And we also ask you to do it from a national perspective. To hear us, we want little TV3 and a lot of TV from Catalonia. We want a lot of national radio from Catalonia. We don't want government control – we'll say it as many times as anyone else: we don't want government control – we'll be in front of any government control intent, but we want very good control of this Parliament. And that's why this is the second aspect I wanted to comment on. The Catalan Mitjans Corporation Control Commission must be much more than a monthly meeting. That we have a dialog, that there is a regular information transfer between the different parliamentary groups and this advice that you will form. For a country, public media is one of the best index of democratic quality, and we want it to be as high as possible. We have a public television and radio that are authentic structures of the State. He preserved them with such. And I can't be done... I didn't have it coming, because I know he doesn't like people; besides, he asked me not to, but, Pep, you're an example of determination, of ability to work, of teamwork, of generosity. You're an example of a public server. You'll keep doing it. Please, don't ever stop being like you and doing the work you always do for this country, always for this language, always for the essential democratic principles. Thanks, Pep. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.183.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.184.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, today is an important day, because after a long time, after a long time, we will renew the Board of Governor of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, an essential step to be able to complete the process of renewal and updating that the public media of the country need. We have said this on repeated occasions, but I think it is worth insisting on: globalisation, digitalisation and also the liberalisation of the communications market have captivated the audiovisual reality at world level, and also at catal level. And in this ever-changing environment, the country's public media, born four decades ago, must be able to adapt to the new reality. Demand-driven consumption is gaining every second more land on linear television. The way we relate, the way we consume communication media, is very different from just a few years ago. We just need to analyze our own consumption or that of the people around us. That's why the calia, that there was an urgent need for a new leadership, a new team of multidisciplinary people, as has been said, in order to take on one of the great challenges that we have with the country. We must agree that the country and its citizenship needed it and we cannot wait any longer. And that's why we have to applaud the fact that, finally, we have found the necessary consensus to be able to achieve this renewal in the long run. Because it is worth remembering, despite some speeches that have been felt here today, that more than two thirds of Parliament, in fact, ninety-eight Members and Members of Parliament, we will support the governing council, a very large majority, fruit, as I said, of the consensus, which, as we have already expressed in more than one occasion, also from the Republican Left, we have been pleased that you have been with a wider consensus, but in any case we cannot forget that it is a very majority consensus in this chamber. And before we focus on the new team, we can't even be aggravating the outgoing board's pocket. Therefore, it also serves these words as a recognizance of the work done in a few moments of maximum complexity. Thank you for all the work you've done. Now, however, it is time to look forward, and to make it known that the team of people that will lead Mrs Rosa Romà is a diverse and, as I say, multidisciplinary team, as we were able to prove this dilluns to the hearings that were made to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, and where we were able to know with more detail the résumé of these seven people that we are voting for; a team with a vast and complementary career path that will allow us to last this transformation that, as I said, requires media. From the Republican Left Group, we would like to express our full agreement with the objective that Mrs Rosa Romà proposed to us in her appearance: to re-found the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation in order to make it a large Catalan corporation of contents, public service contents, available throughout all the pants and giving response to the new forms of consumption; a transformation that, as has been said by some, is also very clear that it has to be made from the hand of the staff, the hand of the staff and the professionals who integrate the public media of the country, which are directly responsible, in fact, are the direct leaders who today follow the means of reference, as well as those who integrate the public media of the country, who are directly responsible, in fact, are the direct ones who are the ones who are directly responsible, today, in fact, in fact, following these means of reference, as well as those who are involved in the public media of the country, who are also directly responsible, in fact, directly responsible, in fact, are the direct leaders of the present media, as well as they can be confirmed in the past days – in Russia, in the war, in Russia. And, finally, I wouldn't want to be here either, said Congressman Pérez – that the governing council that we are voting for today is the most equal of the story with four women and three men. Again with a president at the front. The legislative changes that we have made in 2019, therefore, have served not only to expand the majorities that today are necessary to approve this proposal, but also to guarantee parity in the corporate governing body. Celebrate it. It is obvious, therefore, that the new government council has a lot of work to do..., but let's celebrate that the seven people we would designate today can face it by working as a team with the full force of conviction that they will do this very well done job, because the challenge that they have ahead is the same complex, as we say, and exciting, and we are completing with the necessary goals for the country: renewal with a large, prepared team, transformative project and sharing in the governing bodies. I am therefore counting on the Republican Left Group to always work for the benefit of the country's public media, which is ultimately working for the rights of all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.185.0	Well, then, let's move on to the assignment. I suggest that, according to Article 7 of Law 11/2007 of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, this designation requires a majority of two thirds because the candidates were elected – that is to say, ninety votes – and that the vote lasts electronically and secretly also according to Article 101.3 of the Rules. Yes, Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.186.0	Yes, pursuant to Rule 16, as I did in the vote of the members of ACC, I will not participate in this vote or in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.187.0	Thank you very much. So, let's start this joint vote of all the candidates who have been asked before. The vote begins. The candidates have obtained 93 votes in favour, 33 votes against and one person who does not vote for a conflict of interest. Thus, as the required majority has sunk, the seven candidates proposed are appointed as members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Congratulations. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Procedure for appointing the President of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation]] [[286-00001/11]] So let's move now to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the procedure for appointing the president of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Let's start now, then, the designation. And since the previous item on the agenda has already been appointed the seven members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, from which we now have to elect the president of this board of governors for a majority of two thirds, on the proposal, as a minimum, of three parliamentary groups, the announcements, therefore, that the candidate for the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and of Junts for Catalonia is Mrs Rosa Romà and Monfà. And then again, as the parliamentary groups called for intervention, we assigned a three-minute turn of intervention to each parliamentary group at the last Spokesman's Board. First of all, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.188.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me three very quick considerations. I think that disqualifying any of the resumes that we saw a few days ago, in many cases with more than forty years of journalism with capitals, for the fact of having a political compromise, I find it sincerely unfair. Next. The designation process that we are doing now is practically identical to what is being done in other communities, in other corporations, where there are representatives of parliamentary groups that are in this chamber, also at the opposition. And, lastly, the public service, the public media, managed it from the entire public can do it by anyone, effectively, but by someone who has political compromises too. And if I may, above all. Ms. Rosa Romà and Ms. Monfà, a candidate to preside over the governing council, committed herself, before the Committee on Institutional Affairs, to a number of cases to ensure that the standards of agreement with the principles of pluralism, freedom of information, are complied with, if chosen by the body. It committed itself to re-founding the CCMA and restoring this public service mission, and to pulling forward the document signed for the three parliamentary forces that add two thirds of this Parliament. This solemn compromise before this Parliament, before the CAI, before the Committee on Institutional Affairs, for our group, the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, has a very high value. Look, the agreement of the three groups of this chamber is in depth. It's a fundraiser. It's a plea bargain. It is the cornerstone that must lead us to restore normality to public media in the corporation, to have institutions and public media from all over the world. We're not convinced. Just as we are convinced that a good part of the groups that today do not endorse this agreement, that today they do not endorse these candidates, for a time now they will convince us that yes, that this was a good agreement to restore the public service missions that they have both the governing council of the "body as the rest of the councils of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans". Many thanks, Madam President, Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Perez. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.190.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we have put our face on it, we have put our file on it, and we have put political affiliation to the candidates to be part of the new CCMA Governing Council, on the proposal of the pact between the separatists and the « Socialist Party payers ». We failed to comment on the candidate to succeed Mr. Brauli Duart, to succeed, later, Mrs. Núria Llorach. In this case, it will be Esquerra Republicana who occupies the chair of the CCMA presidency, with the imminent appointment of Rosa Romà. Just as the rest of the members proposed by the Socialist Party, by Junts, by Esquerra, Mrs Rosa Romà does not stand out precisely for a curriculum, because, prepared, with an experience, with an academic and professional formation that they endorse... Those have not been the criteria by which she has been elected to..., or will soon be elected to chair the governing council. The real reason Mrs. Romà is going to preside over the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans is her affinity, her closeness, her servitude to the separatist political project of Republican Esquerra. This is the great renewal, with prepared, professional, independent positions that socialists promised in that program. And also, of course, the separatists. These are the great appointments: active deputies, press leaders of their parties, former advisers, even women. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Now, if you'll excuse me, man, don't be shocked, really. If that bothers you, don't do it, propose people a little more disguised. But they do so boldly that in the end... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If you'll allow me, I'll direct myself for a minute to the Catalans on foot, to the Catalans whom you have converted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.191.0	Mr. Tarradas, just a moment, please. I've put up with it. Please respect them for the people who are here under everyone's consideration, because in this Parliament we respect the people for their personal merits, for whom they are professionally trained. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.192.0	All right. Deny it, deny it if you want. Try to shut up, try to get us to give another kind of speech, but in the end we're all going to see that. And, as I was saying, I am going to address the Catalans, whom you have just turned into forced shareholders. In the coming days, in the coming weeks, in the coming months, they will be able to see from their homes, from their televisions, how these pacts have served to make nothing change at all. The Socialist Party presented a plan to reform TV3 where it proposed and promised that Television of Catalonia, that Catalonia Ràdio would be a television where all Catalans could see themselves reflected and feel represented. But in reality – and we will see it, and you will see it from your homes – this is not going to be so. Put TV3 on today, put TV3 on next year, put TV3 on anytime, and they will see how their Tertullians will continue to insult them for feeling Spanish, they will continue to call them racists for suffering the consequences of multiculturalism in their neighborhoods... Put TV3 and they will see how the reform does not solve anything. Put on TV3 and you will see how the only valid proposal is the total and definitive closure of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, and allocate these 300_millions to meet the real needs of Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.193.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.194.0	Well, thank you. MPs, MPs... In order not to reiterate myself – I think we have already discussed it on repeated occasions in committees – before I have already moved, I think, clearly what was the position with regard to this renewal. In any case, remember that we will vote 'no', that we challenge the way it has been done, that we believe that an opportunity has been lost to do the different things. And there were only two questions that the previous people who spoke about. Qualified majority is not consent. This has been said on various occasions –"consensus, "consensus. There was no agreement with the sector, there was no agreement with the majority of Parliament, beyond what the law says. And, for another band, it seems a defense error to us as the value of this reform linking it to the matches. With the least, it's not defense. Sounds like a small favor to us, doing this. That said, and, as I said before, not to repeat myself, to take advantage of the fact that we have here the nine members of the board of governors to carry them which are, to our mind, the main challenges to be addressed by the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. We'll have a chance to talk about it, but in any case, we think it's a priority for Catalan audiovisual communication. We're talking about Catalan Countries, we're talking about connecting all this space on television and radio, and we're talking about reciprocity. This is an urgent matter for us and we need to address the new council. A _second question that seems to us phonental is the public space, the defense of the public radio space. It also seems to us to be a question of speech that needs to be addressed and on which to work. Another issue that also seems to us to address immediately is technological modernization, with all the changes that have taken place over the past few years in the whole field of communication. And another question that also seems to us to be key and that must be addressed is the whole area of difficulties in hiring staff, which often happens to end up internalizing this staff through requests for justice for fraud situations. Linked, however, to the double salary scale and to the precariousness of the outsourcing of many servants, it also seems to us to be a matter of substance. From here, we see two elements that we need to address in a pre-emptive and key way to answer these questions. For one thing, governance renewal. In one sense or another, in any case, it's happened and today it's over. We'll see what's going on. And, for another band, the question of financing. It seems to us absolutely just that it is recovered a financing just for the public media. To remember that, despite the lies, in Catalonia the average is thirty-five euros of expenditure per inhabitant, when the European average is forty-seven. And, above all, recover and put the complicity in the center with the workers and workers of TV3, who are the real force of the projects of the Catalan public media and who can put them in the center as it has not been, we believe, during the last years. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.195.0	Then she has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.196.0	Thank you, President. So, yes, we briefly make the second part of this process that leads to a non-renewal of the corporate governance council because, basically, people will change but they will not change either party sympathies or, surely, the corporate project or model, much so that it has blacked out a document of which we have heard the support of the sector already has. We've been doing a quick search and we're still looking for where there's this support, where there's this support from the sector to these people coming in. I couldn't find him, curiously. We found the support that there was for the manifesto that said that it should not have done what had been done, such as: "There is a great danger that this mechanism that seeks pluralism is distorted and serves for, another time, to place people only with party criteria. This manifesto did have the support of the sector. And just what you say in this manifesto is what hasn't happened. We're going to listen, I'd say more than twenty people who, exactly, were warning of this risk. It didn't happen. We'll have a new president of the corporate board of governors. It's got a lot of lines ahead of it. Among other things, the challenge of ensuring that the audience of Catalonia's public media becomes a different audience, it becomes an audience that reflects the diversity and plurality of Catalan society. An audience we have that may have grown in name, but has lost in diversity. The repte that the majority of the city feels identified with TV3, with Catalonia Radio and escorts them as the public media that they are. That we do not find that both the main political responsibilities of the Government and Parliament when deciding to go to an interview to donate an exclusive or an important topic are going to a private radio instead of going to the public radio in Catalonia, because the audience in Catalonia Radio does not, precisely, inspire that those responsible for this media already learn a public medium to make these news and to give this information. Obviously, the program contract. A program contract that we don't have many years ago and that have been unable to meet the different governments we've had in the past few years to reach an agreement and work on a program contract that guarantees the model and sustainability of the Corporation so it doesn't take so much of the inputs and downloads. We believe that, if there is the strength of the governing parties, it should be possible now that there is a programme contract agreement that guarantees this sustainability. Another challenge is the role TV3 will have in Catalan audiovisual production, we felt it the other day at the delivery of Gaudí Awards. We talk a lot about Catalan cinema, the importance of Catalan cinema, but the very protagonists of Catalan cinema who were awarded the Gaudí Prize said: "But we can't keep up with it alone, we need support, we need resources, and we're not betting enough for Catalan cinema. And we know that TV3 is a phone tool to empower the audiovisual sector in Catalonia. So, there's a lot of reps. We are voting against it. And it's true that we start from a very high level of distrust, because, I insist, an agreement of the ninety-members and deputies is not simply about naming people politically and partisanly like those ninety-members and deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.197.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.198.0	Thank you, President. Well, basically, in this intervention we would reiterate the arguments that we have used in the past intervention with an addition, with a matte that is certainly a wish, a desire, but in practice for us it is important. I believe that Mrs. Rosa Romà's curriculum is, surely, if we objectively analyze it, one of the best that there are among those who are in this range of candidates who 'nsha presented themselves, in short, in this group of people who formed the governing council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Which brings me to a reflection, which is precisely when political parties are not up, when political parties come to agreements that are pornographically sectarian or partyists, what they do many times is, precisely, to assume a last for the same professional prestige of some of the candidates they present. I insist, I say it from the most absolute ambition of objectivity. Obviously, to be objective in the measure that I am subject to will be complicated, but it is true that I believe that Mrs Romà's curriculum is an important curriculum, it is a curriculum that has had responsibilities in enterprises and organisations that have had an important development from the point of view of the communication. And therefore, I believe that his candidacy could, if not, cry out to a certain hope that you may have a development or a grasp on the corporate front different from what your predecessors or their predecessors have had. But, unfortunately, I insist, his name is subsumed between a lot, a pack, to which the parties that sunk this agreement arrive to appoint the members of the Council of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media, and for us this supposes necessarily one, let us say, a maculum between the full of services of the Mrs. Romà. In any case, we want to express a wish from our parliamentary group. We will vote against it because of the way in which this name occurred, and ultimately because of this fraud of law that we spoke of before. A law was used that aimed to departize and depolitize the appointment of the councillors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, and it turns out that what ended up is a name as partisan as ever. In any case, we understand that it will be difficult, but so good Mrs. Romà, this re-foundation that she says she wants to carry out, has as its objective to guarantee and age for respect for pluralism in Catalonia, for respect for pluralism in Catalan society and for the transparency of our public media. That's so good. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.199.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.200.0	Yes, I do it from the point of view, Madam President, because I believe that in my previous speech, the position of our group has already been made clear. We do not like the way this pact has been done, and therefore we do not like the designation that comes out of these negotiations, with opacity, and that even the pro-professionals of the sector have not approved. Therefore, we too will vote against this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.201.0	So then there is the word of Lord Francesc of Dalmases, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.202.0	Thank you, President. Deputys the deputies. Mrs Rosa Romà, you know that you will have our support, we have told the Commission, we have explained it before enough. But today's March 9th. Today, in Miquel Strubell Trueta would be seventy-three years old. And yesterday we attended his funeral, the funeral of a man who esteemed this country, who deeply esteemed the language, and precisely we will make you a task of the language as a humble tribute that we want to do from Juntes per Catalunya to Miquel Strübell and Trueta. [[Greetings.]] And I think perhaps, in order to put what is the paper, too, of the public media in Catalonia, it might remind us of its origin. You will remember that the government of Felipe González wanted an anthropological television, and allowed a television that was to be anthropological, and that was a historic goal that President Pujol made to the government of Felipe González, and that is why we have the television that we have at this time. And what we have is a national television perfectly standardized to any other national television that we want to have in reference, but with one aspect, with added value and also with a very great responsibility. And there's a central, vertebral aspect, which is language. There's no language in the country. There are other national spaces that don't happen. In this country, without language there is no country, and public radio and television have dyed, have and must have an essential role in the preservation and linguistic normalization of catalá. Today we have a low social use, we have problems and we have threats at school. We need as ever a communication space close to Catalonia and to the conjunct of the linguistic domain of the Catalan Countries. At the radio we have a lot of good work done, with television, although we have to lead, we have to lead even more, and we have to know that in the command is still a mass key isolated in relation to the channel and the media that can be followed with another language. And we don't have to invent anything. They have a book that explains how to do this. When there is an expert, when there is an expert, or if there is an expert to talk about a question, we need to know that this expert, primarily, must be someone who speaks in Catalan, and if he does not speak in Catalan and speaks in castle, French or English, we have the simultaneous translation to do so. This is not an imposition, this is a gifted style book that defines and explains our television. And finally, to hold a strong Catalan audiovisual sector, as a strong Catalan corporation. This is also the responsibility of this Parliament, because I have the means to do so. But anyway, the language doesn't have to be an added value, it could be a request. Last week we saw in the Enderrock awards how good was the linguistic salvation of music in Catalonia, and sadly, Gaudí awards have taught us still a lot of work to do, but we also have Carla Simon, with Alcarrás who has taught us the way and know how we can be universal, as we can be global, appreciating everything that defines us. In short, we want the corporate media to be national media, to be modern media, to be xxi-second media, but to have the same ambition and the same determination that they had when they got out on September 10, 1983. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.203.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.204.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise. I would like to take advantage of this intervention to thank all the members of the new governing council, and especially Mrs. Romà, for taking on the challenge they face. As I said in the previous intervention, a capital repte, a stimulant repte, and we want to thank them to face it and assume it. We had the opportunity to learn more about the different curricula, as well as the curriculum of Mrs. Romà, from which I would like to highlight some skills and experiences that make us think that her professional profile fits perfectly with the assumption of the presidency of the Catalan media corporation. In her professional career of more than twenty years of experience, Mrs. Romà has promoted numerous transformation projects, also in times of so much complexity as the pandemic that has been a major challenge for our society for the past two years. We have to say to the ladies of the ultrathreat that we are not women for our marriage relationships, we are women for whom we are, and there are deputies in this chamber who don't know who they are. [[Greetings.]] And speaking of reptes, and speaking of résumé, we know that you are extensively experienced in taking on these reptes. Just remember that you have been Director of Innovation and Citizenship of CatHealth during the toughest health crisis of the past few years, driving successful applications that we all know perfectly, such as My Greeting or Stop Covid, and also generating the emotional management platform. as to give out to the emergence of emotional salvation that we are also living, as well as the portals that allowed us to manage contacts by covid-19 and mass vaccination, as they are contactcovid. as well as vaccinecovidhealth. cat, plataforms that are synonymous with efficiency and good management. Its trajectory, therefore, makes it manifest that it is a brave woman, who does not frighten the reptes nor the complexity, and we are convinced that it will be able to face the re-founding of the country's public media, with a long look, and will be able to do so by putting into value the work done so far, which is very, very much, working from the staff's hand and feeling able to reach the necessary consensus in order to be able to finish the task that is being taken today. From the Republican Left Group, we want to take advantage to reiterate our commitment to public media, to its professionals, and also to make use of it to make us available as much to Mrs. Romà, as to all the governing council, to make this transformation. There are many things about us: our way of looking at and explaining the world, the creation of references and contents for all the states that guarantee the social use of Catalan language, the innovation in the offer of contents and the impulse of an industry that has a volume of business of up to 2,000_million euros per year and that gives work to fourteen_ thousand people. We want them, we want them, lots of luck and lots of uncertainty. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.205.0	So after the interventions of the parliamentary groups, let's move on to the designation. According to Article 7 of Law 11/2007, of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, I recall again that the president of the council is elected by the Parliament for a majority of two thirds, equivalent to ninety votes. Therefore, we shall now proceed to the vote. (Pause.) If Members sit down... we will proceed to the vote, which will be electronic and secret, according to Rule 101.3. The vote begins. The candidate proposed as president of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation has obtained 93 votes in favour, 33 votes against and one person who does not vote. Therefore, given that the required majority has been established, Ms. Rosa Romà and Monfà is appointed as President of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Congratulations. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Question to the Government on the situation of the Administration of Justice]] [[300-00125/13]] Let us move on to the fifth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the situation of the Administration of Justice, presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.206.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, today our parliamentary group presents this question with the will to put itself at the forefront of Catalonia's recovery, as we are doing throughout the parliamentary term, and as it could not otherwise be, also in the field of justice. We all know that the foundations of society are the family, justice, health, education and security; and in Catalonia we are all suffering a constant degradation of all these foundations, the fruit of the most absolute neglect on the part of the successive governments of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Today, the diagnosis of justice in Catalonia is worrying: we have a congested, paralyzed justice with an index of litigation above other autonomous communities. I'm going to give you some data: the number of cases being processed. In Catalonia, more than half a million cases in processing in 2020; processing matters exceeded 540,000 cases, 11.29_per cent more than in 2019, despite the pandemic. The courts are saturated; it is not possible to deal with all the matters they enter, resulting in an accumulation of work that stifles justice officials. The case congestion rate in 2020, which was 1.65 in Catalonia above the national average, and which, therefore, assumes that for each case that is resolved almost two new ones come in. The workload of the courts, which in Catalonia is alarmingly above the modules of the General Council of the Judiciary. The courts of first instance in Catalonia, for example, are 125_per_cent of the module– that is a_media, because in Tarragona they are between 200 and 300_per_cent– or the commercial courts, which exceed 400_per_cent of the module, that is, that the workload is four times higher than that recommended by the General Council of the Judiciary. And trade justice, Mrs Ciuró..., trade justice is going to get worse, because congestion is going to be noticed in 2021, in which there have been 1,430 companies that submitted tender from creditors in Catalonia, with an increase of forty_and_dos_per_cent compared to the previous year and ten points above – ten points above – the national average. Mrs Ciuro, I do not know if you know or have wondered about the causes of this dramatic situation in the Catalan courts. As a counselor, I should have done so, but, judging by the budgets your department submitted in 2022, I have serious doubts. The Department of Justice is the penultimate increase in spending, with a small increase of 4.1_per_cent over the previous budget. Justice, of course, is not a priority for the Generalitat of Catalonia, and it is still another year the poor sister of the Generalitat's budgets. But don't worry, because I'm going to remind you why we have such a poor situation in Catalonia: the three main specific problems facing the Catalonian Justice Administration go through the following axes. First, because of the massive flight of judges and lawyers from the Administration of Justice, which constitutes a veritable exodus of Bible magnitudes and is leading the courts to a limit of precariousness. This situation has been taking place in Catalonia for the past 20 years, but it has been radically aggravated since the October 17 coup d'état. Justice in Catalonia has entered the ICU because of its irresponsible policies. Look, in 2017, the year of the illegal referendum, the year of the unilateral declaration of independence, twenty-one judges went to all run; in 2018, when the Supreme Court tried the leaders of the process to set foot in dust forty_and_eight judges. In 2019, after the sentence the trial was marked thirty-two. In 2020 it was thirty-seven. And in 2021 the Catalan judicial plant has had a deficit of judges and magistrates of sixty-four, the highest figure since there have been records in the last ten years. The conclusion is clear: Catalonia is the region of Spain where the most judicial vacancies occur; Catalonia emptied, also of judges, which you have expelled from our land. And we're going to ask ourselves, and we're going to ask ourselves, "Why?" Why have we come to this alarming situation? And the answer is clear: firstly, by the permanent challenge to the rule of law and democracy by the Government of the Generalitat, and by a Justice Adviser who talks about "repression of judges, as if judges were enemies and put their judicial role at the service of political interests. Do you know how offensive that is for judges and magistrates who exercise their functions within our autonomous community? The harassment and the targeting of judges, with names and surnames, seriously affecting not only their people but also their families, for example, Judge Llarena, the late Judge Ramírez Suñer, or, more recently, Judge María Eugenia Alegret, who has been brutally harassed for ordering the arrest of Mr Josep Costa. These are just some of the most recent examples. And above all, the lack of respect and constant contempt for judicial decisions by those who should be an example in their implementation. Without going further, the recent sentence that establishes a minimum of twenty-five percent of the Spanish in the teaching that you have called publicly and repeatedly to disobey. Mrs. Ciuro, what are you going to do to reverse this painful situation? What steps will you take to avoid this massive flight of Judges, to solve this serious problem, to make the rooting of judges in our community more attractive? Secondly, a major deficit in judicial infrastructure. Madam Counsellor, new courts are lacking and the existing judicial buildings, creation and maintenance are lacking. The department repeatedly rejects the recommendations of the Governing Board of the High Court of Justice, which in its memory of 2020 already indicated the need for a plan for the establishment of judicial bodies. By 2021, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia established very clear needs regarding the courts, and proposed in particular the creation of thirty courts in very specific places, as well as the creation of eighteen places of judges and judges in the hearings and in the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. Of all this, what have you done? We have not seen any government agreement to deal with this situation, nor have you put forward any proposal to resolve this issue to the Government of the nation, for example, at the last Sectoral Justice Conference on 3 December. The High Court of Justice is the one who knows the situation, is identifying the problems, is pointing out where the judicial priorities are and you are ignoring them. Commissioner, do you have any proposals, any plans to set up new judicial bodies in line with the recommendations of the Catalan High Court of Justice? If you have it, tell us what it is, what the road map is. What is the concrete timing. Because the situation is absolutely urgent, not only as regards judges but also as regards judges. And, third, the lack of implementation of the new judicial office in numerous parties in Catalonia. The new judicial office, as you know, is a crucial and unreplaceable goal. A new organization of an instrumental nature that serves to support the activity of the judges, the discharge of tasks of procedure and management and allows them to focus on their jurisdictional function of judging and enforcing the court as ordered by the Constitution. Its deployment is vital and even more so with the new law of organizational efficiency that is being drafted by the Government of Spain, where it becomes a fundamental pillar of justice of the twenty-first century together with the courts of instance and municipal offices. The new judicial office was created in 2009 more than thirteen years ago, and to date it is only present in twenty-four of the forty-nine judicial parties in Catalonia, and this is a sole and exclusive responsibility of the Generalitat in the exercise of the functions of the competences it has transferred. This year 2022 the Judicial Office of Igualada has been created and the one of Mollet, in June, and that of Hospitalet of Llobregat at the end of the year – according to its forecast, we will see later. So we would be talking about twenty-six judicial offices, twenty-six judicial parties of forty-nine. What implementation schedule does it have in mind beyond creating three a year? Because at the rate you're going, it's going to take eight years to do what you already had to be done. Mrs Ciuró, in short, do you know why there has been all this savage accumulation of judicial matters, this massive flight of judges, this lack of judicial infrastructure, this poor implementation of the judicial office in Catalonia? For it has a very clear cause, that it is the successive separatist governments of the Generalitat of Catalonia, that have not prioritized justice and the common good in favour of absolutely sectarian policies, that have wasted public resources, for example by allocating in the budgets of 2022, 30_million in institutional advertising or 5_million to its evil so-called democratic memory, and that they carry out a genuine linguistic imposition that has led in a discriminatory and unfair way to agree, for example, the payment of a more than twenty_euro to the lawyers of the office shift to write their writings in Catalan, even sometimes against the procedural interests of their clients, who do not understand it. And, look, this isn't the fault of ex officio lawyers, because ex officio lawyers do what they can to survive and earn a decent living. But it is a political decision of your department that violates freedom and which, of course, needs to be brought to an end as soon as possible. And, look, let me finish with an image, with the image of justice. The image of a woman with her eyes blindfolded in a sign of impartiality, who carries in one hand the balance, the balance she assumes or represents the equality with which justice treats everyone, and in another she carries a sword, which is the sword, the force with which she intends to enforce her decisions. But many people forget that this woman treads the head of a snake that represents evil; evil, which in Catalonia comes to mean the will of politicians like you who want to politicize justice in order to obtain favor. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.207.0	Té ara la parula la consellera Lourdes Ciuro, consellera de Justicia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.208.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Well, they don't know, you know, when you push the Faristol, when you don't add up to look for better justice, or how you can diagnose who their faults are, which are many, and what they do is, therefore, "destroy or create a relationship that is absolutely fit with a shoemaker, as I will try to prove throughout my intervention. In any case, and move forward, that which is in "constant degradation" is democracy in the Spanish State, which is..., it is a defective democracy, said for the Journal The Economist does not do for days. But with what I would like to enter into matter, which is really what matters, and not to demagogically or say things that are not true, to tell them that from the Department of Justice we are compromised with a clear job, with a job that is compromised, with not only being – as if you look or as if you said – a service provider; we want to put a public justice service in the service of the citizenry, because we want a justice service – and you have heard me say it, surely – that it is effective, that it is agile and that it is proper. But we also want you to promote mediation and alternative dispute resolution procedures. Or we also want it to be possible to lend in català and that, moreover, it has the Catalan civil right as one of the elements of constant expression in the salts of the civil, because they are a reflection of our way of doing, of our culture and of our society. Therefore, among..., in order to achieve these objectives that we have set ourselves since the department, what we want to do..., and allow us to begin, as you thought, for the new judicial office. That's right, we've created the new judicial office in Equalada. Enguany didn't see it coming between five and six. It's not three. Look at the dice. For another band, these judicial offices, which want to implement a new model of organization, what they also do is advance in the modernization of justice. We believe that they are centralized, that they carry out more specialized tasks, that we train professionals so that they can carry out these tasks in a way, so... in preparation. And, besides, it doesn't change, as it can't, any function of chief judge or magistrate, but it's simply that it's about improving the organization and improving its efficiency. Do we rotate the new court office? Pivot in the offices of attendance to the city, offices formed by professionals that must be the maximum possible formats, with the maximum possible aptitudes, as for example with functions that are dedicated in these offices..., to the different judicial offices. And I want to remember and re-emphasize the office of the Bishop of Empordà, who held an award, the office of attention to the city, for the delivery and compromise of its professionals. But because they need a very important function of being implemented through the judicial authorities, the people who must also help us to effectively implement these judicial offices. Here we are working with the secretary of government and also with the secretary coordinators of all demarcations to improve this implementation. Because we have to reduce the use of the paper – this is the vocation – because we have to facilitate the interconnection between different judicial agents; we have to facilitate the information, or also provide documents that already consist of other administrations in Catalonia, and therefore not the citizen who has to bring them. We need a commitment from the whole family that forms the Administration of Justice, because, I remember, since the Department of Justice we are investing 30, 31_millions a year in digitalization, which more than 42_millions_i_mig who will be selling us the next generation fund's own three years will make a total of more than 90_millions of euros for the implementation of modernization to justice. What cannot be is that today there is still little reduction of the paper; yet, that it is obliged, apart from the interposition of the demand, to carry copies in paper to the jutjats. We are investing public resources to make justice effective and agile. Therefore, we need to improve the coordination systems of this function of the judicial offices, and that is why we are working with the secretary of government and with the coordinating secretaries to keep them all in the same sense for the benefit of the efficiency of the system. That is why we will also create a committee to coordinate and follow up the judicial office to see how the implementation of digitization went to all judicial offices in the country, to assess how this implementation works and to help in those resistances that may exist or difficulties that we can detect. For another band, judges and prosecutors, very important – very important. And you said so. The one who passes, that I recommend that you update the speech or, in any case, that you do not advertise. The judges and prosecutors in Catalonia..., it is true, we are an autonomous community, today, but it has more tradition to have a business vocation than to oppose the judge and the prosecutor. And here we have a rep, because the fact that there are no judges and prosecutors means that there are excessive delays in the courts. That means heartening in the proceedings. Therefore, from the Catalan administration, we must make an effort to awaken these vocations of judges and prosecutors to Catalonia. That is why – you know – we have created scholarships that will be implemented from this September onwards, in 150,000_euros, but that we have the vocation to allocate to it 600,000_euros per year in order to be able to give the minimum interprofessional salary to those people who, with a good academic expedient, can do..., tend to oppose; therefore, to democratize also access to justice. But it's that more than that, it's not really people you say, that you create a relationship, and from here on in, it's the data that looks better. I'm asking for rigor, because it's... For example, an agreement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, ratified by the General Council of the Judiciary, which, as everyone knows, are first-hour independenceists, who say that power..., the fact that the Marxist judges and prosecutors of Catalonia are there is, first, because..., they believe that it would be a wage complement, that this has been going on for many years, but that it is true that there is a low tradition of opponents in Catalonia. They recognize my own TSJ and the board. Also for the high cost of living of Catalonia. Or the fact that there's a civil right that's close to your own languages, that's your own language. The same chapter of the Judicial School's studies ensures – ensures – that the political context and the process do not influence the judgments at the time of sorting intended or at the time of asking for the most forward transfer. I admit to the director that they have, perhaps, been harmed, but by the only fact that they spend these two years of training in Catalonia they pass them. Unlike you, they should be ashamed of you, because you are Catalans and these harms come to them to tell you lies. Therefore, they are not helping the agility of justice [[applause]] With his affidavits. Talk to the headmistress, who has it, for example, at the Judicial School or with Mr Barrientos. Therefore, I said, these measures of awakening vocations of judges and prosecutors. Just as it is also the fact that you want to do something about it, the fact that you can do it in Catalan. And that's not a right that's not important. It is also recognized by Mr Barrientos, who requested, at the last delivery of court proceedings, that he recognize and respect the linguistic rights of the citizens involved in the proceedings. And from this perspective that we will encourage. We will encourage the use of català as a right to effective judicial protection, because those who want to do justice in català and those who want to do justice in català can do so, just as today can do in castle. And this happens to involve us, to make an effort, to allow those people who have the easiest language in català to get justice in català, in their language, which allows them a better guarantee of the rights. Because, as I repeat, we are focusing on the defence of fundamental rights and effective judicial protection. That goes two ways. For an internal review of all the reality within the Department of Justice and also the Administration of Justice in concrete terms; what is the linguistic landscape that is there, what amount of courses and training we have to give for the Catalan language and the legal language designed for the staff of the Department of Justice and all the justice operators in the courts, and also to guarantee the linguistic rights of the administration. And also from an external point of view we have to see, and we are analysing, in fact, how many elements can be made available to legal operators so that they can act in català. This is done by keeping up-to-date, up-to-date documents, with legal language in Catalan, which also allows for correction of texts, which allows there to be a peace of mind of a good use of language and legal techniques also in Catalan. The language option of e-Justice. cat, you agree with CICAC to be able to help them in the work that already promote Catalan language to jutjat, or, for example, with the Compendium. How much. That is to say, a lot of work for the benefit of the right to effective judicial protection to make the administration know that we are prepared to do justice in catalá, to ask the lawyer, to demand it from the courts that they dictate in catalá, because we only look at this set_per_cent in catalá that comes out of sentences, but we don't look at what is the name of documents that come into catalá. Therefore, as long as the council does not want it to be a compulsory requisition, when the seventy_per_cent practically of the citizenry, after the inquiry of the CEO, considers that it must be a compulsory requisition the knowledge of the català – the council said: "It does not encourage it – we must do it in the opposite. Therefore – I ended up because time was running out – the compromise with pro-justice, agile and modern exists, out of demagogies, and I recommend that to debate from this Faristol for the benefit of justice it is clear what it is to say for its political formation, which, curiously, increase support when the democratic quality of the Spanish State falls. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.209.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.210.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Ciuro, you have not answered many of the questions I asked you in this inquiry; you have not told me what you are going to do to stop that diaspora of judges, which you say is not related to the process and I say to you – because I have lived it from within, for thirteen years – that here you have gone to tact because of the separatist process. [[Some applause.]] Look, I have to tell you that you have told me how you are going to encourage the vocations of Catalan judges, which seems very good to me, but you have not told me anything about what you are going to do to stop that flight of judges, even Catalan judges, which is that I have seen with my eyes, even Catalan judges, from here, who have left because they do not support their separatist policies. I therefore reaffirm that, following her intervention, there is no will on the part of the Generalitat to resolve the serious situation facing the justice system, which is suffered by the professionals, the legal operators involved in the judicial field: judges, judges, lawyers of the administration of justice – certainly, today and tomorrow on strike, and to whom I convey my full support and solidarity from here – and, on the other hand, also lawyers or prosecutors. But the most worrying thing is the despair that creates in individuals that they do not have fast justice and effective justice. I ask you again, this situation can be reversed: with real policies, with resources, devoting public money to what should be destined for, and not for its wasteful use in shingles and sectarian policies. Counselor, I'm going to give you economic data. It is the second consecutive year that Catalonia is the region of Spain that has received the most money from the general budgets of the State, receiving sixteen_per_cent of the total allocated to the communities, a contribution of 2,439_million_de_euro. On the other hand, within the Next Generation recovery fund, the Ministry of Justice has benefited Catalonia in the distribution of European funds, being the second region with the most endowment, only behind Andalusia; 12,6_million_of_euro, of which 3,5_million were approved at the Sectoral Conference of Justice on 30 April, and 9,1_million have been approved at the last conference on 3 December, in which, by the way, I am still waiting for you to tell me whether you have proposed, in accordance with the recommendations of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, a plan for the creation of judicial bodies, because you have not answered me. Therefore, stop being underfunded, devote your own resources to what is truly important, such as justice, and exercise their powers in the field of justice. Indeed, much remains to be done in the area of digitization, Mrs Ciuró: preparation and adaptation of the procedural management programme to this new law of procedural efficiency that is in the process, digital immediacy, telematic celebration of procedural acts, cybersecurity, interoperability with the other programs of the ministry territory and other autonomous communities with transferred competences. There is a great deal of work to be done on digitisation. Mrs Ciuro, I am afraid that even having in your hands the ability to solve real problems of the administration of justice in Catalonia and to turn it into a national good-doer we will continue with an ineffective, inefficient and agile justice, because you have other priorities, and I will tell you that. You prefer to allocate EUR 12 million this year to open six new embassies than to invest that money in an essential service, such as justice. Therefore, you prefer or prioritize your embassies rather than judges for Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.211.0	Now the word is "Justice's Counselor" in the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.212.0	Thank you very much, President. Look, I've made a detailed account of how we want to improve the efficiency of our justice here in Catalonia because it's our obligation. But, in addition, I would like to ask you to ask the General Council of the Judiciary to tell us, for example, how many new judicial offices can open this year, because they have to authorize us there. And in the past, I am helping to ask for the update of the modules, which, in fact, at the last sectoral conference we agreed with the Government of Spain that there would be a commission to address the update of the modules in order to finance the construction of judicial offices. So let the council tell us how many we can do – we're still waiting – and pay what they owe us from what we've already done, because the failure is constant. We will try to update the modules; I hope that we will agree with the Government so that we can make the right to have suitable equipment to provide a public service of quality justice, and I hope that it will help us. Or help us to ask, for example, what is financing through judicial taxes; those judicial taxes that were created so that they would serve to finance free justice, and that today we have not seen a cent, and that, moreover, on a parliamentary question, answered the minister of the branch that this was to go to the common box and that, therefore, for the service of all Spaniards, not for the sake of justice. We have a problem here, because when the law was created it was said that it would go for the judicial taxes of free justice, and it turns out that it has not been completed. And we want these legal fees, which are the ones that the citizens of Catalonia pay, and which you should help us to claim, because from here the creature also cries, when it speaks of bad financing; bad financing, for another gang, which is also endemic to the Spanish State, and there has always been the poor parent. And I want you to tell him that, in addition, the Spanish state has been in a way that has accelerated the implementation of modernisation, which we have done; I have said before, more than 42_million euros for the next three years that come from the Next Generation, that add up to more than 90 that we invest. And that's all because there's still some justices written on paper, that's all because someone still can't access their electronic dispatcher because there's no ability to do it all, because there's still too much paper required. We need to change that. And I expect your contribution in this too, because we need to modernise justice to make it effective and not stay here and criticize everything that's already been done. They're asking for rigor. I know that it is difficult, in a formation like his, and, moreover, with agents, authors, promoters of prestige a justice that today collaborates with, say..., for the damage of democratic quality, which becomes defective. Why? And he said for the report, because, for example, the fact that the General Council of the Judiciary is not renewed undermines the democratic quality; because the fact that the prosecutor is seen as a tool of the Government, as the last of the CEO's questions I said before, more than sixty-nine percent of the population sees the government's prosecutor; or, as the Economist's report says, that the way in which the leaders of the independence process have been treated, sending them to prison instead of being able to make a political treatment of the issue and not of the judiciary... All this, which is what you defend, helps to make a defective democracy in the Spanish State and, of the Rebot, in Catalonia, so that we don't want to get there. And you're surprised we're asking for independence? Really? I believe that you should be a fervent advocate, as you know the justice of Catalonia and as you know the reality, that you should join in demanding independence, if you want Catalan justice to follow that justice of quality, of nearness, modern, that now shows us the fact of forming part of a state that you do not see it thus, because it has often been a fair little funded. In Catalonia we are doing our dues. We want you to fill in with what you say: read them, what they say read them. And if they say that there has to be a tax update, forgive me, of jutjat building modules, that there is to be; or if there has to be a more just financing for Catalonia at the level of the judicial taxes that I return for free justice, we will do so, because all this helps the quality of the system. Finally, the judges, I repeat, do not leave Catalonia "for harassment, which you say, is a word that they like very much. And that's not what I'm saying, I'm telling you again. I told the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, I told the General Council of the Judiciary and I also told the director of the Judicial School. What do we have to do? Let them work in conditions, that digitalization comes, that everyone collaborates because there is a zero paper and, finally, that the judges and prosecutors of Catalonia have more tradition of making vocations to our country, because we are not a traditionally opposed community. If anyone's from here, it'll hardly go away. When you say that including the Catalans leave, I'd like you to tell me how many dice and the real motive, not the one you invented or the one that made it better. Therefore, thanks for the inquiry, because we could talk about justice, a phone book to the service of the progress of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.213.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspend the session until two-quarters and a half by four in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.214.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the Resolutions of International Conflicts]] [[300-00134/13]] The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the resolution of international conflicts, which was presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.215.0	Thank you very much, President. Advisors, deputies and deputies... Unfortunately, these last days we are witnessing a situation that I am convinced that no democrats present in this Chamber thought or wished that it would be repeated in full 21st century in Europe. The images of the bombings, wounded people, dead women and children, destroyed public spaces, and the Ukrainian civilian population forced to leave their country to seek refuge are sad and unacceptable. They are, unfortunately, the images of a democratic state that is patenting an invasion, and that has caused its citizens to be seen in the obligation to renounce, from night to day, a life built for many years and destroyed at once by an almost dictatorial will and the strength of an invading state unable to resort to the use of diplomacy, politics and dialogue for the resolution of a conflict. For many times that has been repeated these past few days, and we have also done so through the civic mobilizations that have taken place in all the municipalities of Catalonia, we will not tire of expressing our full support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their legitimate government. From this farism we want to express the whole of the ascent to those who legitimately resist the ferotage of the Russian army as well as to the close to two million people, according to data that made it easier for the United Nations, who were forced to leave their country to save their lives, to survive. Before this unjustifiable invasion, which implies a flagrant violation of the international law, we can do nothing but condemn the military actions being perpetrated by the Russian Federation in the territories of Ukraine. Ukrainian is a born with many years of history. After many centuries of foreign domination, on August 25, 1991, the Ukrainian Parliament declared its country's independence, a decision that was ratified on 1 December by a popular referendum. Therefore, Ukraine has the whole right of the world to be an independent state. And we, before a Ukrainian people who feel that they are the victims of gross violations of human rights, cannot remain impassable. Conflicts – we have always defended it – must be resolved democratically and peacefully, never with the imposition of weapons or with force; in Ukraine and abroad. He said the other day: "Borders cannot be imposed by force. The Ukrainians have right to live in peace and decide their future in a free and democratic way. These are his words, counsel, a few days ago, to the Ukrainian Council – to whom we have been able to receive this morning in this chamber – in the find that promoted the Department of Foreign Affairs with the representatives of the European Union countries in Catalonia. In other words, Ukraine decided, through the ballot box, to be an independent and democratic state, and it is disgraceful that President Putin's rule would rattle it by force of arms. It is inconceivable that the year 2022 conflicts are not resolved by mediating the dialect, diplomacy and politics. Never a decision and a democratic will can be imposed, neither with force nor with weapons – neither with force nor with weapons. Let me also, from here on in, do an act of justice and recognize the courage and determination that many Russian citizens opposed to military intervention have expressed these last few days, despite the sanctions that they know they can carry. Since it cannot be otherwise, we condemn the arrests that are being perpetrated against Russian dissidents as a result of protests for Russian invasion and also against all journalists who want to do their job in freedom, rigorously and independently. Let me say, in the past, that nine days after being detained by the Polish authorities, in this case, journalist Pablo González is still without access to a lawyer and without having direct contact with his family. The silence of many makes them complicit. Criminalizing legitimate protest and preventing the timely freedom of information against the most basic democratic values. And from this rostrum we also want to express all our support and all our solidarity. Russia's invasion of Ukraine does not only put Ukraine's sovereignty and freedom at risk, but also puts Europe and its democratic values at risk. In these moments, defending Ukraine's sovereignty and democracy is defending Europe. So let us collect the measures taken for the European Union and Western allies so that they take all the necessary action to further weaken the Russian government and prevent it from continuing to finance this bloody war. It is not possible to maintain normal relations with those who have begun the invasion of an independent country and will rise, and who are wary of the most basic language rights. These last few days we are seeing how European states are not looking to sanction oligarchs. Some have even taken their goods. We're missing this same proactivity from the Spanish State, but that's no surprise either. Let me also regret the frivolity and lack of leadership of the high representative of the European Union abroad, Josep Borrell, who on different occasions – not the first time – has not been at the height of the circumstances and has held some unfortunate and unacceptable demonstrations, much longer than he should represent the values and valiantness of democracy in Europe. When the crisis is over in the European Union, you will have to review the suitability of your paper. For what we have done to the reactions we have had these days in Catalonia, neither is it a waste – and so we regret it, and it happened today at the control session – that Mr. Salvador Illa has used the refugee problem as an excuse to blackmail the President of the Generality, Pere Aragonès, because he participates in the conference of autonomous presidents. [[Widow's remorse.]] The Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia will never use such a difficult conflict in a partisan and interested way. So you don't have to do things. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Before I finish and donate it, she will advise, I would like to acknowledge very positively the leadership that is exercised by the entire team of the External Action Council and Government Obert, with you in the lead, to coordinate until today the different actions that the Government of the Generality is pushing to give support to the Ukrainian people and Catalans present in this country, a task that has involved different departments: Vice-President, Social Rights, Health, Education, Universities, Interior and Equality and Feminisms – that these last days has been leading everything that refers to the gathering of refugees. A political, diplomatic and humane coordination and leadership that justifies more than ever the will and raison d'être of the Department of External Action and Government Obert: project Catalonia in all its future and give a quick and effective response to all the needs that may arise. I told him in my first question, which I made him back in time, that the presence of Catalonia in the world is not new. In fact, we carry decades positioning ourselves internationally in field camps such as research, innovation, entrepreneurship, culture, sport or the same international cooperation, which these days are driving and coordinating from their department. These days the delegations of the Government to Central Europe and the Balkans are making a commendable task to give response to the needs of the Catalans present in Ukraine. And they have made it easier, for example, for Catalans to return to Catalonia from the Ukrainian border with Poland. This is also the reason for being from government delegations abroad. And, therefore, let us take the opportunity to congratulate you on the announcement made earlier today, to the Palau de Pedralbes, to empower the delegations to Europe and America, to expand the presence in Africa and finally to disembark in Asia. We can continue to act with this state mentality. So, another time, many congratulations. For all this, she advises, I would like to ask her for her position before this situation in Ukraine and that she can explain to us all these actions that are being carried out. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.216.0	Thank you very much. And then the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Affairs and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.217.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, congressmen, councillor... well, we could have cleared the conflict in Catalonia. Some believe that, in fact, that we are not a state, yet, we should not have thought about this. Well, he wanted to start by explaining why I think it was important that Catalonia had a position and also acted in the measure of its possibilities. We give our point of view, first of all, because from the government we have the right and the right to lead external action, to design our institutional presence in the world. We want to act in a state of mind, and we are so European that everything that happens to Europe, in a very short way, we feel that we are asking. And this is a conflict that is also a European conflict. Ukrainian is a state that is threatened with independence, and here it is necessary to make a little history. Ukraine independentd August of '91, a few months after this human chain that united two cities that today are under siege, Kíiv and Lviv. That was over '90s. These two cities are part of the map that we see today under attack, under attack by Vladimir Putin. Okay. I don't think anyone is arguing – anyone who has seen the conflict, how it was born and how it has evolved – that Ukraine is a victim of imperialism and an authoritarian tyranny. We're staying with a couple of quotes from our own Vladimir Putin. He said: "Ukraine is not even a state. What is Ukrainian? Part of its territory is in Eastern Europe, and the other part, a significant part, was a gift from Russia. Another sentence: "Kiiv is the mother of the Russian cities. These phrases and their attitude question Ukraine's right to exist as a country, but also let us be clear that here rationality is nothing to hear what has happened or what will happen – well, rationality..., ours. The war has surprised us all. Although the world is full of conflicts, despite Russia's attacks on Georgia or Crimea, the idea of a conventional war on Europe in a country bordering the European Union is always a source of deep surprise, which can still pass today. The situation has reached a point of no return. The actions necessary to weaken the Kremlin are good actions – therefore, we applaud the tough sanctions of the European Union – the exclusion of Russia from the banking system, the suspension of the North Stream 2 gas pipeline, the sanctions to the oligarchs. And, in fact, the government decided a few days ago to suspend relations with the Russian Consulate General in Catalonia. I would say decades ago that we can all agree that Russia was not so international, at all levels: at the level of the market, at the level of the sport, at the level of the culture. In fact, we are living, these weeks and these months that come, surely, a decoupling process of the Russian Federation, because Europe in turn depends energetically, and, therefore, is more free. This will not be free, and, as rulers, it is also important to share this reflection. We have to be honest. This will affect us in our lives: in the cost of energy, in the price of food, in the price of raw materials and in inflation. Here we have to answer two questions, and it is good that we answer them collectively: are we willing to pay this price temporarily to change the face of Russian aggression? How many euros are worth the lives of the Ukrainians who feel massacred? Well, I think Catalonia's solidarity, which is shown in so many moments, leads us all to answer a round yes, it's worth it. In fact, the people of Catalonia have worked with great solidarity towards Ukraine and its people, as has the Department of Foreign Affairs and the whole government: delegations to Central Europe and the Balkans; enabling emergency telephones; making us available to the consulate, which asked us for beds, asked us for support, asked us for translators to Ukraine, asked us for a logistical point to be able to send materials; and also working hand-in-hand with all the local world and the associations that form part of the Catalan Committee for Emergency Humanitarian Aid, which we convened and with which we wanted to coordinate for this solidarity. In the next few days, in the next few weeks, we will see how the Government of Catalonia is generous in sending humanitarian aid through UNHCR and through the United Nations Office of Humanitarian Coordination. The government of Catalonia, since Russia, in fact, began to accumulate excesses, demanded negotiations and non-violence. We aligned ourselves with the European Union, we aligned ourselves with sanctions. Today we're not going to war as Russia's war on Ukraine. And here they wanted to make a group reflection: Members, think, at the time of speaking publicly, in favor of not facilitating the tools because Ukraine is defended, because it would be free to give to the aggressor. And, in this sense, we also see and believe that in this situation we Europeans do not need diplomatic and negotiating lives. What's to happen, then? The European Union should not put itself in the hands of third parties with whom we disagree on the fundamental issues of human rights, and should participate with your own voice in a mediation of this conflict. It is important that the European Union send a special envoy and play a leading role, a figure who knows the questions that respect for both sides. Here I would like to propose the name of the German ex-chancellor, Angela Merkel, who was involved in halting and reversing Russian aggression and preserving Ukraine's independence. The final reflections. There has also been an attempt to blame the Atlantic alliance, and this is not a war between Russia and NATO. The Ukrainian people have not rejected any attack on the Atlantic alliance. Sixty-two per cent of people in Ukraine must be in favour of this eventual incorporation. That percentage a day, I'm sure it's gone up. Ukraine has the right to determine its strategic alliances with freedom, they must be able to decide. The situation in Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania would not be the same if it were not under this umbrella. Finland, a country people suspected of not being a pacifist, has begun to reflect on, well, the advantages that would have been there, having 1,340_kilometres of border with Russia. I'm done. This war is a war that will have long-term consequences, also at the level of international alliances. This war has made NATO stronger. This war has cost Ukraine the European Union. And this war has caused the founding values of the European Union to resonate today in Ukraine. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia is in solidarity with the Russian democratic dissent, which risks its life against a regime that wants to leave them without a future. The Government of Catalonia bets on this open door, which will certainly not be quick but it is important, that the European Union has opened up in order to be able to incorporate, therefore, precisely Ukrainian in a clean future. And finally, the Government of Catalonia is on the side of the valiant and determined Ukrainian people and its President Zelenski. The victory will be the victory of the freedom of Europe and will be the victory of all. I'd like to finish saying: Slava Ukrainiani! Thank you all very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.218.0	Let us move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government on the Europeanist vocation of Catalans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Question to the Government on the Europeanist vocation of Catalans]] [[300-00126/13]] And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.219.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention by sending a strong embrace and a recognition to my friend Ruben Wagensberg, who is currently on the border between Poland and Ukraine, making a courageous, indispensable and compromised pocket with human values, with human rights and with poverty and democracy. From here, a strong embrace, and I hope to see 'wash, the Ruben, Mr. Wagensberg. D'altra banda, madame consellera..., has told us today interesting things from the point of view of international law and, ultimately, of what is a democratic rule of law. Because you say, Mrs Alsina, that Ukraine is a country which has the right to its sovereignty and which, of course, respects its territorial integrity. With regard to the question of Ukraine, beyond proclamations and rhetorics often empty and other times bi-empensing, which in any case we do not question, because obviously I believe that whoever is in this Chamber is in favour of peace, is in favour of not attacking a sovereign state, of not attacking the territorial integrity of a state..., but yet you, Mrs Alsina..., former President Puigdemont a few years ago, just six years ago, defended the unilateral proclamations of independence of the two areas of Dombas, Donetsk and Lugansk, where independence had unilaterally been proclaimed. We have known this through interviews made by Mr Puigdemont in various Russian media. And, of course, then it seems that the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people, cared very little, Mr Puigdemont, when he was trying to seek Putin's support for his separatist cause in our community and, ultimately, within the borders of Spain. Good. I believe that the irresponsibility, the lack of reindeer, the lack of sense of state with which the separatist movement in Catalonia has been conducted in recent years has remained completely naked, has been completely exposed, seeing its current position. The current position of the Government of the Generalitat, with Mr Aragonès at the head, is a worthy, reasonable position which we welcome, but which has nothing to do with the position which Mr Puigdemont played in the toughest days of the coup against democracy which you have perpetrated in this Parliament. And I think it is important that we tell them, because, if not, we would be having a basically empty debate, without any kind of political content. I believe that Mr Puigdemont had an attitude, I insist, deeply irresponsible, contrary to international law, and, of course, contrary to the internal constitutional law of Spain and Ukraine. The proclamations of independence of both Crimea and Donetsk and Lugansk were absolutely unconstitutional, in accordance with Ukraine's domestic law, and were absolutely illegal, in accordance with international law. And at that time, I insist, Mr Puigdemont..., and I would very much like, Mrs Alsina, that you did not reject this debate and actually assume what Mr Puigdemont said, because if at that time it was important the ability of the citizens of Lugansk and Donetsk to proclaim their independence according to that interpretation so sui generis that you then did of the right of self-determination..., I suppose you will recognize that there is a huge contradiction between claiming the right of self-determination of the citizens of Lugansk, Donetsk or Crimea and then end up recognizing that Ukrainians have the right to the territorial integrity of their state, which is a principle of international law recognized by the entire international community, recognized by international legal practice. And I understand that perhaps you have finally learned the choice and will stop making such proclamations in favor of the right to self-determination of sub-state entities, as in this case could be the province or region of the Dombas, or, less so, those of Lugansk or Donetsk. From this point of view, I would also like to draw attention to an issue that these days in the public debate throughout Spain, but also in Catalonia, I see, which is those politicians trapped in the rhetoric of the politically correct when they talk about the arms issue, the armies, etc. I remember, a short time ago, when Mr Rufián said that investment in armaments had to be reduced by 40 % and by definition questioned the very existence of the Spanish army, of the armies. Well, I believe that at the current juncture it is clear that, beyond the voluntary claim of everyone that the world is living in peace and that we are all friends and that there is absolutely no problem, armies often serve or should often serve not so much for war as for deterrence. I was speaking yesterday with a great expert in geostrategy and geopolitics, who is Mr Josep Baqués, professor of the University of Barcelona, who told me that at times, in order for there to be no war, you have to prepare for it; to avoid war, you have to prepare for it. And that is precisely the basis of what I am pretending to say here: how important it is precisely for a democratic society, for the right of all citizens to freedom, equality, a peaceful life, the existence of state security bodies and forces and the existence of armies. That is why, from this point of view, I want to draw attention to this empty rhetoric of pacifism without any realistic basis which is sometimes imposed in our public debate. It is important to be clear that deterrence is fundamental. A few weeks ago there was a vote in the European Parliament where the vast majority of Parliament voted in favour of sending financial aid to Ukraine. Who voted against that help? Sorry, who abstained – to be precise – from that help? Mr. Puigdemont. They will already explain to me Mr Puigdemont's vote, which does not cease to be a clear indication or symptom of Mr Puigdemont's hypothetical or possible links with Mr Putin. From this point of view, Mr Putin has, therefore, had or has support in the world which, unfortunately, should cause us to reflect. There is no such unanimity with regard to the evil of the dictator, with regard to the evil of the tyrant. Indeed, there are countries, such as Bolsonaro's Brazil, such as India, Pakistan, Iran – countries that, by the way, bring together more than fifty_per_cent of the world's total population – that are either giving support or being very lukewarm about perversity, the ignominy of what Putin is doing in Ukraine. And, from that point of view, I think we should reflect, we should think collectively, the Catalans, about what our Government, the Government of the Generalitat, has done in recent years, when it tried, at the time, to win, to gain Mr Putin's benefit in order to try to achieve secession from the rest of Spain. I think it's a tremendous irresponsibility. It seems to me a tremendous irresponsibility that Mr Puigdemont is dedicated to creating foreign-free ministries. It seems to me of tremendous irresponsibility that Mr Puigdemont... – sorry –, Esquerra Republicana and the rest of the separatist parties together, also, with Podemos yesterday vote against the European Parliament investigating the connections between Putin and Puigdemont himself and his environment. It seems to me – by the way, I wanted to comment on it, because of the intervention that preceded me, from the deputy of Junts per Catalunya – an exercise of adherence to what is the concept of fake news, an exercise of adherence to what is the concept of propaganda, to come here to accuse Mr Borrell of frivolity. Let's put things on their fair terms. When Mr. Borrell said that Mr. Zelenski luckily is not the kind of leader who runs away in a car, he didn't mean– and I understand that whoever bites, garlic eats – Mr. Puigdemont, but Mr. Yanukóvich. I would ask... By the way, former President of Ukraine who, in fact, fled in the trunk of a car, fled in a car; in any case, his escape was perhaps similar to that of Mr Puigdemont. But, I insist, when the high representative of European diplomacy, who, by the way, is a Catalan, the most relevant Catalan in politics today, of which, by the way, you constantly abjure and some are proud, for..., I want to say to you that what you can't do is give for good those fake news that, of course, are projected in all kinds of media, public or subsidized, and fundamentally on TV3. I insist, leave the fake news for another time. What you just said is simply false. Mr Borrell did not refer to Mr Puigdemont, but to Mr Yanukovich. I find it incredible that you come to Parliament's rostrum and say it so joyfully, as if that were a political truth. It's not. It is simply an immense lie that you have echoed and it seems that you intend to continue echoing in the coming times. In short, Mrs Alsina, I would like to express my concern to you about your willingness to continue creating these so-called "embassies, these delegations in the rest of the world, doing something that you have openly acknowledged that it seems to me that you are aware of a certain tendency towards the normalisation of patheticism in Catalonia, which is what we have to see as if we were a state. Hey, with our money, no. If you want to make you see that you are a state, make you see it, but don't spend the money of all Catalans on a fiction that you yourself recognize is the delegations of the Government of the Generalitat. In this regard, Commissioner, I would like you to answer some of the questions we have raised to you about the lack of respect for international law and Mr Puigdemont's constitutional law. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.220.0	Then has the word Victòria Alsina, Foreign Affairs and Government Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.221.0	Thank you, President. Member, well, I wanted to give him an initial reflection, which is that the question, the question, is asking me, is that if I wanted to ask President Puigdemont in his parliamentary office he would have to stand for the European Parliament elections, but yes, it is true, I certainly would not go out. So you do it to me here and I'll answer it as I can. [[Some applause.]] I, after listening to his intervention, must tell him that he would have done well to keep the title of the inquiry, which was 'interpellation on the Europeanist vocation of Catalans, because it is a certain title, it is a factual title and it is a title that corresponds to what this society is. The European vocation of Catalans is indisputable. In fact, only Francoism, in recent history, with its ailacionism, involutionism and provincialism, has separated us from Europe. And, in this sense, therefore, to us, few lessons can be given – to the Catalan people – of the process of European integration and vertebrateness. Before Spain joined the European Economic Community in the year 86, Catalonia already created the Catalan Patronage Pro Europe, with its own Brussels, which is the predecessor of the current delegation. In this very sense, I particularly like to recall the phrase that President Pujol said in 85 on an official visit to Aquisgrá, the one that made the capital of the Carolingian empire, if we make a little history, in which he said: "We return home, coinciding with the entrance of Spain and also of Catalonia, the year 86, to the European Community. Well, this is the story of our country. This is the story of Catalonia. What's the story of his formation? The story of his formation..., a first reflection at the Europeanist level is that you are claiming to be a Europeanist party, but you constantly have a flight of votes to the extreme right, because it is because you have assumed your premises, and people already say: "Instead of staying the substitute, I remain the original. And, therefore, this would be a first reflection of your Europeanism. A _second would be that your constant willingness to seek chrism in this Parliament does not correspond to European values either. And here you'd have to do a little bit of a comparative policy. And, in the third place, I, who gave years to the United States and I came back here the month of May, when I saw the evolution of Ciutadans, of Citizens, and I saw it from the United States and now I see it from here... it reminds me of the bases, right? ...the base, this Tea Party of the New Greenwich that the United States gave place, then, to Trump's election as a populist president. Therefore, to me the three ideas that come to mind when I listen to you about European reflection are precisely these three. The Europeanist view – and you don't think I'm going to answer your question, that's the introduction –..., the Europeanist view of this government I think is clear, we have shown it in many examples in these past months. Jo would highlight some of them. I would highlight this act of Europeanism and unity that we celebrated as a final act of the conference on the future of Europe, with the participation of five presidents, and that was an act focused on claiming this Europeanism that has characterized the Government of Catalonia over the years. We have also shown it in numerous work trips to Brussels. In fact, working in Brussels for us – outside – is like working in Barcelona. We have shown, therefore, that we are looking for meetings with the European Commission, which has not been produced since 2015, and I have met myself with Commissioner Ferreira. We have also shown that it is reinforcing – which you mentioned – this network of foreign government delegations to Europe. Here we already had the majority of delegations concentrated in Europe. In fact, no one doubts that the priority of this government is Europe, if one looks at the map of delegations that we have had until today. In this map of delegations, therefore, we currently merge the Nordic and Baltic countries to have a powerful hub, we open an office in Dublin, we open an office in Ljubljana – from the delegations we already had to the United Kingdom and the Balkans – we create the figure of the special envoy to Poland and Scotland, and we create a new government delegation to Andorra. I therefore believe that all these facts manifest this Europeanism. Our Europeanism is summed up in two sentences: the future is Europe, but it escorts Europe. In Catalonia it will not go well without Europe, and in Europe it will not go well with Catalonia. And it will not go well, therefore, without recognizing these national minorities to whom they cannot be condemned to perpetual frustration. It cannot be that Article 50 of the Treaty provides that a state may leave, as England has done with Brexit, and does not provide for internal enlargement. Therefore, this is the type of convinced Europeanism that we defend and try to translate into our policies. You said – and now I'm going to answer your first question –... you were quoting me, so you were interviewing President Puigdemont. Well, what you were doing was an operation, which you've already done repeatedly, to try to discredit President Puigdemont. President Puigdemont spoke in favour of the liberation, for example, of Navalni, was in favour of this dissident leader of Belarus, condemned the war started for Russia in Ukraine, and, in fact, his activity as an MEP is the major show of what he thinks and what he wants. I wouldn't be wrong... And I think that you will certainly not share this, but many people from outside Catalonia and from Europe will share it, that now, when they see, listen, think and follow what President Puigdemont says, they no longer only do so with a logic and with an interest in knowing what is going on in Catalonia, but President Puigdemont has already become a referent for the protection of the Community's rights and for the protection of the human rights of the world. Therefore, President Puigdemont would say that in this sense he does not generate doubts, beyond the border, in what is his role and what he seeks. We are Europeans and som mediterranis, and this will always be our agenda. Honestly, I don't know... particularly I don't know, if Russia wanted to use some Catalonian coup to destabilise the European Union. What I can assure you is that the government of this country is not interested in this type of aid. And, in this sense, we, therefore – and I will not repeat what I have already shared with all of you in my previous intervention, in the previous question – what we want is a stronger, more cohesive Europe and more able to respond to the challenges that are global. When we talk about the Russian Federation we are talking about a country where freedoms are not respected, where elections are a crowning of the tsar and where political opposition is undertaken or even poisoned. Therefore, I would say that there is no doubt that Catalonia does not look at Russia and that Catalonia looks at Europe, as does President Puigdemont. He did not want to end this intervention either, after having made this explicit mention of the regime that currently governs Russia, without reiterating this vocation to solidify us with the dissent, with the Russian citizens, that it is up to them, for one gang, to send their children to war; for the other, to lose power acquire, to lose prestige at world level and to lower the quality of life. And, in this sense, we trust that this Russian people will play a phoneous role in putting an end to a dark stage of their history. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.222.0	It has the word now, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.223.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Alsina, with all due respect, to me [[the timer riu]] I think it's amazing that you're just quoting me to Tea Party and trying to equate it with some other game in this camera. Look, the Tea Party is an ultra-traditionalist party, a rather sui generis thing in the United States, which has its support, because populism also has it here. But, in any case, do you know who is the only support, the only American congressman who has met with Mr Puigdemont throughout this whole story? The only one? - The only one? Dana Rohrabacher, one of the most important figures of the Tea Party, former U.S. Congressman – now no longer is, has lost his seat. And he's, I insist, the only person..., the only American congressman who's had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Puigdemont. With this, when Mr. Puigdemont meets precisely with leaders of the Tea Party... I believe that Mr. Carrizosa, as far as I know, has never met with any leader of the Tea Party, but his leader, the leader of his party, did. By the way, let me remind you of something else. Do you know who Vladimir Putin's favorite American congressman is? Dana Rohrabacher, Puigdemont's friend. I'm telling you to do this, and when you relate the Tea Party to any party in this chamber, take into account what may be the closest affinities to Mr. Puigdemont and the Tea Party in the United States. In that sense, when you talk about the Europeanism of Catalans, and it seems..., and that, listen, if you haven't said it, I will withdraw it, but it seems you want to exclude some of that condition of Catalans, and you say to us: "No, because Francoism took us away from Europeanism. I want to remind you that Francoism, unfortunately, was not something foreign to Catalonia. There were Catalan inclines, and many of them who later ended up campaigning in their party, Democratic Convergence, which were Francoist conspicuous. So let's put things a little on their fair terms. From this point of view, when we talk about the Europeanism of some, I would like to remind you that among the great friendships of Mr Puigdemont are, for example, the Authentic Finns, a party of Finnish extreme right, which are those with which you have met when you have gone to internationalize..., what you call ‘internationalize the conflict.' They have also met with the Flemish nationalist radicals. They meet, in short, with the best of each house. I still remember the image of Mr Salvini, an ultra, ultra-recognized, by the way, formerly Padano nationalist, now Italian nationalist – in short, when one is an extremist, it gives him the color of the flag, and, in any case, he is an extremist and he likes one thing or another. For Mr Salvini did not so much pose with a lustrous stellar flag and also showed his support for the separatist cause. Therefore, you are actually seeking support for your cause, which is not, Mrs Alsina, the cause of Catalonia: it is the cause of Catalan separatism, the cause that seeks to break Catalonia internally and break the ties of Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Therefore, I believe, Mrs Alsina, that you have done an exercise – with all due respect, I say – of cynicism when you intended to tell us that you have been the adalides of Europeanism. Quite the opposite. And one last thing, Mrs Alsina, do you know how many MEPs you have in my party? And you know how many he's got? I think we're... I think we have more than three times as many MEPs as you, so I... your comment was even funny, huh? We can laugh, it's been nice to me, but let's get to it, let's get to the reality: you have a third of the representation in the European Parliament that citizens have. By the way, Mr Puigdemont, in the European Parliament, is a Spanish MEP. The European elections are a single constituency, and Mr Puigdemont, no matter what, is a Spanish MEP. There, in the European Parliament, we have seen you also very bucolic images, hugging, for example, the UKIP leader, Nigel Farage. We have also seen you vote together with Marine Le Pen different votes of one sense or another. I mean, listen, really, are you going to teach someone Europeanism lessons? I would, in that sense, be much more cautious, would be much more cautious, because, I insist, I do not think you are prepared to give absolutely no lesson in Europeanism, no lesson in defending human rights, no lesson in defending democracy. And, by the way, he hasn't answered me at all to anything I've said to him. I would love for you to tell me how it is possible, how you marry the fact that Mr Puigdemont celebrated that supposed self-determination of Crimea and that breach of the territorial integrity of Ukraine and that today where I said, I say Diego, and where I say I will say, of course; but in any case, let me explain how it is that at that time the leader of your party, who was not completely unknown – I know that you change party names every two by three, but in any case it remains Junts per Catalunya –..., Mr Puigdemont said four days ago that he celebrated the right to self-determination of Donetsk and Lugansk, and now he says that he is a supporter of the territorial integrity of Ukraine. By the way, if you defend the territorial integrity of the states, please be consistent and defend the territorial integrity of all states, starting with that of which you are citizens, Spain. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.224.0	And, in the turn of the reply, the Foreign Affairs and Government Counselress Obert returns to the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.225.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, I was doing a little bit of politics-fiction, with my initial comment, because I was projecting the results that have been achieved at the last elections of Castile and Lion to the European Parliament, huh? When this goes ahead and when people come back to vote. But I agree with you, it's a political-fiction exercise, a fiction that may come true. But, answering to the rest of the questions that I raised, I looked, I, for a time, before coming to the government..., I was mostly at the academy, but at one time I was a delegate of the Government of the Generality to the United States and Canada. And the subject of meetings and visits to the United States is a subject that I know. You, for example, have had a temporary amnesia attack with some meetings as important as those that took place with President Puigdemont or President Torra, and I will not quote two because they seem to me especially symbolic: that of President Puigdemont with President Carter, right? For example, or President Torra's with Congressman and leader of human rights and... well, together with Martin Luther King, so John Lewis, right? Therefore, these seem to me to be two reunions that you obviously have obvious and that mark the trance of wanting to talk, of wanting to be heard and of wanting to meet and recognize us, that this was also an important part of the message that we were explaining this past day when we were presenting this strategy of delegations. We want them to know each other and we want them to recognize each other, and in this sense, therefore, to the United States as well, but, as we say, to the main focus, that is Europe. In fact, I would quote that quote from the writer and poet: "Let's get to know those illustrious buryers..., no? When it was predicted that the Catalan external action would be closed and that we could not go on doing our job. I think this is a good week because you are asking me this question and because we are talking about outside action, because precisely this week is the week when the Government of Catalonia – the Government and, in concrete terms, this council – consolidates a network of delegations, a network of offices, a network of special envoys that come to cover from forty-four to sixty-three countries, and that will be extremely useful for us to continue doing our work. I would not like to finish this intervention – because I really believe that I have answered him to the issues he raised – without reaffirming, once more, therefore, the solidarity of this government with Ukraine, with the people of Ukraine, and tell them, no? , that, as I said to the act of dilluns, to whom we want locked home and silently give them the bad news that more than ever we will do outside action, and we will follow it to the service of everyone– of you, too. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.226.0	Let's move on to the 8th item of the agenda, the question to the Government about the impulse and dynamism of the Ebro Lands, which the Parliamentary Group of Common We can put forward. [[Question to the Government about the impulse and dynamism of the Ebre Lands]] [[300-00127/13]] You have the word, to give you the presentation, Mr. Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.227.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members... It has been a year since the last Catalan elections, and we think that now is the time to make a balance and to put on the table the main challenges that we have in the country to ensure territorial equity, and, therefore, because everyone, regardless of the region or territory where we live, has the same opportunities. And, in this sense, we want to start with the Lands of the Hebrews, the four counties of the far south of Catalonia, which – everyone knows – carry important deficiencies and inequalities that can be reversed and that can be taken into account if we want to build a Catalonia for everyone. The data and figures of the Ebre lands are worrying and show us that we can act. According to various studies..., for example, those of the regional chair of the URV to Lands of the Ebre explain to us that, in demography, in the period of the year 2012 to 2019, the growth rate was the lowest of all territorial areas at the level of Catalonia, with a minus set_per_cent. The year 2020 was also the lowest recovery in the country, with 0.67_per_cent, and the year 2021 the recovery of the population, which has been general throughout the country, to the Ebre Lands has been regular and unequal, because in two of the four counties – the Upper Land and the Ebre River – has continued to descend. The risk of poverty and social exclusion... if we look at the data of the Idescat, we see that many of the municipalities of the Lands of the Ebre are also among the worst in Catalonia. And the same goes for the past: the data are not very positive. And all these data must reflect, as I said, and drive policies to improve. In this sense, who are the specific policies that the government intends to do to reverse this situation? Do they intend to pull the partial plane of the Lands of the Ebre or, in any case, do they think to modify it? Who's his calendar and what do they want to prioritize? But, beyond these questions, from our parliamentary group we think that there are three elements, three important blocks, key, to act: the first, the strengthening of public services and social rights; the second, the improvement of infrastructure and mobility; and the third, the preservation of natural spaces and their wealth. On the first block, that of public servants, we understand that they are very deficient and have many needs, and to the Lands of the Ebre they are one of the elements that makes a lot of people leave. In this sense, there are also several studies, especially as regards the youngest population. And we want to ask you some more concrete questions, the first about the new hospital in Tortosa and the Lands of the Ebre. He knows that there is a demand extended to the territories over its construction: the Collège de Metges, the majority of professional colleges, the unions, the entrepreneurs and also the Platform for a New Hospital – which just this week's chapter started a gathering of signatures for the fifty-two municipalities of the Ebre. The question is, do you think you're going to throw it away, yes or no? Or, in any case, what do they think they're doing with the enlargement project they announced before the elections? Have you made a decision? Do they have a concrete timetable for respect? It is a strategic issue for the lands of the Ebro that we have been watering for some time, and, therefore, we want to know what they think they are doing. Also in this block, and on sanitation, we think we have to guarantee the right of avotion to the lands of the Jews. It has been announced many times that it will be brought forward, but yesterday the feminist collection of this territory continued to denounce that, even though it was said that 2021 would be a reality, it is not yet. When do you think you're going to pull this right into the Ebre Lands, too? And finally, also between this block of social rights, I want to focus on education and university. How do you plan to boost rural schools in Ebre Lands? Who are the nine schools they want to build in this territory? And, as for vocational training, will the public offer increase for the coming course? And in five cycles, concretely? And here it is that what I would like, in this environment, is also to make a parenthesis, a special comment about university. It is just that it commemorates thirty years of the creation of the University of Rovira and Virgili, a university that, when it was created, according to the decree approved for this very Parliament..., said that it was to be the university of southern Catalonia, and, concretely, of the Camp of Tarragona, and also – goddess – of the Lands of the Ebre. Today, however, there is only one university campus in Terres de l'Ebre – built, certainly, at the time of President Maragall – with a limited offer of higher studies. Specifically, you can study six degrees on this campus; if you compare it, for example, to what you can do on the different campuses at Camp Tarragona..., they are more than sixty. We understand, therefore, that here there is also a need for a balance, a reinforcement for what it does to the presence of the university in the Lands of the Hebrews, above all because the loss of population sees determined because there are no academic offers in this sense, and therefore there is no training possible, and many of our young people have to go out in a systematic way to study. Think, in this sense, to promote us university students, we graduate to the campus of Ebre Lands, as Medicine, Veterinary, Environmental Sciences, which are some of the requests that have been made, in this sense, during these last years? And if you think about it, what way and for what course? I enter the second block, in this case, the block that refers to infrastructure and mobility. And in the first place, I would like, Madam Councillor, to talk to you about industry and the different industrial policies. In these moments in the Lands of the Hebrews we are living a sweet moment thanks to the installation or the announcement of new industries, such as Kronospan and Florette, to the southern Catalonia polygon, between Tortosa and the Village, or also Freshly Cosmetics, in Gandesa, to cite only three examples. And, in this sense, these two polygons are getting small and insufficient for the arrival of nine companies in this territory. And we ask them if they intend to expand them, if they have taken steps to do so – which – through the Incasole and which is also the timetable to do so. In addition, in the case of Southern Catalonia, Tortosa and the Village, Kronospan has already announced that it wants to build another factory, beyond what is being built at these times, on ceilings of oriented particles, which is not done throughout the Spanish State, but that to be able to pull it forward it needs a railway branch that transports this material to the Mediterranean Corridor, which is precisely touching the industrial polygon. Will they facilitate or launch a study and construction of this branch? Do they expect to do that? And, continuing with the second block, in the two minutes that I'm left, I'd also like to talk to you about mobility. And, in this sense, we want to ask you what you intend to do to improve the connection of the Lands of the Ebre with the rest of the country, what actions you have planned. We must remember, as they denounce different collections – like Diàspora Ebrenca, like Trains Dignes – that it is absolutely necessary to restore the trains before between the stations of Tortosa and the Village with Barcelona, passing through the station of Camp de Tarragona. Because there were some trains that were put into operation two years ago, precisely with an agreement of the Government of the Generality with Adif, because these territories also had high-speed trains, but the service did not last longer than one month and a half, because, with the decree of the state of alarm for the pandemic escalate, it ended up eliminating. And now that they have returned to return the majority of trains, in this case, these trains Avant have not recovered again, and it is also a demand of the territory that can be recovered again. Therefore, we ask him if they intend to reach a new agreement with Adif, as the same Generality had done two years ago. Also, in this sense and on mobility, another of the needs of the territory and demand is the station of the Village, the central station of the Lands of the Ebro, which must become an intermodal station that obviously connects all the trains, but also the different bus lines that arrive from the different municipalities at this station. And the question is, do they think they're going to throw it away? Do you have any plans? Do they have a calendar? Think, therefore, of improving mobility in what should be the central station of the Lands of the Ebre? And I end up with the block of infrastructures, and in this case, talking about reelings, and concretely about the Ebre axis, the road that unites the Ebre Lands with Lleida, which will vertebrate the four Ebre comarques. One of the complaints, precisely of the Chamber of Commerce of Tortosa, but also of the one of Reus, is that its unfolding is a reality to connect the south of Catalonia with Lleida and with the Aragó until the Mediterranean Corridor. We know that there are some better plans – for example, at the entrance to the EMD of Jesus or to Aldover – but the question is: do they have any more plans to unfold like the most transited trams? Anyway, if they do, what's the calendar? And, as I am only twenty-seconds, I will tell you about the third block, which, in this case, refers to the whole subject related to the environment and natural spaces. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.228.0	Then has the word Laura Vilagrà, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.229.0	Well, thank you, President. In any case, I am in charge of it, from the Presidency, as the Presidency's adviser, because I have the powers in relation to interdepartmental issues, and obviously some of the issues that you also point out, which are particularly relevant to working with the local world, but in any case I say to you that today I will not make any star announcements, because, in any case, you will have to work harder and make inquiries like at least..., I have pointed out to the Vice-President – for all the questions of infrastructure, territories, etc. –, Hi, Education, Climate Action... In any case, I'll answer some of the issues you've raised. In fact, obviously, the whole government we work in the same sense and because the Jew, therefore, has what is deserved, obviously; also from the Delegation of the Government or from the Institute for the Development of the Comarchs of the Jew. And in any case, what I'm going to tell you is that I'm not going to talk to you about triumphalism, but I am going to talk about ambition, one band, one piece of work, and the other about projects we have on the table. As in the last question your group asked me about other issues we talked a lot about the Pyrenees, so today we will talk a lot about the Lands of the Hebrews. In any case, I am sure that one of the main challenges to the Delta is the climate emergency, which is demonstrating to us its great cruelty concretely in this area of the country, and, therefore, how you are affected by terrible floods or disasters, etcetera. In this sense, I have to... if then... you tell me that you'll talk to me, so we'll talk more about it, but in any case, I'm already moving that the State actually put forward a proposal for the Delta that didn't please the territory, and that, at this point, what you're proposing is not respecting the current line of a five-hundred-metre feat. Obviously, this territory has seen it with great concern, and what is now doing the department is just trying to give it the turn. But in any case, we might talk about it later. For another band, he was talking to me about the hospital. It is obvious that it is a historical issue, it is an important issue, and that so far the needs of the territory for a better service and for a much wider service have not been resolved. In any case, it is also true that there is no unanimity in the territory, that is to say, that, in any case, there is diversity in the sense of whether there is to be an enlargement or whether there is to be a new hospital. So what the department is doing – what it's doing, so, and it's already doing, actually – is talking to all the actors, seeing what the best solution is. And when I have it, obviously, it will be the same department that gives the proposal, that explains the proposal, that announces what the way will be. And anyway, and for what he's doing to the right at the avortion, today's Councilman Argimon, asking questions..., right? In control of the government, he referred. And, therefore, I, in this sense, have nothing more to add. But in any case, let me tell you, and for what he does to the Jew, that we have motive for optimism. And in this sense, we were able, both the president and the councillors, to visit thirty-six times already, in this legislature, therefore, different rights of the Jew. And, therefore, allow me to explain to you some questions, as well as some sure that you know them. In any case, with the assumption of the current Generality, which I am sure you have participated in some way or other, it is planned to allocate 46_million euros to the eve of the Lands of the Ebre. Therefore, it is a seventy-nine_per_cent more respect than the last presupposition of 2020. And most of the resources go to the water cycle, to transport, to health and to the protection of the environment. They must remember that, as a result of the agreement with their parliamentary group of assumptions, a sum of EUR 250,000 was allocated to the preliminary project of the Jewish tram, and is currently working on the delimitation of the study area. And, if we go into more detail with regard to concrete questions, then we talk about the primary sector, also the tourism sector, the industrialisation of the territory, also through the urgent digitisation, but also, obviously, taking into account those more transversal aspects that make reference to the environmental and ecological impact for the conservation of the territory, for the long-term planning of all important elements of sustainability, but also to prepare us for nuclear closure. In a matter of primary sector, I spoke to him about the progress of the regatta phase of the Xerta-Sénia to improve water supply to the communities of governors. In this sense, as you know, the last bilateral commission will be passed on to this equipment, and so this will soon be materialized. And, in any case, it means the impulse of regadiu to recover a project initiated in the 2006-2010 legislature where more than 100_millions had been put down and in this case it was put to rest, and at the beginning of this legislature this government announced that this infrastructure would be completed, and we could therefore increase the productive capacity of the pagesia of the Comarques de Baix Ebre - Montsià invested 20_millions of euros in three years. The Kingdom of the High Land is also expanding, with an investment of approximately 16_million, which is the basis of the current agrotourism model, which, as you know, is based on the cultivation of wine and olive groves. I also want to talk about the integral plan for managing the sweet water of the Ebre Delta. In this case, it is an adaptation of the channels, the sequies, the wreckage, the bombardments of this whole network, and what will allow is that the background is able to adapt to the effects of the climate change. It supposes an investment of 40_million euros in six years, and, moreover, it will have the virtue that it will be able to take advantage of the water circuit for other sectors. I also told him about the black economy hub in the Lands of the Ebre. Since the Department of Climate Action are driving, taking advantage of the critical mass that already exists at the coast of the Jew, initiates to turn it into the country's black economy hub. In this sense, it is an activity around the alternative protein production strategy. We also take advantage of the fact that almost one hundred per cent of Catalonia's aquaculture – therefore, cultivating different, let us say it, fishes, as you know, prayer, lubarro, tonyina, bivalves... –, which has five fishing ports in the area..., and, in this sense, of course, can contribute to the creation of these comarques, so that they have a productive economy of the highest level, also because they have facilities for fishing, aquaculture and the construction and repair of fishing and recreational vessels. More questions with regard to the bad economy, and especially with regard to making this strategic policy in the Western Mediterranean. To the lands of the Ebre gaudim of the Nauticopesquera Training School of Ametlla, the School of Aquaculture and the research center IRTA to Ràpita, together with an ecosystem that allows us to have the capacity and volume of investors above all, therefore, to diversify this economy, which is so convenient to us. Speaking of other aspects, of touristic themes, they give thought to the presupposition of the law of measures, in this case, was modified the law of tourism, which allowed to unify or work integratedly, better said, the two marks that at these times, therefore, we have to the territory: Lands of the Ebro and Reserve of the Biosphere. The current segregation certainly did not allow these brands to be fully effective. Therefore, this will serve us to generate more synergies. In the field of industrialisation – and you have told me a little – the National Pact for Industry, which knows that it is being developed, will have a territorial development. Therefore, we will take advantage of this territorial strategy, because, obviously, the Jew will have, therefore, his vision in this pact. We're also going to make this balance there, in fact, in the last two years, of attracting investments, even more powerful, because, in fact, these last years have been positive. You didn't point out a few elements, but let me tell you that in the last few years the Ebre lands have been able to capture a business investment worth 288_million euros, almost with the creation of nine hundred direct jobs. In this sense, it seems to us that a sweet moment has been seen. Therefore, industrial policy in the Lands of Ebre is a priority for the Government, with us strategic projects. You didn't mention anyone, too, and I think I'm going to end this first intervention with these questions. On the one hand, the Government of the Generality is working on the expansion of the Catalonia South industrial estate in 134 hectares, the revitalization of the El Molló industrial estate, the enhancement of the industrial area of Flix or the Logis Ebre, among other issues. It seems to us – as, in fact, you have also explained – that there is an industrial awakening to the Lands of the Ebre. He explained the question of Kronospan, at the Catalonia South industrial estate of Tortosa, but also the new Florette plant and the announced expansion also to the Catalonia South industrial estate, the expansion of the activity of Jabil to the Village and the works of the new logistics center of Freshly Cosmetics in Gandesa. After years of losing weight in industrial activity, these announcements of nine implementations of the last few months seem to point to a recovery of the sector to the territory. I also want to talk to him about issues such as digitization in the Lands of the Hebrews, because it seems to us that it is very relevant to reverse situations of depopulation, or, as we say this morning, to get a repopulation of territories that have eventually lost people. In this sense, the optical fiber network of the Generality will reach all territories of the Ebre Lands in the year 2023. At hours of that time the high-speed internet up to twelve people with public operator, and during this year they will add up to one more, to more than a fortnight of industrial polygons. In total there are forty kilometers of new network in works, and they are already in the project one hundred and seventy kilometers more, between Tortosa and the Senia. Therefore, in this sense it seems to us that this is a good measure. And in any case, we will continue to explain more projects, more proposals, to the second part of the intervention. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.230.0	In the turn of the line, Mr Jordi Jordan has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.231.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members... I do not know whether I should have answered with any star answer or not, but in any case many of the questions I asked you did not answer them: on the partial plane, on the subject of trains, on intermodal station, on the university, on FP places, on the different schools, on the axis of the Jew, or, for example, on the railway branch which Kronospan is claiming in this case. On the subject of the hospital, look, from the government they said that as much as the generation would give an answer, and the truth is that we're on the march and we still don't have it. And, therefore, they don't know what they're planning to do. What we do give them is that these studies are already done, right? It's been a long time since they seem to be making, and they're actually making a decision. Because what is obvious is that the Lands of the Hebrews need an answer, they need a new hospital, which, in a majority way, civil society – not political parties – is demanding it, and more so, at a time when new hospitals are being built throughout Catalonia. Because having a new hospital means many things: obviously, giving a quality service to the citizenry, but it also generates economic opportunities and self-esteem to a territory that needs it. Secondly, in relation to the issue of the Delta, we do want to say, from our point of view, that what the Government of the Generality should do is to work with the Government of the State, because, obviously, we are talking about a river that is not only in Catalan territories, but is going through different communities or territories of the rest of the State. And, therefore, the collaboration should be his main activity, and not the toilets, which is what we have seen in these last few months in the territories on this subject. That said, we also want to convey the possibility that the Generality will lead a solidarity pact in which it refers to the mini-transmission of the Ebre between the Camp of Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre, because it knows that in the area of Catalonia alone there is this mini-transmission since many years ago, that what has meant has obviously been a growth, going to the area of Tarragona, but from the point of view of population and of economic pes, the Lands of the Ebre have lost a lot of weight. And we think it's time, with the climate change, to bet on a reduction in this mini-transmission. We know that dissolution is impossible, and more so at this time, because water is used for industry and above all for the need of many people of Tarragona, but we do see that what was done in 2017 with the Ter could be thrown into the Lands of the Ebro, with a solidarity pact, with a scientific conference, with a participation council where all the institutions of the Camp of Tarragona as well as of the Lands of the Ebro, work for a return plan of the water pipes of the Ebro, because it is one of the problems we have in our territory. And also, in the matter of natural spaces, you know – or comment – that a public proposal appeared, between various joints and entities, to expand the Natural Park of the Ports, of Tortosa-Beseit. And the question we also want to ask him is that, if this petition comes to formalize, what is the Government's position on respect, and, therefore, whether they are also in favour of expanding this natural park so important for the interior area of the Ebre Lands. And they just said that, obviously, we share the fact that the lands of the Hebrews have many historical handicaps and hardships, but also that they are lands with a lot of potential, lands with many possibilities and with a lot of future. And, therefore, what we ask of him is that the Government does not only accompany with words, but with facts in the south of Catalonia, because actually Catalonia follows a territory with territorial equity in which all parts of the country can develop, and, therefore, that people can pull forward their life plans without having to leave. So wait for this to go on. And, in any case, from our group we will work on this line. We will present a law of territorial equity to shield investments and to make it possible for any region of Catalonia – follow the Jew, follow the Pirinian or any part of the country – to have the same opportunities as it remains. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.232.0	And, finally, the President's Counsellor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.233.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we obviously share that the Lands of the Hebrews have a lot of action, a lot of attraction, that we have to work together. They'll always find us here. In any case, if you want more concrete answers, you'll have to fine-tune the inquiry, make it more concrete, because, if not, I can't answer absolutely all the questions you ask me. But in any case, I'm trying to answer some of the elements you've raised. Obviously, since the episode of Gloria, two years ago, the State is about to present its action plan, its Delta plan. The great lines on which the Delta ministry's strategy is based are repressed by a general opposition on the part of the territory, when they were shared in form..., in the previous phase, basically because they planned to renounce to preserve the current morphology of the Delta, "retangle the coastal strip up to five hundred_metres in many points. For another band – and I also want to say it with this clarity – Councilwoman Jordan believes that she has broken the dynamic of non-collaboration, let's say it, and..., on the contrary, there is a direct way of collaboration, and I hope that you will serve because, indeed, the State is acting with certitude. Therefore, I believe that collaboration will bring about its fruit immediately. We also know perfectly well that this Parliament has a study commission on the protection of the Delta, and therefore the Parliament can also do a lot of work in this sense. For what it does to the mini-transmission, allow me to try to give you some data for such a way as to put a little context there. The reality of the whole and the granting of the Jews to the Camp of Tarragona is very different from that of the Third. Their contribution to the respective metropolitan areas is quite different in terms both absolute and relative. What represents the whole of the Jew is a 1,4 of midjana, which comes in through the Consorci d'Aigües de Tarragona, as you know perfectly. Therefore, it is very far from what represents the complete transfer of the Third, which, in this case, there is an objective that as it reaches the thirty_per_cent – which is not so, at the moment. Moreover, part of the whole is used to supply water to Jewish municipalities, in fact. Therefore, the contribution to Camp Tarragona is not the totality of the concession. And let's say it's a little bit of a catchy, but the maximum consumption contribution from the Jew to the Camp of Tarragona was 2007, with a total of seventy-nine cubic hectometres a year, precisely under the presidency of Daniel Pi, who, if I don't remember badly, is his party, let's say it, or what was before you. In any case, what I want to put on the table is that it is not easy, and that, obviously, we know, therefore, of this situation, but in any case, it has its difficulties. Allow me to finish a little by laying out other projects or other elements on the table that seem very uplifting to us. On one side, a slogan incorporated into the 2022 measuring law, of this 2022 premise, which allows the Generality to hold this Nuclear Transition Fund for the areas of Vandellòs and Ascó. It's a historical issue, which the territory also demanded a lot. And, in this sense, it is endowed with 24_million euros per year for the socio-economic development and of just energy transition, which will lead a commission of the Department of Enterprise and Work together with the regional councils, joint ventures and economic agents. It seems very uplifting to us. The aim is to respond to the impact of the nuclear power plant shutdown, which will – I'm sure you know it perfectly – mean, so you may lose three thousand direct jobs, and therefore, obviously, it will affect the economic fabric of the Priorat, the Lower Camp, the Upper Land, the Ebre River, the Lower Ebre River. In this sense, it seems to us that it did a lot of good work. Other questions. For what it does to the Biosphere Reserve to Terres de l'Ebre, new impulse of the Biosphere Reserve brand, which also seems very relevant to us. It has begun to work on a new communication platform that will allow, in the territorial and country areas, to give knowledge of the values and tourist agri-food activities of this brand. Therefore, it seems important to us to highlight it. I would also like to comment on other questions that make reference to European funds, because a lot of money will come from European funds, from very interesting projects in the Lands of the Ebro, in Tortosa, in Amposta. In this case, to the Diputacion de Tarragona, but obviously they will have an impact on the lands of the Jew ; also to the Ràpita, to the same reserve of the biosphere. Therefore, it seems to us that 2022 will be a particularly attractive and opportune year to renew and enhance what are the tourist destinations of the Lands of the Ebre. And in this, the Directorate-General for Tourism is working in a very significant way, to enhance inland destinations, urban and rural destinations, and, in this sense, especially those related to natural parks. And here, obviously, you have a lot to say. For another band, weave this proposal of tourism vertebrator in the ethno-gastronomic field, in this sense, for the singularity that the Lands of the Ebre have. And I'm running out of time, because I wanted to talk to you about the COEbreLab 5G project, but I have to leave it for another day. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.260.0	[[Let's move on to the new order of the day, the question to the government about the impulse to women's sport, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.]] [[Asking the Government about the impulse to women's sport]] [[300-00130/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mrs Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.234.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... Before I enter the subject of this inquiry, who already know that it is about the impulse of women's sport, allow me to make a more generic assumption. When we talk about the republic, if we understand it in the most classic sense of the word, we talk about what went much more beyond a state without realism, without monarchy. When we talk about the republic, therefore, with this idea, we talk about that community of citizens and citizens that are mutually guaranteed rights and freedoms. And the instruments to build this community, to build republicanism, are diverse, but we understand that one of these instruments is sport, that sport also helps us build community, build and guarantee cohesion, rights and freedoms. Since Republicanism we have always seen, therefore, the sport as that instrument to build citizenship above all for the transformative potential it has. And investing, therefore, in basic sport, investing in inclusive sport, in women's sport, as well as in the values that it supposes, therefore, the field of sport, is one of the most effective ways to contribute to the construction of healthy societies, of integrated, vital societies and with well-established collective values. And, in this sense, if that's how we understand sport, there can be no goblins or stereotypes in sport, because, if not, it would only be a partial transformative element, it would be very short on what we want to help contribute at the country level. Physical activity and sport are areas where unequal situations are maintained and where traditional patterns and relationships of femininity and masculinity are reproduced. And if we want the sport to be, therefore, this fundamental, transformative element in our society, we can also make the internal structural changes in this environment. So now what we want to propose is to talk about the impulse to women's sport. We want to identify the most persistent discriminations, as well as the elements that allow us to overcome them. And we want to do this to take 'consciousness, to be able to talk about it, but also to conjure ourselves above all to work because in the world of sport, as in the rest of society, obviously, we continue to build this effective equality. Women's sport is a story of struggle; that's what we know, and that's it. As often as it seems that you do a little that has arrived or that exists, the truth is that it has existed for a long time, that it is practiced and that there is a struggle to achieve equality. But more time has been invisible and, as we say, marked by more stereotypes. I would like to recall the origins of women's football, which has, at this origin of women's football, a close link with the feminist movement. We're not going anywhere in Catalonia, but I think it's worth it. The pioneering international women's football team was born the 1st generation of 1895. It was the British Ladies Football Club, and the football practice of the British Ladies served to put on the table some of the themes claimed for the feminist movement and which questioned the existing models of the Victorian society of that time, such as the women's wardrobe, the ideal feminine of women and the sexuality of women. This was linked to the birth of that football club. So we don't just talk about sports, we don't just talk about football, in this case; it's demand, it's empowerment and it's demand and defense of rights. Until one of the promoters of that football club, Nettie Honeyball, argued that it had decided to push that club precisely to show that women are not ornamental or useless creatures, as men have tended to draw, and it is said that female football practice was an act of emancipation that ventured that one day the sweaty women in parliament and tend to see in the assumptions that affect them. And so it happened; a few seconds later, many years later, but that's how it happened. Luckily, we could say that women's sport is starting to be fashionable – trends change, perception – but women have had to endure a lot of harm and a lot of traversing. And still today, now and again, the situations of unequal treatment and discrimination are very strong, and we would like to put them back. For example, in the field of figures or data for which it does the quantity and representativeness of women in the field of sport, according to the statistical dossier prepared for the Observer of Gender Equality referring to the year 2019, the seventy-five percent of sports licenses in Catalonia are men, and therefore only the twenty-five percent, women. The Dones report in the sport also shows this glass floor to occupy some positions. For example, in the federated sport the eighty-five percent of coaches are men, and only the fifteen percent, women. Outside the tracks or the stadiums, the composition of the joint directives in the field of the Catalan sports federations..., they are also mostly men: the year 2020 we were talking about only the twenty_per_cent of women in the joint directives. But they can talk about other obstacles or discriminations. In this case, we are talking about obstacles such as reconciliation or compatibility of the sport with motherhood, for example, that it is obvious that this also happens to the rest of the spheres, but also, and specifically, in the sport. The example of the Nedator Ona Carbonell seems to me to be very obvious, who denounced the difficulties just when he participated in the Olympic Games of Tokyo of the past year, because he was not allowed to combine his activity as the nedator with the hire of his son. Or the Allyson Felix athlete, who is the athlete who won the most medals in history and to whom his sponsor wanted to retail, significantly reduce his tickets because of the embarrassment. A fact that, thanks to the fight also with other athletes, they were able to end up reverting, and even changed the contractual policy in the field of sponsorships or sponsorships. One of the other points: the aesthetic pressure – today we haven't talked, then we'll talk again. It is also very present in some sports or in many sports, especially for some costume bans that are absolutely unjustified in women. A well-known example is that of the Norwegian pick of platja handball, which rebelled against the imposition of playing in bikinis, and this resulted in a penalty for using short and non-quick trunks, when, on the other hand, men could use shorts and normal shorts. The protests, in that case, forced that the international federation of this sport modified the standards and that the bikini is no longer mandatory. But there are more fears. For example – and, obviously, very hard – cases of sexual violence against sportsmen are also a reality. Another world leader in women's sport, Simone Biles, icon of world sports and gymnastics, has also turned into the visible face of the complaint and to have suffered, therefore, in this case, cases of sexual violence. And that's not an exception at company level, and neither are we an oasis at home, in this sense. And, finally, to point out another great discrimination in the economic sphere: the wage gap or the lack of economic resources also to accompany women's sport. The difference of self is abysmal. The impossibility of earning a living in the professional field of sport, therefore, is evidence. And the existence of differential work arrangements between men and women, a fact that does not happen in any other work environment, is also a reality that it is obvious that it must end all of them. These are some of the examples. And we're talking about mostly elitist sports or people who are in the most elitist areas of the sport, but that's everyday, everyday, everyday situations: from elitist, as I say, to basic sports that many athletes practice. That is why, she advises, and in order to face these situations, they encourage the Government to prioritise the impulse of women's sport and place some key areas that we believe can help, if they are working, to combat these inequalities. From the outset, the leadership of the General Secretary of Sport, from which the main public policies from its department are promoted. We know that this is a priority of his department and this government, and that it is aligned with Republican transformations, with feminist transformation. But so is the educational community. We need to be able to work from the point of view of coeducation. It is possible to eradicate those sexist comments that later influence girls, girls, sports practice, as you run like a man or play like a girl. This, obviously, we must be able to finish. And from co-education, from consciousness... it's the realm of work. Communication media, another of the great spheres – also belonging to their department – have a role to play in building social imaginations, and their role is indispensable for building this equality society. There is also a lot of difference between the visibility of women's sport in communication media and even all the professional women, in time to talk about sport. And, finally, also, so, all the tools we have in our grasp to prevent abuse and sexual settlement. These situations must be countered, with the necessary prevention, with the relevant protocols and with the complicity of all agents to make sport a space also free of rapes, as we want. I ended up, so this intervention said that the invisibility that women have suffered for many years, the women's sport, is getting over it. This is evidence. We have huge references and top-level sportsmen to our country: Ona Carbonell, Gisela Pulido, Mireia Belmonte, Laia Sanz, Alexia Putellas, Laia Palau, María Vicente, the company Núria Picas, without going further. And many women, girls, children who participate in sports, also, col·lectius, in the field of skating, for example – which is where I come from – and who, in this case, are world champions, and, therefore, referents for all those children and women who seek a sportsman in whom to marvel and know that we can do everything – also from the field of sport we have everything in power. We know we've got a long way to go. It's a background race, an obstacle race, but we're willing to run this race and win this equal race as well. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] - I'm done, President. And we will do so by applying those values, which I gave to the iniciator, to the sport, which are the republican values, to the effort, to the work, to the constancy, to the overcoming, to the company, to the team, to the respect also. And with a lesson in life that I've always been taught by skating, which is that when you've got to get up, and you've always got to superimpose and pull forward. Women have also suffered a lot in the field of sport, but we are here to change it, we are here to transform reality into this feeling. And we place the government to do it and lead it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.235.0	It has the word, now, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.236.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, you know the world of sport very well; therefore, you have explained it very well. Women have been sporting for a long time, doing physical activity; we have been competing for a long time, and we have been in the spotlight for a long time, but now we want to see a lot more of this pocket, put it in value and put it close to us. I must have heard many times that this will be the parliamentary term of the women's sport, and I have no doubt that it will be that way. We cannot but see that the consciousness that brought feminism to our lives, to society in general, to politics and to everything else, also has a reflection in the world of sport and physical activity. We must guarantee the right of all people to be and to be free of imposed roles and stereotypes, freedom from violence, also in sport. They still maintain many traditional social stereotypes of femininity and masculinity that often associate sport with men, and that therefore also associate sport – but still – with men or with physical strength, with resistance, speed or competence. And we need to be aware that dominant gender stereotypes affect not only the participation of women in the sport arena, but also in decision making in sports organisations. Surely that's what I'm going to tell you: less sports for women when, for example, it was said that Rafa Nadal was the first tennis player to win more Grands Slams, when, in fact, it's a quarter at these times, because he's still superintendent of the Margaret Court, Serena Williams and Steffi Graf. So you still have work to do. Lack of recognition in general, which involves lack of funding, lack of sponsorship, to be able to practice sports. Bretxa salarial and – you pointed out – the fight of many sportsmen respects their selections, respects men's teams, for salary equipping – and some have succeeded, in some states. Segregation between men's and women's sports. On one side, you see yourself at the top maybe the motorcycle, and, on the other, the synchronized swimming. Time dedicated to sports. And that's very important, because the roles of traditional genera limit the hours that women can devote to social activities, sports, cultural or religious activities, because we still devote many more hours to cures, for example. Not to mention the difficulties of reconciling professional sports life with personal life and cures. And you were setting an example with One Carbonell and how she lived, so motherhood in the Olympic Games later. There is a lack of referrals for children and girls; however, we are much better at this than we were and you have given excellent examples. Discrimination in clothing, which sexualizes women in platja volleyball and in many other sports. And, therefore, here is an intense work and, in fact, from the government we are very conscious of the work that needs to be done in this sense. The underrepresentation of women in the governing bodies – of clubs, federations... –; also in the decision-making bodies of sports institutions at all levels – local, national, European and global. So here, too, we find glass braids and treacherous lands. In this sense, data from the report on women in power and decision-making, prepared by the European Institute for Gender Equality, show us that, in mid-January, only fourteen per cent of the decision-making places in continental Olympic confederations in Europe are occupied by women. Little, too, representation of women with coaches, for example. If we base ourselves on the figures of the European Union in seven states, it is estimated that only between twenty and thirty per cent of all people dedicated to sport training in Europe are women. And, probably, these coaches will be, in a very large proportion, in sports also attended by women – dance, gymnastics, skating, equestrian sports... – and also, let's say, in age, with teenagers or children, not so much at the high level of the elite. In this sense, also the under-representation of women in communication media, it's time to explain women's sports, it's time for women sports journalists talking about sports. And here, the campaign where women are has done a lot of good work, and more than it will do. And even the most terrible face of patriarchy and masculinism, such as the inability to practice sport in a safe way without attitude or sexual abuse. And I say it many times, we want to stop talking about women's sports and put the adjective behind it, because that means we're the same. But that's not the case. And so, unfortunately, we still don't have to talk. Put the women in the center of our actions, and that means visualizing them. And by luck, and thanks to the fight of women in all spheres, also in the sport, we can begin to see fruit. And so, sports referents, as he spoke to us, sport..., football, for example, in this case women's football, or the women's team of the Dakar d'enguany, or the leidatana he sure knows, Angela Mora, a person with Down syndrome who competed in equal conditions in world competitions– so, too, sports made for women–, always fighting against all stigmas, against all inequalities. But we still have a lot of work to do. The government has an obligation, as you said, to contribute to this feminist transformation, also from the field of sport. Talk to us, how we're doing today. It's obvious that these are important steps. Take 'consciousness; very important. But we still need to talk about it more, devote more effort, more resources, change regulations and encourage and prevent changes. In the later years, efforts in the struggle for women's vision have been carried out through a programme of the Secretary General of Sport, the Dones and Sports programme, which has served to manifest the objective that public administrations, institutions, civil society, we need to involve ourselves much more in the field of women's sport. In the full route of the own secretary, each time there are more impacts talking about women's sport, or feel-there. I, therefore, give him support. And here I would like to highlight the work of the secretary general, Anna Caula, who, obviously, has a lot present. Important actions have already been taken to correct these imbalances, and I would like to give some examples: support for the participation of Catalan women's sport at the national or state level, or at the international level; support for the organization of women's sports competitions at the highest level; sponsorship of women's teams in very masculinized activities, such as the first women's team at Dakar 2022, a project that helps generate women's references in the motor world and, moreover, is the first fully female and catal team of cars; also support for the Massi-Tactic team of women's cycling, for the participation of a women's team at the most competitive cycling event – in this sense, also a very important event –; visits and support for women's events; sports events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events, events. Therefore, we believe that there are many impacts, there are many actions that we do, but that we obviously still have to work a lot more. What ambits? So you didn't point out a few. In the field of education and values, promote school sports activities and competitions, in this case, to promote basic sport through the sport councils and the català scale of sport at school, which obviously have an important impact on the promotion of co-educational criteria, values, inclusion, social cohesion, fighting against inequalities, because it is from the base where we change things. This is a fundamental aspect, because the promotion of basic sport – not just official competitions – is what will also promote women's sport. In social or health areas, awareness actions, specific days and activities of continuing training in this sense, to enhance the sport for everyone and, obviously, to enhance the sport in women and girls in different ages. And in terms of format and occupation, the technical and technical courses of the sport that have already been created, in the curriculum of genere and sport, planted with the perspective of genere and concepts of co-education. And here I would like to set the example of INEF Catalunya, in this case Muntanya, at the Seu d'Urgell, which is headed by a woman and which, in a very enthusiastic way, is going to want you to have – and, in fact, you have – a majority registration of women respect men in mountain sports. So, it was an important tape and it was an object of the secretary. Speaking of leadership, management, direction and planning, there have been papers, the Dones and Esports program, with the participation of women leaders of the world of sport, such as judges, referees and coaches. Gender equality and cross-cutting entities have also been consulted, with projects and actions of sport training and co-education. And, in the field of federation, we have enhanced those programs that, in fact, make there are many more women; for example, to handball, football, basketball and many other federations. We seem to have moved forward, but we still need to move forward. And that's why we want to push a convention on women and sport – and so today we announce it – and that the conclusions of which are a strategic plan for the impulse of women's sport, which corrects, therefore, inequalities and, therefore, that we can take more resources, more presupposition, obviously, because at the end we are talking about pressure, and that more entities can benefit, with this kind of vision. Therefore, incorporate the feminist view into all the subsidy lines promoted by the Catalan Council of Sport – and this already does –; also, open new support lines, equipment and infrastructure with this gender view. It seems essential to us the impulse of women's sport, because Catalonia maintains its leadership as a sport country. This happens, of course, because we also lead it from the point of view of the incorporation of more women and more women who practice sport at a higher level and at all levels. This is our priority and we are convinced that this competition will win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.237.0	Let us turn to the desire of the agenda, the question to the Government on measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market, which is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. [[Question to the Government on measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market]] [[300-00128/13]] You have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Gemma Lienas... [[Pause.]] So as the Member is not and I am proposed to make a change, we are now on the order of the day, the question to the Government about the International Day of Donations and the fight against the aesthetic pressure, which has been presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and has the word, to make the presentation, Mrs Jenn Díaz. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.238.0	No, no. I can't change it, because I have a meeting. It's that I'm very sorry, but I thought I'd replicate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.239.0	Deputy, the obligation of the deputies is to be at the place when they ask for them, not if there was or there was no reply. Now we've made the change. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I understand, but it's not the attitude. Forward, Mrs. Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.240.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs, for me it is a responsibility and an honor to make this inquiry with a March 8th motion, the Day of Donations. All I have to say is that I'll be happy the day that I don't have this demanding day, because it means we've sunk the backs of the feminist agenda. And I can remember: March 8th is not a holiday, it is a day claimed. From March 8 it had traditionally been said the Day of the Working Lady. It was born at the Second International Conference of Socialist Donations in Copenhagen in 1910, when socialist Clara Zetkin proposed the celebration. And it was commemorated for the first time in some European countries in 1911. It is a day that demands the right of women to participate, together with men, in the field of work. Years later, he lost his job qualification and simply went on to say "Girl's Day", because he considered that not only are women working in paid work, but also women working at home and taking care of the healing work. So all women have the same right to commemorate a day that makes it possible to claim the feminist struggle, the struggle so that women have the same rights as men. Secondly, it is also for me an honor to make this inquiry when it is 15 years of the Organic Law 3/2007, of 22 March, for the effective equality of women and men, promoted by the Socialist Government of President Zapatero. This tells your Preamble that it would require regulatory action to combat all manifestations, still remaining, of direct or indirect discrimination on the grounds of sex and to promote real equality between women and men, eliminating obstacles and social stereotypes that prevent it from being overcome. The women, many of us, have always thanked President Zapatero for his involvement in defending the rights of women. This was and continues to be very necessary, because, despite the fact that there have been changes in the past, effective equality between women and men has not been achieved in the workplace either. This law is based on an eine – that of the feminist perspective – that measures the bretxa between women and men, and allows, therefore, to look to pose-remei. And I say this now and here not only to celebrate these fifteen years of the state law, but because, since your department, counsel, is due to complete a study to modify the Catalan law of effective equality between women and men, I want to express the need to keep the women – the women, the half of the population – as the subject of the law. Without this, we will not be able to detect the negative biases that lead to discrimination of women with respect to men. We own the wage bracket by case: this bracket indicates that women earn a twenty-i-three_per_cent less than men. Another case, part-time contracts: also one_of_each_five occupied women in Catalonia has a part-time contract, while only 5.6_per_cent of men have tea. This tool that allows to disaggregate data by sex is fundamental to be able to know the discrimination of women. Therefore, it would be as difficult to dispense with it as to try to assess the need for infrastructure of a town or city without taking into account the conditions of its inhabitants. It was before March 8th is a day claimed both in relation to productive and reproductive work. And yet, the works of healing are not a demand for women, she counsels, because they have always dealt with them; what women want is for men and governments to be involved with comprehensive policies that facilitate them. For this reason, I, today, counsel, want to emphasize the importance that paid work has for women, since it is with paid work that there is economic independence, and without economic independence there is no other independence. The data, we've already seen, show how there is a huge bretxa, which we can't reduce, between women and men on the job market. But today I want to focus on the situation of vulnerable women, women who, according to the European Commission's definition, have suffered a process through which they have been employed to the margins of society and cannot participate fully, either for their poor, for lack of competence or learning opportunities, or as a result of discrimination. They are women who have very diverse personal and procedural characteristics that often intersect and join. They are women, for example, like the women of our country who have suffered male violence and who must start from scratch at the labor market. Or women who encapsulate single parents, because 98.5_per_cent of single parents who are at risk of poor are encapsulated by women. In change, there are many fewer men; it is to say, that for the total number of women in this situation – 33,000 – there are only 509 men. We also find women of sixty-five years and older. Because the age is punished, but much more so if it is about women: for every 100 men who find themselves in this situation because of the age, there are 226 women. We also need to add the thirty-five to sixty-four year old women who have dedicated themselves exclusively to the tasks of healing. In this group there are nearly 75,000 women at risk of poverty. If we compare it to men, do you know how many men there are dedicated to healing and are at risk of poverty? Captain. The data we give are bullshit from the document Diagnosis of the Feminization of the Poor in Catalonia, of the Generalitat. And, naturally, we must add migrating women without training, or migrating women with training, but they have not been able to approve the titles and reinvent themselves. And also, yet, the women come from the traffic of people, women that often bear very complicated stories and profound traumas. Or women in prostitution situations, who also have very hard stories of life. In any case, the seizure of these women is a key factor at the time of fighting against their poor. And it is that, more than the profiles we have named different types of women, there is also a common profile that fits all these characteristics that I will now say: u, a low academic accreditation; two, a non-existent or non-convalid vocational training; three, a work experience null or difficult to prove; four, a domain of vehicle languages; five, a lack of social skills to develop in the world of paid work, and yes, a low self-esteem and, moreover, many times a very important trauma that they carry over. So it is essential to provide them with tools to get out of the situation in which they are found. We have looked and looked not only at the SOC programs, but also at many others, to see if these women can join them, and we have proven that everything they offer in public in the Generality is designed for women who have a profile that is a little bit more than we are standing here today. For example, there are solutions for women who have work experience, but they do not have academic experience and can authenticate their work experience in the Crédit't window, of the Department of Treball. Or, for example, programs, such as the 30 Plus program, for women who have some training. But these programs aren't meant for these women that I'm explaining here today. And we consider it unheard of, Counselor, that there is no programme designed for these vulnerable women. How is it that their department, counsel, has nothing to do with these women? They are women who, without a determined help and, moreover, a help of a certain duration – the need for a certain duration – will not be able to get out if they do not always depend on social aid or on a very precarious job in the submerged economy and, therefore, they will keep their entire life free to fall into the poor; not only they, too, their creatures. Therefore, we would like to know, counsel, what will your department do to organize empowerment, pre-work formation and emotional coaching – for what it said that they actually have, many times, many traumas – of these extremely vulnerable gifts? We believe that this is a responsibility of government, and more concretely of its department, and that it cannot be collected only in entities without work, as it now does, and that, by the way, they are entities that complain a lot of not having help, practically – keep a lot of it – on the part of the Administration. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.241.0	The word now has the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.242.0	Thank you, President. I gave it to the deputy who addressed the councilwoman Verge, but she was expecting me to answer. You're the same, huh? In any case, obviously, with the Department of Equality and Feminisms we work many aspects; one is, obviously, the bretxa of genera in the field of the world of work– in fact, a few days ago we presented the study respects this bretxa–, and therefore, there is a joint work, as it cannot otherwise be, between the department led by the councillor Verge and the Department of Enterprise and Work. In fact, the perspective of equality and feminism must, in fact, permeate and permeate the government's joint venture in a cross-cutting way; therefore, all the policies which in this sense make the joint venture of the government departments also respond to the inspiration and collaboration of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. Therefore, I will answer, however, in any case, I insist on the idea: these..., in short, the measures that we are going to take today degreasing and laying on the table are inspired by the conjunction of the departments. Congresswoman, you at the beginning made a historic repose of how we got here and what you claim on March 8. Actually, today is March 9th; so, still, somehow, it resonates, right? , yesterday's day, which is not actually a holiday, is a day of struggle. And one of the fights, one of the demands is that every day it's March 8th, huh? Not just the next day, but the rest of the day of the year is March 8. Therefore, it is good that we are talking about it here today, with regard to the Day of Our Lady yesterday, but, in any case, it is obviously a question that we should be able to move and that we should be able to debate more in the Parliament of Catalonia. The president said this morning that patriarchy is a social construction. Obviously it is a social construction that permeates all aspects of our lives, all elements, say, of our daily lives, particularly the world of work. And as social construction, as the president also said this morning, obviously we can intervene from politics and we have to intervene: we have to change the reality that we have inherited to leave it better to what happens to us. And, therefore, our role here in the institutions, our step here to the Parliament of Catalonia, to the Government of the Generality, in any sphere of decision, is just to rebel against reality and to seek to change it. Precisely because of this, in these moments of great changes, of great changes in the almost technical paradigm, President Aragonès has entrusted us with these four great transformations to the joint government, one of which, obviously, is the feminist transformation, which in the case of the Department of Enterprise and Work is very directly linked to the field of the world of work. And in this sense, I would like to make a rest of which are the tools we have today, which are the elements, the instruments, from a legal point of view, which we have in order to act on. You in your intervention, MP, valued the approval of Law 3/2007, equal treatment, the law for the right to equal treatment..., effective equality – forgiveness – between men and women. In any case, I also want to refer to the law of effective equality between men and women, but the law approved by the Catalan Parliament in 2015. I think it is worth remembering that the Constitutional Court precisely detailed up to six basic points of that law, which are precisely those that touch aspects of the world of work. The Constitutional Court annulled six articles, including the prevention of sexual harassment, the equality plans in enterprises, the one created by the trade union representative of equality, the one stipulating the presence of women and men in collective bargaining on equal terms, the incorporation of the gender perspective into the employment regulations and the prevention of occupational risks to enterprises with a gender perspective. Therefore, the Constitutional Court was charged, annihilated six articles that today would form a legislative basis and a number of fundamental tools to fight for the objectives that you have raised in this inquiry. In other words, the Constitutional Court does not want this Parliament to legislate on these things. To you, Member, for example, the Constitutional Court has told you that you cannot legislate on these aspects that we introduced at the time to the law and that are absolutely essential. This is the mark we play in, these are the rules of the game, badly; but, anyway, with the tools we have, obviously, political to transform reality, as I gave to the principle. And from the point of view of the world of work, of the world of work, it is necessary that we do an analysis of the point of departure, as we did the other day with the councilwoman Verge, basically to see what is the point of departure and, above all, where we need to head. Well, we've closed the year 2021 with absolute memories of activity and occupation in general, also for what it does to women and, also, data are significantly lower than men's. In a favourable context, we closed 2021 with good data, but the differences still persist. In fact, the female twilight is also maintained, it is still kept above the male, as in the area of the long-lasting twilight, as you also commented. Actually, more still, more than that, let's say, huh? : the percentage of temporary workers over the total number of employees was 22,6_per_cent for 17,7_per_cent of men, and the part-time occupation– you also mentioned – represents this 5,6_per_cent in men that killed and in women 19,1_per_cent. And in this scene of inequalities, there are also inequalities in the wage field, there is also the wage bracket. In fact, the average wage of women increased more than double that of men, at these times at 20.6_per_cent the wage rate, when 2014 was 26_per_cent– 26_per_cent in 2014, 20.6_per_cent in 2021. Therefore, we have improved, we have advanced in this sense, but we still have much to do. In fact, the difference between a female average wage and a male average wage is six thousand euros a year in favour of the male average wage. And this is a reality that we cannot accept for injustice, obviously, but also for inefficiency from a point of view of the country's productivity. Therefore, we must act, effectively; with the means we have, we say before, but we must act. Well, one of the tools is the Labour Inspectorate; an inspection that 2021 increased by 46_per_cent the number of activities and by 48_per_cent the number of requirements and by 282_per_cent the number of offences proposed in terms of gender discrimination: wage discrimination by reason of sex, sexual assimilation, incompliment of the protocol by sexual assimilation, compliment of plans..., incompliment, in this case, of equality plans, incompliment discriminatory by reason of sex, rights in family and work reconciliation and discrimination in access to employment by reason of sex. From all this work, 170 actions were produced that corresponded to gender discrimination, and 244 to the vigilance and control of equality plans. From all these actions, 136 sanctions proposals have been made, including, for example, one for a company up to EUR 91,000, in detecting three infringements in the field of equality. And, in fact, this is the most important sanction proposal ever put forward for any wage discrimination. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate acts and will continue to act, although we continue to demand more effect, precisely in order to be able to do things like these; and, therefore, to do inspections in companies as close as possible, also in the matter of equality. But this is not the only instrument we have. In these moments we are deploying the plan of active occupation policies; the most important of the history, say, for what it does to total import: 917_million euros deployed in different active occupation policies, in different programs, that are mainly directed to three segments of the population. On one side, young people, attack youth, on the other, at the age of forty-five and long-term, and also at the collection of women. And from this platform of active employment policies of €917 million are developing a series of programs that are directed specifically, as we say, to women, also, and above all to vulnerable women. In fact, I'm going to like to do some very quick listing of some of the programs that you, when you took a look and when you did here all the listing of programs that are part of this game, or didn't look good or missed them, say so, huh? But he didn't mention some of the programs that are right in the direction of what you're claiming today with this inquiry. Can you do more? Obviously, they can do more. Do we have to do more? We also need to do more. And, in this sense, obviously, I am sure that in the area of the Catalonian Parliament we will have the opportunity to work together and work together. Now, there are programs specifically directed to which you were claiming, which then – now I don't have time, then – I will want to degenerate to show that, from the rock floor, this is also a priority area, if not the most priority area. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.243.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, to make the reply, Mrs Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.244.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I didn't just hear... I didn't know you'd answer me, but I didn't just hear why. Because I told Tània Verge, since the first day, that the organization of her department is a very patriarchal and very old organization, because, of course, it contemplates the cures and contemplates the uses of time, that is, conciliation, but it does not contemplate the paid work. Clearly, I, today, who was carrying women with very specific conditions, believed that yes, they were the competence of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, that these women are so vulnerable. Anyway, I meant two laws. You say I only referred to the state law; no, I referred to the two. I referred to the state law because it was fifteen years ago and, therefore, it is a commemoration; fifteen years are very years old, although we have not achieved everything, that is obvious. And I also referred to Catalan. But I've been talking about Catalan, because I think it's a law that's still to be deployed, it's more of a law of desires than no rights and obligations, and so I think it's a law that's to be deployed. I'm sure a lot of people see it as me, that you see it as us, as our group. And, therefore, more than changing it, modifying its subject – which is what I interpreted the other day, for the sum that gave us the agency that is in charge of it, and which seems to me to be very dangerous to modify its subject – I believe that what should be done is to make more regulations, to develop it, to make more inspections, to make more sanctions, etc. Therefore, I insist: I have spoken of the two laws and all of them seem very important to me. For what he does to the Constitutional Court, look, I don't know exactly what articles he has loaded, because he wasn't there and I haven't studied it, but I can tell him that I'm sure that all I've proposed for these vulnerable women are not things that the Constitutional Court can charge, I'm not convinced. Because, more often than not, they are on the sidelines of what is work, occupation. For another band, the data you put down says they're not so painful data. Of course, if you look at work data you may not be, but if you look at poor data I assure you that they have taken a lot; that is, that we have many women who have fallen into the poor, many creatures who have fallen into it and many migrated women. For another band, you've told me about equality plans, anti-assembly protocols, appropriate collections... I haven't told you all about it, because these women are a lot of it, but a lot of it, if they're not even in these women's businesses. But if you want us to talk about equality plans, I'll tell you that only a five-per-cent of people have registered them, and I don't think you've imposed sanctions on all the others -- five-per-cent -- that they haven't filed. For another band, anti-assetting protocols: since they are not to be registered, we do not know how many companies have registered them or not. And, besides, the workers say many times that they don't know who they're going to go to. You're right: I'm looking – not everyone, but I've been looking at a few – and there's no way I'm being made with a feminist perspective; it's to say, everyone has an absolute androcentric look. What I told you about, you didn't tell me. He said yes, that they have programs. Well, I, for instance... I've been looking at other programs besides SOC, huh? And I didn't find anything but really down to the level, which is very low, of these vulnerable women – I didn't find anything. This morning I was looking at what the president quoted, who cited the TimexCures and the ADA. But TimexCures is a program to help with reconciliation; which seems to me amazing, it seems to me very good that women and men have kangaroos to work with, but it's not the problem I'm raising. And the ADA program I've been looking at with a lot of detail, because it's one of the things I think is missing – these women are missing – digital training. But it's that the digital training they offer to the ADA program, and even the basics, is about the knowledge of these women. That's to say, these women need to know how to move a mouse, how the keys work, etc. Therefore, there is nothing to see with what you have proposed. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.245.0	There's a word from the business and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.246.0	Thank you, President, again. Indeed, precisely one of the questions that permeates our political agenda is not only to give response to the imperatives of the situation of the covid and how this has affected a good part of the population, especially the most vulnerable, but to give response to this, attached to the response to those scars that the 2008 crisis and the way in which it was answered generated. That is to say, the scars..., in the answer that, for example, among others, the government of Rodriguez Zapatero donated to the 2008 crisis and that generated some scars, a good part of which we have not yet been able to close at all. In fact, they add to this crisis – which, by luck, has a different response paradigm –..., we have to answer at this time. Congresswoman, you... I spoke to him specifically about the Constitutional Court not because I was interested in talking about courts, not because I was interested in talking about the feelings that a court like the Constitutional Court could produce, absolutely politicized and with an absolutely skewed look, when it was to be arbiter. I would like to put it as an example of concrete elements which are available not only to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but also to the Assembly, so that we can act with reality as you describe here; that is, concrete elements that help to respond to specific problems of Catalan society. Fixed, if not, that you, precisely when you were talking about the convenient collectius, say: "I have looked at myself a few and there is no prospect of generation. And I reminded him that one of the elements that was charged by the Constitutional Court with the law of effective equality between women and men is the presence, the obligation of the presence of women in collective bargaining; therefore, of workers who can apply this look of gender, which is certainly not exclusive to women, but the presence of women in the field of collective bargaining is essential, in order to avoid what you denounced. And it turns out that the Constitutional Court, among other things, carried his sentence. In any case, it is true that there are instruments that go beyond the legislatures. And, indeed, in the field of execution we have many things to do and are doing with these programs, with this deployment of the active employment policy plan, which, as I said, is 917_million euros, some figures that we had never arrived at before. Among the programs, there is the specific program, the pilot program of comprehensive attention to job seekers in a situation of male violence. A program that you said was missing and that we have, with a pilot proof, equipped with 350,000 euros and, therefore, an interesting starting point, we believe, precisely to incorporate this into the field, into the catalogue of active employment policies. But not only that, but, among the SOC's network, there are at least two professional people specialising in caring for women in a situation of male violence at all SOC's offices – as at least two people. Therefore, they are not only resources in concrete programmes, but there is a structural network from this point of view. But you could also talk about the employment and work promotion and training program on line, which is said to be DONA and in which we spend 20_million euros by 2022, which finances twelve-month contracts with professional training – also claimed it – and accompanying actions, as you also took care of putting on the table when you went out to the Faristol. Or the support programme for women in rural and urban areas, in which we spend EUR 7.8 million. Or the programme for the realization of training actions for the acquisition and improvement of digital skills for the occupation, as you said, 15_million euros. People less likely, the effort we're making in this sense. And to these programs it is necessary to add the transversality plan to the employment policies and the implementation of the equality plan in the field of SOC. In total, EUR 43_million for specific programmes, to which all other programmes which are not specific, aimed at the female population, but which also have this look and above all have this priority, with programmes such as the Més Talent CAT, with EUR 15_million; economic and local development programmes, EUR 23_million; occupational training for employment, EUR 54_million; Diversity and Enterprise, precisely aimed at vulnerable communities, with EUR 16_million– this was left when it commented–, or accompanying, addressed people with disabilities, especially women with disabilities, EUR 12_million. In short, MP, we are acting, we are deploying this plan of work; we are doing it in a coordinated way with the Department of Equality and Feminisms. When you make this distinction about the Councilwoman or the Councilman of Enterprise and Work..., it doesn't change, we're working rapeseed rape. In fact, the function of the Department of Equality and Feminism, too, is, as before, the cross-cutting of the government and that permeates all the policies that we have, that are directed, among others, to the feminist transformation that has been entrusted to us by President Aragonès and that we are prepared to carry out from the government, with them, unfortunately, that we have, that they are not all that we want. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.247.0	And now, let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about the International Day of Donations and the fight against aesthetic pressure, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[He asked the Government about the International Day of the Donors and the fight against the aesthetic pressure]] [[300-00131/13]] I have the word – and I thank her for her predisposition before covering the Chamber's void – Mrs Jenn Díaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.248.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, our question will talk about aesthetic pressure, which is a topic they posed yesterday on the table from the Department of Equality and Feminisms and which today too, right? The 8-M weekend, then, comes back out. And I'd like to remember that a few days ago, in the mornings, with the Heredia Lidia came out the Anna Freixas and said a very simple thing, that is that we can't live nor years angry with our body. And Emma Thompson, only a few days earlier, also said to Berlinale: "They have rented us our brains because we hate our bodies. And previous decades Adrienne Rich said: "I'm asking if the woman will be able to start thinking with her body forever. I don't know a woman who doesn't have a problem with her body. Fear and hatred of our bodies have often sprained our brains. Some of the most intelligent women of our time are still trying to think from outside their female bodies. I start with these three quotes because they are three women, at different times of their life, putting on the table the same theme, which is now in the form of aesthetic pressure, but that has always been, therefore, this instrument of pressure, of social control over the bodies of women, of all women, because the relationship that we have with women with our bodies, the self-perception that we have of our bodies, is, as I said, only a tool of control. And that's what the counselor was talking about this morning, yesterday, too, at the press wheel. And, therefore, let us not forget, therefore, that the woman's body has always been a place of conflict. And we see it in the wars these days, that we'll probably talk about it again because we have it more closely, but we don't forget all the wars that have been going on in the world right now, and that these wars also have a space of conflict in the woman's body. Every time we make manifest, every time we have to agree, we end up laying on the table that the woman's body is never a neutral space and, therefore, before these situations, before a war, the woman's body is also an extension of this conflict. What's the world's women doing? So look for strategies, fan networks, fan community. What we're probably talking about here is sorority, a thing that's existed all of life, that's that before a system, before an administration, an institution, a society that doesn't give to the abst with all the rapes that it generates, the women get organized. And, therefore, we see women who have to build tanks so they don't get raped when they go looking for water, or when they go looking for water and they have to leave their girls at home they don't want to leave them alone and they have to return and they have to guard against leaving their girls alone at home. And we see it, as I said, during the wars, because sexual violence is a tool more than the enemy, a space more to violate their states. We're talking about mutilation, or we're talking about sexual exploitation. We're not talking about prostitution or prostituted women, we're talking about prostitution and sexual work. But, ultimately, they're always control tools over our bodies. But if we sleep one more little bit to our reality, we see it in our adolescence when we begin to hear that patriarchal desire, the look of patriarchal desire on our bodies will condition our way of relating to our surroundings, to our family, to our companies and to our surroundings. It has also come out before the references we have to television, to cinema, to advertising, all this bombardment of images that draw from us this woman that is inexhaustible... because, as I say, these references that we see continuously to television, to advertising especially, to cinema, end up damaging the self-perception that we have about our bodies. But Emma Thompson said it, and now I'm talking about television, I'm talking about cinema, I'm talking about advertising, but we have the enemy number or all of us, that's the miracle, that's the miracle that put society in front of us, that distorts us, that makes us look this way, with this lack of self-esteem and this discomfort between our own. As I said, patriarchy has drawn a woman, a woman's body, and those that don't fit there don't exist. But it's just that those who can do it will also feel a little uncomfortable. And here you see the perversion: that it doesn't matter whether or not you enter this picture that patriarchy has turned to the woman's body, we will always find a more elevated, more insustainable canon of beauty that will eventually transform our perception of our body. But the pandemic, which might make us look like we were at home and physically less exposed, might make us feel a little better, turns out that it also changed the self-perception of our thing because we were stuck at home, because we might have won even because we couldn't get out, because when we got out we had that cave syndrome that, suddenly, we had the alien look removed and, suddenly, when we got out, another time we had this aesthetic pressure. But it's that, besides, the other day we can see how in a report... on public television they explained to us that now it turns out that teenagers don't want to take off the mask because they feel protected. What system are we creating, putting a mask on our faces and then not wanting to take it out because we feel exposed? Not to talk about heights, not to talk about eating disorders, not to talk about heteropatriarchal desire, shame, self-esteem, self-oddness... Last week we spoke, too, that it was the Day against Obesity, and the activists who asked us to do so were that it was not a day against obesity, but a day against "fat, because, in fact, the problem is not our bodies, but the gaze of those who want to see us between a few canons or outside these canons. Emma Thompson was also talking about this discomfort with the women who are looking at the Mirall and they don't just find themselves comfortable with this raw image of the Mirall, as I said. In his case, he's an actress. We know that actresses have this aesthetic pressure multiplied by many factors, and one of them is also the old low, and that, therefore, also as we grow, as we grow bigger, this aesthetic pressure takes other forms, but it gets another chance to break us and change our self-perception of our body. I, as always, talk about referents. In reality what we are saying is not so long as this drawing is modified and then another one, but there is no drawing, that all things are valid, that we do not need the validation of others to begin to estimate our thing, and therefore to involve the whole society. Because this violence, which is systemic, which is social, which we have generated among all of us – and I don't think I can exclore anyone, neither men nor women –... I think this way of raping our bodies and the external gaze of our bodies..., which can't be that it's a violence that we generate among all of us, but after that we are individually asking all the women who seek their way there, to repair themselves and to find their way. We are individually asking for all these women who have remedied and, therefore, with all the inequalities that this entails, that solve a violence that we have generated among all. Therefore, precisely because of the masclistic rapes..., and so says the Catalan law, the law that we reformed in the past legislature, that masclistic violence has multiple forms and multiple scopes, one of them is the aesthetic pressure. And so, how come we can't make women make this three-time historical rebel, right? That, in addition, these three times each time there were more times, so what we need are references. I have started and will finish with Adrienne Rich, who was talking about thinking with the body, talking to us well, talking well with our body, not contributing to it either with our own or with the other side. And, therefore, as Anna Freixas said..., she said: "We can't spend years angry with our body. I ask them not to pass any anger with their body. And, therefore, we would like to ask you, counsel, in this sense, precisely because it is a rape generated in the joint venture of society, the Generality must be made complicit, right? , also of the repair and of his restitution. And therefore, who are the measures they provide for from the Department of Equality and Feminisms to be able to apply the aesthetic pressure? And if you can explain to us the measures that they announced yesterday in press. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.249.0	The word has the lady Tània Verge, will advise of Igualtat and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.250.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Congresswoman, a few days ago we launched the institutional campaign of March 8 focused on the need to advance towards a feminist normality. A campaign that wants to break the perspective of equality and raise awareness of the society of all those discriminations and inequalities that women still suffer and that should not be normal. And yesterday we approved a government agreement that went in this direction. A government agreement to set aside the development of the action plan to combat the aesthetic pressure and we also created the interdepartmental committee to push it and follow it up. And it is that the patriarchal normality that denounces this campaign and that we want to transform includes, precisely, this fact that you commented, that stood out, that is that the women are constantly judged by our physical appearance. And that's not just a matter of weight. And if it's the fish, it's by mass: mass fat, mass premium. But there are multiple imperfections, aren't there? , that this ideal model always finds the women and the length of our entire life cycle: cellulite, wrinkles, white hairs, little molts, small pits, small pits, fallen ass. We'll never lock it up. This perfect model for us all our lives. And that's supposed to be normal. Because it can't be normal, as he also pointed out, that women are constantly living in dissatisfied with our body, that they feel anxious if we get angry or if we get involved, that we stop doing sports because it makes us ashamed to teach the body, or that we stop going to the plagiarism because it makes us ashamed to teach the body. And it must cease to be normal that forty-seven percent of girls, girls between twelve and seven years old is likely to open, and that the new year's wish of an eleven-year-old girl continues to open. Dozens are seventeen years old. These are the results of a survey of the Association against Anorexia and Bulimia in Catalonia that was presented last year. Of course, with the impact that this can have on the eating disorders that affect five percent of the girls in this country. And how does the aesthetic pressure manifest itself? So with this systematic representation in television, in series, in cinema, in advertising, of perfect bodies, young, primes, in some cases even under healthy levels, that creates this social imagination where there are bodies out of the ordinary, that are not the desires, that are not the ones we should aspire to. Aesthetic pressure is that we often don't find sizes over forty or forty-two. And it's an exclusion that impacts very directly on our self-esteem, especially the younger women. Or this difference in size that makes a_M or an L don't have any, right? , the same measurement in one botiga or another, or in one brand and another, and it also gives us this feeling of "we've gone and we're going to have the whole vicious circle again. The retouched photographs, the photoshops of the social networks that distort the image of real bodies and that make them impossible to emulate. There's already been talk about these sports equipments that sexualize and seize women. But also the disguises of the girls: costumes of firefighters, nurse, pirate with miniskirts? Excuse me? Any of these professions ever go to work with skirts? Scots, bikinis or bathers with six-year-old size bras? Excuse me? It's not normal, it's not normal. Neither is this permanent bikini operation that we're submissive to women and that, as you know, is about to begin, right? After Holy Week, the watch will be activated in bikini operation mode. Or the aesthetic pressure of being forty years old, but it seems that we have twenty, because patriarchy has this pedophile point, which we always have to look like children. And if you're sixty, forty, right? He's chasing us all over the life cycle. And that's why, as an ugly, congresswoman, the frame as a form of violence, because it has as its object to discipline us: what and how we have to eat, how we have to dress, how we have to prevent our face from showing the age we have, right? And like all male rapes, the aesthetic pressure has to be checked because it can no longer be normalized. And also, like all male violence, it does not express itself in the same way, it does not affect all people in the same way, especially all women. The interaction of the genus with racism causes the aesthetic pressure to take specific forms in the case of racialized women: from the exotization of black, gypsy, or Asian women, to the pressure to adapt to standards of beauty always thought from and for whiteness and westernity. Aesthetic pressure that also reinforces capacitism, sending the message to women with disabilities who do not fit the model of femininity imposed by patriarchal society. Or aesthetic pressure that also exacerbates stereotypes associated with gene expression and impact to a great extent on trans people. For all these reasons, the action plan to combat the aesthetic pressure must include measures ranging from awareness-raising and prevention to regulatory, sanctioning, and accompanying and redressing the damage caused; measures that must be structured at least in four major axes: from one band, which would be... all that would be publicized, consumed and fed; second place, social networks; third place, culture and communication means, and fourth place, the social sphere, where, among others, the world of work and the world of sport are included. And some of the measures that need to be implemented in the next few months and that will integrate this plan have to see, therefore, with the inclusion of educational contents on aesthetic pressure at schools and institutes, to problemate about its effects, to provide tools for children and adolescents to know how to estimate their body, to know how to stop judging people by their physical appearance as society continuously teaches them; a campaign of awareness also designed for social purposes, because the young person knows how to identify them either through filters, or rather through the use of filters, that, as before, does not represent real things; and, in order to identify them by means of filters, or rather, by means of the effect of the use of filters, that, as a rule, can be understood by the public authorities; and in other words, by the public authorities, that they do not represent real things; and that they can be identified by means of the same field, or by means of the same field, or by means of the same, by way of the use of filters, or by the same public, that they are not represented in the same field; The Consumer Code, also amend it so that it integrates all areas of discrimination established in the equal treatment and non-discrimination law, such as the case of discrimination by physical aspect or the inclusion of the approach to aesthetic pressure and the various forms of sexist discrimination in the Catalan audiovisual law. We're also instigating the Spanish government. Here is a part of the competence that does not feel State, does not have Catalonia, that is to force people who use social networks to do business, influencers, to declare, to indicate whether they are making any filter in their photographs or if they have edited them, as have other countries like Norway or the United Kingdom. And in parallel with the development of this plan, which will involve entities, experts and the same sectors involved, we start a series of activities. The first, at the request of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, the Catalan Agency of Consumer Affairs will examine the compliment of the European size regulation to the stores, because we do not find ourselves with this difference between M, L, XL, right? And that causes us this anguish. If you put the EUR distinction and the alphanumeric symbol, or follow, numbers or letters, it has to be equivalent, follow the mark that follows. And secondly, the Department of Equality and Feminisms initiate an investigation against a multinational fashion chain that only counts on the smallest sizes, the XS and the S, and we do this to determine the possible discrimination by physical appearance in which this company may be prevented from exclouring medium or large sizes, and profiting, right? , this assumption of discrimination by physical appearance that collected Law 19/2020. All things are valid, they're diverse, they're special, they're our things, they're the ones we have, right? To walk, to laugh, to enjoy life, and we have to break with these patriarchal models that force us to go through such an earlier, so thinly, that none of us could have goats either by foot, or by age, or by patterns of which are the most desired bones. And as the central message of the 8-M institutional campaign says, "What we find normal has to be much better, and it has to be now. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.251.0	And let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. [[Asking the Government about the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system]] [[300-00132/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.252.0	All right, thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, as you know, as you know, in the March of last year we signed a minimum agreement for the investiture of the current president, Mr Pere Aragonès, who envisaged, among others, and as one of his highlights, the creation of a public energy to regain public control of energy. A public energy that can affect all phases of the electricity sector, in order to define and plan the energy transition model that this country needs. In the same agreement it was explicitly stated that it is a task for the recovery of hydropowers with expired concessions and those ending in the next few years; a fact that, in fact, we re-approved in this plenary, in this case, therefore, by motion – it was July 8, 2021 – still making it new that this public energy would manage the hydroelectric power plants to which the concessions lapsed. And since then, what? So we did... there were statements, right? Statements like that of President Aragonès at the Glasgow Climate Summit, it was announced that, at the length of the own months, public energy would be at stake. You yourself, Counselor Jordan, remembering that we now want this energy to enter the public management of the hydroelectric power plants of which the concessions lapse. Well, beyond statements, what happened? For example, they met..., the government met with the people of Sant Quirze de Besora to make the Can Trinxet power plant the first stone of the recovery of these electrical production infrastructures. And this one, then, seemed like a good start to us. Actually, the one who proposed and proposed the same town, right? : a reversal to public hands, fruit of a popular struggle that goes from the moon and where people, in this case, also from the CUP, from the municipality, there have been a prominent paper. But that's it. Because, beyond that, there has been no systematic review of the concessions of hydroelectric power stations to our country. And as you know, because it's very public and it's been published, many of them are in law fraud and they have fallen concessions. And what we're saying to them today is it's time for parties and to let speeches and words go. What we're asking is a systematic review of all concessions, with a program and a concrete deadline to execute it. I, once found those who are out of bounds, dictate the expired immediately. And also, inexcusably, pass these hydroelectric power stations, which are still in private hands, in public hands, because they are the necessary pillars of this public energy that we need to build. As you know, in our country we have 234 hydro-electric concessions, which generate approximately 273 megawatts of power in internal conches, and approximately the noranta_per_cent have the concession expired, in municipalities like Vall Fosca or the same Sant Quirze de Besora, which carry years fighting because these pass to public hands. And there are also two more conches. The one of the Hebrew, where the confederation is denied to declare the lapses that some municipalities have asked for years ago. That is, the fight of a David against the Goliath that forms the CHE and the oligopolises that run the centers and their army of lawyers. You will be advised, as has already been publicly compromised in the Committee on Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Climate Action, to make available the municipalities affected to the legal services of the Generality, in order to get these centres to move as quickly as possible into public hands. And also, therefore, at the conca del Garona, which, although it does not lead to the Jew, remains suba, also, the hands of the same CHE. And here too I have to put the legal services to work on rapeseed rape with the General Council of Aran. Because, for us, this fight is a struggle that also has sobrieties; in this case, energy, and the right that we have as the country to manage a basic service like this; in fact, to manage all the hydroelectric power stations that are within this trot of Catalan Countries that is the Principality of Catalonia. If you really believe this public energy, we need to get to work today, starting to review and recover all these hydroelectric power plants, urgently and without delay, at times of market disruption, such as pagesia, commerce, small and medium-sized businesses, families, see, day after day, how prices go and don't know how to pay these bills. At a time like the one we're finding ourselves in, and it's not new, but it's a long time ago, it's all necessary for the generality to intervene, to accelerate the creation of this public energy, the recovery of hydroelectric power plants and, obviously, the planning and development of renewable energies under public control. The energy crisis we are experiencing cannot continue to leave it in the hands of the market, speculation and pressure before any factor of destabilisation at international level. We must do everything in our hands to avoid the canticles of IBEX 35 and its titular governments, that the only one who knows how to say to us is that ‘this is the market, friends, and to contemplate from the institutional barrier the suffering of all these sectors, families, trade, pages and businesses. We have to build energy sovereignty. We have to build food sovereignty. And all this, all these sobrieties, in the end it's this national construction that we so much want for our future. And what is obvious, in order to achieve this sovereignty, this independence, we call these sovereignties, in which all these strategic sectors are controlled by the public sector and, obviously, by the service of the people, that in the end it is the ones who are patenting the consequences of everything folded, as always, a more time. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.253.0	The word has now come to the attention of Counsellor Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.254.0	Well, thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Cornellà, MP Cornellà, let's just say that – in fact, you know – we agree in everything – in everything – with nuances; in the background of the question, if not. Simply because, in a climate change context as in which we are, there are two vectors that for us are extremely essential, extremely priority. One is the energy vector – we haven't been talking –, basically in the climate emergency situation, I repeat. And the other one is the water vector, extremely important too, huh? , key because it is a limiting vector, in this case, in the climate emergency situation; important for all uses: for the uses of supply, obviously; the economic and industrial development; also for our agriculture, cable; for the energetic uses; for the environmental uses, which are obviously related, in one way or another, intimately– let me hide this, too – for the biodiversity vector and, at the same time, for the mitigation of climate change. Therefore, from this certainty, from these two vectors, let's say that, effectively, he has heard us talk many times about the subject we are dealing with today, eh? Because it's a big issue, as I said, not just for this department, but also for the government. We have said this publicly, the President also said this – you have not done anything. In fact, many of these agreements are replenished, all of them, in the plan of government – it also did not make any. In fact, we have met with those municipalities– also did not make them interested–; that of Sant Quirze, a little while ago. We were also able to talk to his parliamentary group and municipal representatives at a meeting with the Catalan Agency of Water. That is to say, beyond that gathering that you pointed at from Sant Quirze, it is said that there have been a few more and that you know perfectly well. Therefore, first thing: statements, yes, but not only; work too, and I assure you very much, and I hope, when we finish this inquiry, that you will convince me that you have also done so. Political will too, but we need to set a context and put figures and data in order to know what we have ahead. In the first place, I will begin by explaining those facts that allow us to understand what is the situation of hydropower in our country. And, secondly, if I have time, then, who do we think should be the role of this energy in the future energy model that we are building in our country. Catalonia has a strong hydropower generation system and a sector, i.e., also technologically, in this sense, mature. It's thanks to a lot of factors, huh? , as the existence of important hydrological resources and a long history, very long, in the development of these hydroelectric benefits. But it is also true that from the great development of hydraulic energy to the beginnings and half of the 20th century – that is, many decades ago – this type of energy has gradually grown in a very moderate way, not to say very small. Thus, in these later years, growth has focused on small-scale, small-scale and medium-sized enterprises. There are 321 hydroelectric installations in our country at this time, with an installed power of about 2,360 megawatts. Now, it is important to distinguish – and this is very important – those that are from internal conques – you have not made any point – that is, obviously, of competence from the Catalan Agency of Water, and those that are from the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro, as you have also commented. We are talking, therefore, that in internal conches, which directly affects us, we have about 230 hydroelectric power stations, with about 250 captures – it is obvious that there can be some power station that has more than one capture – 139 holders, of these 230, and 272 megawatts of installed power. For what it does to the concessions of these 230, fifteen of these – of these, fifteen – fall in a period of two years, and in a period of twenty years in concretely fall twelve. It remained – it remained – a priori, do not fall until the year 2061. It is also true that the mini-hydraulic sector finds itself very atomized, by being owned, as we say before, by many small entrepreneurs and many peppers that have one or a few central ones. Most of these installations – most of them – are of small power, 218 have roughly less than a megawatt and together represent only three per cent of the hydropower. On the other hand, only twenty-seven installations represent the eighty_per_cent of this installed power. You're important to this given. These hydroelectric installations generate today, depending on the rainfall of the year obviously, between fifty and seventy per cent of renewable electricity production and between eight and thirty per cent of the electricity production of the total of our country. Another question that is also worth talking about in relation to the second vector we are talking about, the water vector, with which we have started, is the subject of the entire environment, which you will fully agree with what I will say now. Hydroelectric energy also has the paradox... in fact, it's a green and net energy, isn't it? But you can leave..., you could leave waterless river trams if we weren't able to apply the proper and relevant measures and control. Therefore, good management is a key piece in this sense. Between 2018 and 2020, there is the obligation, which is to celebrate, to complete the entire environment in a hundred_per_cent of the laughs of our shells, of internal shells. From the department we also have to look for a balance, a sense of doubt, guaranteeing the complete environment, but working so that the mini-centrals can guarantee its functioning in a climate change context and where we can obviously enhance the green energies. Therefore, from all these considerations that we have said very quickly – and which eased the numbers, I would just miss, to the parliamentary group that I obviously need – what is the role that we, as the government, believe that hydropower, in this case, must take in our country's future energy model? So mirin, hydropower plays an important role; important in the production of electrical energy as a renewable source. But for the future, the most important contribution of hydropower to energy transition is not so much in its production, that we have already said what the numbers are – it's also important, huh? , but it is not so much in its production – but in the ability to manage this energy and give flexibility to the electrical system. So we estimate, a few days ago – thanks to the presentation of the Proencat, of this energy outlook with this 2050 horizon –, which precisely 2050, which we are talking about today only generates – only generates – or represents the six_per_cent of total renewable electricity production – the six_per_cent– ; which is very important, but it is a six_per_cent, we do not lose sight of it. It's a small sip, but, I repeat, it's important. But the importance, if I may say so, is very limited in that hydropower plants – and here it is very important – have embassements, and therefore give flexibility to the renewable electricity system. In addition, hydropower, and even whatever it doesn't have – even this – also produces electrical energy with very different time profiles to the photovoltaic solar, obviously, and also to the wind, such as windless nits; and this is extremely important. And as you know, the storage of electricity is a key aspect in managing the future renewable electricity system. Precisely, as I said, Proencat, this prospective, puts into value this storage capacity; it is very important. And, finally, it should also be noted that less storage is more likely to require interconnection capacity with the energy systems in the coming years; that is, to say, in other words, less power lines. And that must also agree with me which is very important. Conclusion: we are working in public energy; we are doing it as quickly as we can. In fact, we were going to approve it on the assumption, you have to remember it perfectly, we were going to put ourselves in this hour of six months, and, above all, in what must be its scope of action, that here is where in the end we will see the need for this energy, right? We are clear that it is one of the main tools, meaning doubt, to transform the energetic model. Still, a couple of questions, too, huh? As has been said before, many Catalan hydroelectric power stations are located in the conca de l'Ebre – here I come back because it is important – and, therefore, it is the CHE, in this case, and not the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has to make the decision whether or not the concession expires or at the time the concession expires, they have to go ahead, to set an example, or they have to go to public office, or they have to open another bidding process, in this case. The production. And the other consideration is that the production of electricity is not the priority use of these power plants – that's also important for us to be clear, huh? – before water has to be guaranteed for human consumption, obviously, or for other uses: agriculture, leure, etc. This aspect I think is important in the case of the Sau-Susqueda system, for example. In short, all hydropower plants have – all, eh? in this case – a paper – and we agree with you perfectly – to play in all this energy transition so important at these times. Everyone always fits into this model that we have defined as a suitable model, as a catal model, as a distributed model, as a model with territorial cohesion and, above all, democratic, and, obviously, if we understand democracy, we participate in it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.255.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.256.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members... As you know, therefore, Councillor, this question will end with a motion next plenary, and I am convinced that we will hear each other perfectly at the time of negotiation and agreement, because, seeing their answer, it is clear that we are going in the same line, that we are clear that this public energy is an indispensable tool for this country, a state structure, we might say, and that hydropower will be a very key part of it. And we'll need to work hard and put a lot of effort into it, because, like you said yourself, that's not going to be easy; that's not going to be easy with those that aren't internal shells. He tells us that there are some twenty-seven that his grant will expire in the next few years. So let's start working intensely with these, to do, to look for all the documentation, which, for what I understand, is sometimes not difficult..., I'm sorry – sometimes it's not easy to find all this documentation, because the companies that run these centers don't have it easy, right? Because they don't want to lose this cupcake they've had for many years, and that, in fact, as you know, some government favored it being renewed for many years more – seventy-five years more, if I'm not mistaken. And that's also a question that we should look at in the background, because actually this legality, this way of making the State extend these concessions this way..., we could study, so, if this really is a law fraud and all these concessions that went on this enlargement totally unjustly could also fall more quickly into public hands, because actually what would happen is that its concession is already expired and many years ago. I mean, it's a theme I think, that we think we should also study, because here for many years things have been done as they have been done, to favor privates and oligopolises. Because the rotating doors continued to roll, concessions had to be extended to the same extent as ever. And so they did. Here, from Catalonia, we do different things, and different things we have to do, so, to try to reverse all these irregularities that we heard were done. With the clean environment, therefore, totally agreeable. It's obviously a kind of energy that needs to be watched. Troubles, we already have a few rivers, as you know perfectly, with your whole, don't you? , which, in fact, is too small, and from many years ago, as if we could afford second besties. And it is also true that it is an energy that gives us the ability to supply, in hours of non-production of the sun, or wind itself..., production can solve, if not, a little bit in night hours. Therefore, in all these themes we have the same vision, we fully share everything he has told us. The ciphers will get us there by now. Anyway, that's it, isn't it? Repeat to him that we will work the young man, well, with the governing parties, also with the opposition parties that so desire. I'm sure we'll get to an agreement to push forward, so this model we're proposing for the country. And we'll keep talking about energy. Because here too he has made reference to Proencat, he has also made reference to the energy model, and as we do share, I am sure that in a few percent, so, very big, the topic of hydropower plants– maybe the energy model we do not share, if not in the same way–, I think we will have time and occasions in this same hemisphere to continue talking to us soon, to confront, in a positive way, these different models that you propose and that we propose to us. Many thanks, therefore, for your intervention and we will continue working with your groups to make this motion as wide as possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.257.0	And finally you have the word, in the turn of the line, Counselor Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.258.0	All right, thank you, Congressman. A couple of considerations, and I also let'mix it another thing, which I've expected to do now in the replica turn. You're obvious, huh? , which, before the climate emergency we live in, the government's commitment – we have explained 25_million times – is to move towards an energy transition across the country. We agree and understand all the energy sovereignty that you say to me, but this means making the transition – and we will talk about it when we convince – of a society in which the consumption of fossil fuels tends to be extremely zero and arrive at this carbon neutrality, and of an energy system that we understand to be decentralized, obviously, decarbonized, by proximity, with the objective of achieving, which we have often explained to us, an economic and energetic model that does not depend on fossil fuels or nuclear fuels, and, obviously, out of this extractive economy. We agree on that. Moreover, for the first time the Government has this document of the Proencat: data, rigor... Important: a map; this I think is very important. And I'm sure we'll make it. And one of the key steps in this full route is also the creation of public energy. And I'm going back to putting the table on the table – you've done it and I'm going back to doing it – because we want to focus, as it cannot be otherwise, from the Administration, as far as we can – now we don't have these tools, so we'll build them – on the energy sector, to also focus on all phases of the electrical sector, to define and plan this energy transition model, which is extremely important. And we also want this public energy to get into the management of the issue that we are dealing with today: the management of the hydroelectric power plants from which concessions fall. Every type of hydroelectric power plant – and now we won't have time – can play different papers, huh? , in the management of the system, of the electrical system; it is to say, the bombardment can help to balance the offer and the demand, in changing the large centers with reservoirs – of the Pyrenees, for example – can play another paper, another role – of storage, in this case, more seasonal, that can help us a lot. However, in any case, we will have time to analyse all the possibilities that the hydropower plants will allow us. You talked about it, too, huh? , and I'm going back to putting these keys down, very quickly, and I'm done with this. About 230 hydroelectric power plants, of which 15 fall, in a period of two years – this a priori, all that, huh? – 3 of them – of these 15 –, and in a period of twenty years the remaining twelve. The remainder of concessions – I recall: a priori – expire 2061. You have announced here, just as well as the fruit of your inquiry, that since the Department of Women's Climate Action – in fact, it is already being auctioned – an extremely thorough – extremely thorough – review of all the historical documents – because we are talking about this, about historical documents – of all these 230 concessions of hydroelectric power plants, to see if they are detected irregular..., that in Sant Quirze we have already found this, say, and thanks to the insistence of the municipal group and the people working after all this we have been able to put it into evidence. So, in case they detect irregularities and possible concessions, it's also, like, extinguishing; which, I repeat, is very possible. When you say history – and that's very important – it's because..., I mean we'll review documentation that in some cases dated from the year 1800; that's to say, that's not going to be easy. I know you want us to go to the speed of the light; so do I. But that's the Administration. We'll try to go with what we put down now 290 and a few days ago, at least from the department, and I understand that also from the government, that it's the sisena; that we'll do a lot. But we have to do this job because it's extremely important, huh? Therefore, I call for an important archival review and a technical and legal analysis, as you rightly pointed out, which we will certainly be doing to know whether any of these concessions can be reversed. And I end up, now, with two considerations. U: we rely on the role of energy and hydropower plants that provide Catalonia, as in the past, especially in their ability to give flexibility to our electrical system, which is very important. And two: public energy will be a tip, a sense of doubt, a key to the transformation of the energy model of this country; it is to say, that the disposition of all and of all and of course we will get out of it in everything that refers to the hydroelectric plants of our country. Many thanks; good late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-09-2601.259.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
