ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.1.0	Good morning. Let us resume the session with questions to the Government with an oral answer. [[Ask the Government about actions against the quality loss of Catalan sanitation]] [[310-00200/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on actions against the quality loss of Catalan sanitation. Asks the question Mr David Cid, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Pom... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.2.0	Yes, Madam President, for a call to comply with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 90 of the Rules of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.3.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, the call to observe the Rules is when there is already a substantial point or there is some debate in action. What do you want me to call attention to at this point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.4.0	It is a preliminary question, Madam President, that we have not been able to give our opinion in any other area, because the Bureau has not unilaterally put forward a request for an opinion to the Council for statutory guarantees of our group and of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.5.0	Mr Martín Blanco, the Bureau has not unilaterally failed. The Bureau has taken the decisions it has considered opportune and, therefore, you know perfectly well that you have the pipeline in order to be able to make the reconsideration that I consider appropriate to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.6.0	Yeah, but we have a problem... what do we think, huh? President... I say to the title of... let's say so, to guarantee a debate that is truly plural...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.7.0	It's just that we won't have a debate on this issue. We can't guarantee a debate because we won't have it. You may make any revisions that you consider appropriate to the Bureau; not in this full space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.8.0	But the debate... no, no; I am not saying a debate between you and me on this question, but on the 23rd point that it will be this late, where precisely the opinion that we are asking the Council of Guarantees Statutes precisely has as because of the fact of having...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.9.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.10.0	...a debate just in this sense, because if you don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.11.0	Yeah, that's right. Mr Martín Blanco, I repeat it: you can make the reconsideration that I consider appropriate to the Bureau. When this review is completed, the Bureau will meet and respond to the review.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.12.0	But president, it's that... no, I think that, or we should remove this item from the agenda... because we are under defencelessness on the part of the Bureau. And before this defencelessness, logically, we have had to present today in the morning, before the Council of Statutory Guarantees, this request for an opinion, which you unilaterally do not admit, knowing that it goes against the Rules and knowing that it goes against the predecessors of this chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.13.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I repeat, we will not have a debate on this question to the chamber. You have made the..., have taken the determinations that you have considered opportune and can last the review to the Bureau, which will reassemble to attend to your review before it arrives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.14.0	We'll do that, but logically...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.15.0	...this point of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.16.0	...the request for an opinion is already submitted before the State Guarantee Board.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.17.0	Thank you very much, he's already informed us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.18.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.19.0	Let's keep asking questions. The word has the deputy of In Comú Podemos, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.20.0	Good morning, Counselor. [[The speaker keeps talking without using the microphone.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Now. I'll start again. Good morning, Counselor. Catalonia's public health system is losing quality; the year loses a year back a year. It has increased the number of Catalans and Catalans who choose private health assurances. In four years, Catalonia has moved from a twenty-i-five per cent of the population with mutual health care to thirty-two per cent. These four statements, together with the fact that this is really the privatisation of Catalan public health, are all his words. Counselor, what is the Catalan government doing to halt the privatisation and loss of quality of Catalan public health?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.21.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.22.0	President... we have a quality health system that we need to preserve. And this is an important element, and I think we'll always find ourselves here. There is also another element that we need to highlight: that it is a system with a full portfolio of servers. Yes, with very well trained professionals, they are the ones who give this quality of service. System underfunded chronically. And here we'll have to find a solution. And I also have to say that these assumptions allow us, in part – not at all, but in part – to reverse some of these hardships. And here too I must thank them – I must thank them very sincerely – that they have given support to these assumptions. And then I'll detail it already, in reply, some of the actions that we're due to end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.23.0	To answer that question, Mr. David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.24.0	Counselor, Catalan sanitation loses quality – with its own words – by collapsing at our primary health centres. People are mutual because primary care is at the limit. He's demanding more resources, but to do what? With a well-recorded assumption of salvation, we are less in primary care than before the covid. And that's what you decide here, that's what you decide, that's not what you decide in Madrid. I'll give you three examples. In Sabadell, SOS Pediatrics reports that primary care centers lose their pediatrician. Seas like Lorraine explain that they triage three weeks to have time for pediatrics. To Sant Joan Despí, the director Margi Gual explains that the two CAPs of the municipality have lost gynaecology and must go to Cornellà. And to Sant Joan de Vilatorrada, Carmen backs signatures because they have lost pediatric emergencies to her CAP and must spend twelve hours– twelve hours– to the emergencies of the Hospital of Sant Joan de Deu de Manresa. Counselor, we're asking you to focus the detail on primary care, the loss of specialties. We need a plate of tea in less than three months for primary care, to ensure, by the end, the visit to the headmaster in less than forty-four hours, and less than three weeks for the visit to the specialist. Asking for a doctor's hour can't be a digital gymnasium. And we announced it: we are working on a law of primary care, to ensure, once and for all, the twenty-five percent of resources in primary care. It's time for our public sanitation to lose quality. It's his responsibility and his government's responsibility. We need to move from word to word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.25.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.26.0	Well, some of the things that we're putting in the way of at these times: more than six hundred people, more than six hundred professional graders, who are part of primary care teams – psychologists, nutritionists, physiotherapists. All of them, to work in prevention and promotion of salvation. And this is an element that had never been given: the orientation of primary care and, we remember, community. And, therefore, these six hundred people who have to help us in this element of prevention and promotion. According to 4,500 people who have incorporated, year 21, to the primary attention. Of them, 2,500 administrators who have, of course, done many covetous jobs, but at these times, if all goes well and the covet is returned, they will be people who will be fully integrated into these teams and, therefore, will help us to unbureaucratize and help us, as well as citizens, to have better access to our health centres. We are also, in this sense – and here we have also found ourselves – with the whole field of odontology in primary care – and we have also found ourselves. I would also like to say some important things here. When you're talking about the thirty-two... and you said it, listen, I explained it all in this faristol. Therefore, here is the first element: that we listen to us; despite the age difference, that we listen to us. And so, too, from this point of view, is the way to find solutions. And also one of the solutions is, when we talk about the twenty-i-five_per_cent, knowing what we count on this twenty-i-five_per_cent. And that's what we've been talking about some time. And I think we'll find ourselves here too: to know how we count this twenty-i-five_per_cent. And lastly, there's chronic underfunding. And I also demand – and I know I will also find your support – that we go to claim these money, this support, these 1,400_millions in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the international appeal of Catalan business fabric]] [[310-00202/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the international appeal of Catalan business. The question is posed by Mr Engelbert Montalà, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.28.0	Thank you, President. In this chamber – you must agree, constable Torrent – we have listened to a catastrophic and false speech about the Catalan economy over and over again. The fan serves as an excuse for those who do not want to face the legitimate requests for self-determination of the citizenry. Those who want to defend the privileges of the most classed in the face of progress policies that are a guarantee of shared prosperity. The reality, however, is clumsy, and the data deny falsehoods and orchestrated campaigns of misinformation and apocalyptic speeches that the only one looking for is the easy holder and the populist who masks retrograde and antisocial agendas. Let me get you some data. Last week we knew that the Financial Times recognized Catalonia and Barcelona as the territory and city of Europe with the best strategy to capture foreign investments. I made the work of Action in value, an authentic summer structure to boost our economy. There's no news out there. The 2021 Catalonia led the reduction of the atur; a reduction of 25.8_per_cent compared to 2020, and a rate of 10.92_per_cent, the lowest since 2008. The Financial Times already qualified Catalonia as the most attractive region to invest-hi 2017. At the beginning of the fever we knew that 2021 the Catalan economy grew with a 5.9_per_cent; above the Spanish middle, which was of a five_per_cent. Neither independence is a cause of economic instability nor Catalonia is a fiscal hell. And when a view of the BOE's captured economy rises, you see clearly. And we believe that this is the way: to gamble for an economy that competes in knowledge, not in precariousness; an internationalized and sustainable economy. We're on our way. Catalonia is not only a leader in attracting investment, but in exports. In October, the Department of Enterprise and Labour announced that it had a forecast of over €74,000_million. Can you tell us which was, in the end, the export version of the entire year 2021? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.29.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.30.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, actually, the reality is what it is, the data are what they are. And last week, I answered your question, we reviewed the official export data for 2021. And we closed the exercise with 80,500_million euros of exports, effectively exceeding the forecasts we have for October. This means an increase of the new_per_cent compared to 2019 and of 21.5_per_cent compared to 2020, over the growth of the euro area middle-income, and placing us in historical figures, in figures remembering the whole historical series. These figures denote different things, actually. The first is that the export sector, exportation, is manifest as the real tractor of economic recovery, because it pushes over levels, for example, that pushes the conjunction of GDP. So, it's a clear recovery engine. It also shows that Catalonia continues to feel an economic engine, the economic engine of southern Europe. And, finally, it demonstrates – and this is obvious – the resilience and robustness of the Catalan business fabric. We want to continue working on this line, on the line of the internationalization of our economy. We know our market is the world. We want to continue doing what we have done so far, going the way we have done to expand the export base, to add companies to regular export companies, to open up markets or to establish Catalan subsidiaries outside. And we will do so through, above all, Action, which, indeed, last week also experienced a clear recognition by the IDF, this guide, this magazine of the Financial Times, referring to the possible investors, a magazine that says Catalonia has the best strategy of attracting foreign investment, carried mainly through Action, which allowed us to get, capture, seventy-seven investment projects, mobilizing 480_million euros and creating 2,300 jobs. And if we've done all this with the tools we have, which are not the ones of a state, imagine the potential we can harness when we have the tools of a state. Thank you, Congressman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.31.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the evidence of the unified selection of local police officers to the Maresme. [[Ask the Government about the unified selection of local police officers to Maresme]] [[310-00203/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Palacín, Member of the Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.32.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor, a few days ago we knew that in the Maresme region a pilot test is set aside, in order to finish a unified call of local police officers with a selection of about thirty agents; a measure that will allow the joints to quickly cover the agents' cuts and to expedite the contract for periods when the joints need reinforcements. In this sense, I would like to point out that it is important to value the support of the supramunicipal and also the Department of the Interior at the time to implement measures and actions that allow the joints to release the overload they may have in certain areas, and one of them is this. As the registrar of my municipality, Pineda de Mar, I consider that we are making positive progress in the direction of making the reforms that are needed to achieve a simplified administration with criteria that unify the processes. Thus, taking into account this progress in the voluntary and flexible community, it will ensure from nearness the provision of municipal services according to the particularity of each territory. The project, led by the Maresme County Council and the Department of Interior, is new, after three years of intense technical work and political negotiation, as a pilot test in Catalonia to give response to the needs expressed by the mayors of the Maresmen. And, in the words of the Deputy Councillor of Services of the Municipalities of the County Council of Maresme and Mayor of Teià, Andreu Bosch, this scholarship will be a reference to Catalonia and will help the municipalities improve citizen security. Counselor, can you explain to us in more detail how you will define this pilot test and what benefits will it bring to the meetings involved? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.33.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.34.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, too, Congresswoman. Indeed, in Catalonia, of the Police of Catalonia, a forty_per_cent practically are local police, and there are many problems that have the joints linked to local police, especially in order to the time that they generate and the workload that generates them, particularly to the small municipalities, the contracting of agents. And, also, a problem that is then generated is that, once the formation of these agents is done, many times there is a mobilization and move on to another together, causing in small assemblies that all that effort is left in nothing, because they are left without local agents. Therefore, from this perspective, what we have looked at is to do a pilot test, effectively, to the County Council of Maresme, with voluntary association of all those gatherings that have wanted, the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, the department, through the DGAS, to make a joint call led by the district council, betray the work, therefore, of the contract and all the effort that is generated in particular to smaller gatherings throughout the selection process. I, moreover, to have, whenever necessary, agents available to be able to either contract them or strengthen them. Therefore, this effort that has been made and this work that has been done, that concludes with this pilot proof, our intention is that, once it is practical, try to generalize it at the country's side. What generates and what contributes to this project is more agile and faster; to be able to access, effectively, more agents and, therefore, at times of difficulty..., especially in the summer, because at the summer period, being able to dispose of more agents avoids the joints having to do the process, and above all also unifies criteria and demands in the contracting of agents. Therefore, it is an idea that the intention is to extend it to the country's side, in the march, also, of the reform of the law of police, in which, in its march, to address many projects, and in particular the police of Catalonia in the relationship between Mossos d'Esquadra and local police, in order to topics such as mobility, training, wages, professional career, disciplinary regime, which is a historical claim of the assemblies of this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.35.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on public policies in order to combat the wage gap and to eradicate gender inequalities in the world of work. [[Asks the Government about public policies to fight the wage gap and eradicate gender inequalities in the world of work]] [[310-00204/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.36.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone; good morning, counselor. We want to talk about the wage bracket taking advantage of the report that the Business and Work Councillor and yourself, as the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms, presented on this issue only a few days ago. In fact, the denialists of the patriarchal system will say that in the agreements there is no place for women to charge less for the same work. The patriarchal system's negators would deny that the wage bracket is a reality. But fortunately we get to the 21st century with data. Science, in fact, has never pleased the negationists – of any question; also of this – but we have the data. And that is why, precisely, they do not like it that you have given in the perspective of genera, so as not to bring out all these questions. And the data they tell us is that women almost cover six thousand euros less the middle year than men. And it's true, they don't say it; they don't say we have to charge six thousand euros less than men, but that doesn't mean it doesn't happen. The laws of differences from other times are more obscure to us. We have drawings of laws that want to deal with the insecurities of a model that violates the right women for the fact that it is. And despite everything, despite the fact that the feminist movement is stronger than ever in the street, despite the fact that the laws employ us, despite the fact that the governments correct the doubles, we have a wage. If it were as simple as displaying all these questions in one of the convenient ones, then we would already have. The data also tells us that every year we're tanking a little bit of this Brittany, but it's so small that the feeling is that we've been stuck in the last few years. And we don't want this slowness, but move on. Not to mention the great crises, as they derive from the current pandemic, which also make all these figures stand together. If we look, moreover, at the cross-sectional perspective of data, it cannot be obviated that the feminization of the poor and the under-retention of female labour have a direct impact on this wage bracket. And before this situation, we want to ask who the government's proposals are in this matter, taking into account all these questions: the data, the inertia of later years, the consequences of the pandemic and the willingness to transform a more equal and fairer labour market. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.37.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.38.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. As you pointed out, the Bretxa has declined in the last few years and is the lowest in the historical series started in 2008, but a Bretxa of 20,6_per_cent is still an intolerable data. These are six thousand euros per year of average difference, five hundred euros per month, to put it another way. It's like she's half out of the women we're done collecting until the end of the year. And in this sense, from the government we fight it from different fronts. In the case of the Department of Enterprise and Work, of a band, with specific policies within the framework of active employment policies. More than 43_million are dedicated to specific programs to promote women's employability. Also, the women feel a priority group, with different cross-cutting lines with more than 246_million euros, with a cross-cutting plan of the occupational policies and the equality plan of the same Occupational Service of Catalonia, and at the same time aging because the enterprises complete everything that the law establishes in the matter of equal policies. And, in this sense, in the past year, the year 2021, the Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia has carried out around four hundred activities related to discrimination on grounds of sex, assimilation, conciliation policies, equality plans, and there has been an increase of 282_per_cent in the number of infringements. From the Department of Equality and Feminism we also develop a series of activities. We know that many women work involuntarily part-time or leave the labour market after maternity. This is why the TimexCures program seeks to expand these cure services for less than zero to fourteen years. We also have companies at our disposal, to facilitate the development of equality plans and the wage register tool, these tools to be able to accompany them, making advice– more than two_ thousand advices made in 2021. And, at the same time, we are developing a methodology for the valuation of work places to revalue precisely those most feminine jobs, many of them linked to the sector of cures, which have been historically underprivileged. We will also continue to demand from the Spanish Government the signature of the 189th convention of the ILO, of domestic workers, because we know that much better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.39.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.40.0	...conditions of work in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.41.0	...will advise. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the school calendar for the 2022-2023 course]] [[310-00206/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the school calendar 2022-2023. The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, you announced a few days ago an advance of the school calendar of your own course; a decision that, if it had been set up in another way, we could appreciate positively, but that it took without the slightest dialogue or agreement with the educational community: neither with the directions of the center nor with the teachers' unions nor with the family associations, nor with the school agreed nor with the school council of Catalonia, when you know that it is preceptive. Counselor, does it seem to you that a model of governance based on taxation and lack of dialogue is what the Catalan education system needs at these times?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.43.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.44.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mrs Niubó, has been debating this for many years, and we have taken the decision with all the information available. In fact, so many years ago that the same school board has issued, it has made the last four reports that say that summer vacations are too long and that the school year should be advanced. There are also reports from the Bofill Foundation, there are reports from the Federation of Pedagogical Renewal Movements and we have had conversations with everyone. Therefore, what we do as a government is make a decision where we have the 100% consensus that this is a good measure for the student – all the decisions of the Department of Education must have as the protagonist our student. And, therefore, we make a decision – we are legitimized as the government to do so –, we communicate it to the management team and we communicate it to the citizenry, and this is fully compatible with the debate. We are from the territories, we are from the countries, at European level, that later we start the school year. And, therefore, this is a very good measure for the student, because what it does is..., basically, shorten the disconnection time and, above all, above all, it is a measure of fairness for the vulnerable student; for the vulnerable student who does not have the same access to activities outside the school environment; for the vulnerable student who will have more days of feeding grants. And you're fixed if it's a positive measure, with everyone's consent, that more than five hundred centers, about five hundred centers that are within the best educational opportunity plan..., many gatherings and many local councils are already opening the schools by September to give an answer to this need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.45.0	To answer the question, you have the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.46.0	Look, counselor, you have lost the educational community; an educational community that is exhausted by so many months and months managing the pandemic. And in this context, which has very tense educational centres, which know that, moreover, the proper course must deploy the new educational curricula of LOMLOE and which will require more training and preparation on the part of the teachers, you make a decision as important as this, which, I repeat, could be positive, but it does so in a totally unilateral way. And all the unions, counselor, all of them without exception, have asked him to resign. You've got five days on call, and the very beginning of the course is at risk. But the consensus against him went further. The families have also told you that this is not the way things are done, that you cannot sell an advance of the school year as a conciliation measure if you then link it to a compacted day during the whole of September that is not necessary, that generates more inequalities – because the concertee has already told you that it will do the same time as usual – and that, moreover, it harms those families with less resources and that in total it involves a loss of teaching hours. You've got enough, counselor, I've stopped improvising. One day you say that extracurriculars are paid to families, after you say that it will be financed by your own government and that this has a cost of 12_million. I'm telling you, how are you gonna pay for this? If he makes a transfer to the joints, if I run another one, if they're to be the proper educational centers to do it... And with what criteria? If you cover September, why don't you cover June? Therefore, we tell him that I stopped burning the school, that I dialogue and agree with the educational community, and that this is the least and arrogant attitude. Also, let me tell you that the educational transformation began before you did. And another thing: the very day that the President of the Generality brings to make an announcement think of better ones that also supposes better in pedagogical terms, that poses solutions to problems that the education system has, such as the lack of places of professional training, of places of school bressol, sufficient resources to deploy the inclusive educational model or abandonment or segregation. You are part of a government, councillor, that requires dialog, but does not practice Catalonia endins. What can we say, counselor, before this situation that you have created and with which we have an important problem? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.47.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.48.0	Congresswoman, what I can tell you is that it's more than just reality. We, as the Education Advisor, have no one left. Dialeg, consent with everyone, as we have demonstrated since the first day this legislature began. It is a measure that does not affect workers' labor rights – it does not affect them. Our teachers will do the same class hours and go to school the same days. It's a measure that we all agree on what. And so now we're going to do the debate, as expected, to adjust its way. We have time to do it. And it's a measure that benefits families, too, because it guarantees 100_per_cent reconciliation. Families will be free to do the same time in September as the rest of the school year. Therefore, dialog, consent, we do not need anyone, we make a decision. This is fully compatible with all the information available and necessary, this is fully compatible with the debate, and it is a measure of educational transformation with fairness, and it is a pedagogical measure, above all a pedagogical measure for the student... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.49.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about educational investments and the future of the Cultural Academy of Llobregat Hospital (Barcelona)]] [[310-00207/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the educational investments and the future of the Cultural Academy of Llobregat Hospital. The question is posed by Mr David Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.50.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, we're talking about the Academy of Culture, an educational project of proximity that has seventy years of history at the edge of the Torrassa; more than three hundred families that are affected and that see at risk the educational project of their children, and twenty-seen places of work of academic workers. In May 2021 the Department of Education and Ownership, with the mediation of the assembly and of the Federation of Education of Workers Commissions, of the Mr. Polished Manel, reached an agreement to ensure the continuity of the center during a further course. This agreement also collected the department's commitment to start the process so that the Culture Academy can be integrated into the public school network, thus ensuring the education of students and the current faculty. Mr. Counselor, what are the reasons for changing the criteria of the Council on the Academy of Culture? What do you think you're doing to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.51.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep González-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.52.0	Congressman, there hasn't been a change in criteria. Let's get to the point. Who closes the Academy of Culture is the owner because he disagrees with the owner. From the Department of Education we don't tank the Academy of Culture, and from the Department of Education we don't bring him to the Academy of Culture. And we're doing what we said we'd do from day one, which is: a hundred per cent commitment to incorporate Culture Academy into the public network. But to do so – and that will be understood by everyone – they must meet and we must respond to the requirements of the decree. And, therefore, we have explored all the possibilities, all the lives and all the options for such a view as to give an answer, complementing the law decree, to this integration. So, as always, we give an answer to what we said we would do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.53.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.54.0	All right, counselor. Miri, first of all, I would like to thank the presence in this hemicicle of Vanessa Iodate, who is the mother of a pupil, and Yolanda Manero, who is the mother and master of this center. Thank you so much for being among us. Miri, counselor. There's one thing I can't say, which I'm sure he'll start saying in a moment, and it's that the assembly didn't do anything in this case. Miri, the assembly..., in a few moments there will be approved, in the Ple de l'assemblement, a motion to guarantee the schooling of the students, the maintenance of the places of the teaching staff and the initiation of the procedures to build a new center to the solars of the Mas street ; solar yielded for the assembly of the year 2018, Mr Councillor. All the groups have subscribed to this motion for support for the educational community – all of them –, less Republican Left of Catalonia, which has not done so because of its fault. The joint was offered to buy the lands of the current academy. Now you're saying you didn't know anything about it. The assembly committed itself to reaching consensus among all groups so that you can join the public network. We've talked to the families, we've talked to everyone. Look, counselor, I'm sure the whole assembly must be wrong, surely the property is wrong, surely the archbishop's also wrong, the mayor, the families, the unions... Everyone's wrong and nobody's doing it right. But there's another possibility that you're the one who's not doing things right. You, every time you have a teel, it turns into conflict. Counselor, I ask you again: what do you intend to do to solve the theme of the Academy of Culture? And if you don't know what to do, please... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.55.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.56.0	What I think I'm doing is what I've always done, which is, when the requirements of a law decree are met, integrate and incorporate a concerted center or a municipal center into the network of centers of the Department of Education. And that's what I think I'm doing. But the conditions of the decree are not fulfilled because we don't have buildings, we don't have a building. The building does not meet the conditions to make a public offer. And so... and so we've found ourselves in many situations before. We have found ourselves with fifteen centres, with about fifteen centres where we have not been able to make this integration, also in front of the building. Because we need – and the decree says so – that the building gives the answer to be able to make a public offer on the conditions that are established. The law decree is not intended to rescue the private school agreed; it is intended to increase the public offer. And that's what we're gonna do. In case we can't complete the law decree, what we're gonna do is give an answer. With this increase in seats, we'll be doing a new school. All the students, the families... we, the Department of Education, guarantee and accompany the families so that all the children of the school can go en bloc to a new public school. All the Institute's students will be able to go in bulk to a new Institute. We won't increase... not a new institute, an existing institute. We will not increase the rates in the city, and we will accompany the masters who are linked to the title and we will keep them old. The assembly has yielded three solars in twelve years that do not meet the conditions. We're always on the side of families and on the side of infants. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.57.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the decisions of the Department of Interior concerning the actions of the Squadron Mosses. [[Ask the Government about the decisions of the Department of Interior regarding the actions of the Squadron Mosses]] [[310-00208/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ramon Espadaler, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.58.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, on February 14, in a radio interview in Catalonia Radio, you announced that the Department of Interior would not apply some of the requirements of the Organic Law 4/2015, of March 30, protecting citizen security. We would like in his parliamentary ratification of this announcement, which generated a headline: "Listen, the department will not complete part of this law. And if so, exactly explain to us what it is based on and for which reasons and for which are these requirements that the department is not willing to comply, to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.59.0	To answer, you have the word of Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Counsellor d'Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.60.0	President... Deputy, like all administrations, like all institutions, what is laid down are criteria in the compliment of laws and in the application of standards, as does the tax agency, as do the assemblies, as does the own taxation. And the criteria that we have decided to apply are, first of all, to ensure that the compliment of the fundamental rights, that the exercise of the fundamental rights will be prioritised to other criteria; it is to say, that the application of the type that sets the law of citizen security is informed and seen to the light that establishes the compliment of the fundamental rights, as established by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. Also, to separate what is the instruction of the raising of acts, because we understand that it is a basic criterion in the exercise of rights. And, thirdly, when a sanction applies to someone for having done some kind of crime, I went to that particular person and not to the collection in its conjunction that organizes a mobilization. It is in this sense the application of criteria at the time of setting and applying a standard. And this is in the light of which the European Court establishes, in the light of which the proper Constitutional Court establishes and, obviously, endorsed by the General Court and also by the legal services of the proper department. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.61.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.62.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, no one questions the exercise of the fundamental rights – absolutely – of course, and less our parliamentary group. But I don't know if he's aware of the message he gave and that he just, in a way, repeats, more carefully than he did on the radio the other day, of the message he just gave of police disapproval. You said literally..., you say: "Look, the police already know that they will do the acts, but in any case they know that they did not drift into dispatches. That's what he just said with good words now. This is a delegitimization of police work. But it's got another side, this coin; it's got another side, this coin. He told another part of you to work, in this case not in uniform, to the Directorate General of Administration of Security, that it does not fulfill a precept that establishes a law with which..., it can be as questionable as you are, and that there have been parliamentary proceedings, therefore, in case this law is to be changed, but what you cannot do is to say: "Listen, look, these precepts in this way we will not complete them. You, Mossos – perhaps because you don't want to tell them – I say to the Mossos – "they do the acts. Perhaps because he is not going to give by writing: "They listen, they do not do acts, therefore, of certain subjects or episodes. But I'm telling you, General Directorate of Security Administration: "Look, they're not transmitting them. We're asking ourselves, counselor, how you're going to give it, this instruction. Will you donate it for writing? He'll give it to you by radio, how did he do the other day? He will call the Director General and say to her, "Listen, this is not... We were talking about very serious things. And what if a clerk of your department decides, in compliment of the law... because a clerk is not obliged to complete in any way, therefore, an instruction that proceeds from the compliment of the law. What will he do if someone else is not willing to do this? Look, counselor, we're asking you in a very clear way that you don't put in either the Mosses or the rest of your department's work in the fabric of obeying..., or obeying the government or completing the law. We ask you a very simple thing: complaise as to rule the law and we will not complicate the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.63.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.64.0	Member, we will establish criteria for the central judicial office of the Generality and for the legal services of the department and which, moreover, are endorsed by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. But do you know why we have to do this? We have to do this because there is a biting law that neither you – nor you –, who committed themselves to repealing it, have repealed it. [[Greetings.]] And that's the reality. But the one I'm most surprised at... [[Greetings.]] What surprises me most, honestly, is not that I have not repealed it, it is that you are the main guarantors who exercise and apply the law biting with the maximum rigidity, which is with iron. [[Greetings.]] You can't hear – you can't hear. Do you know what this is? What you said was more close to Orbán's Hungary than to a democratic regime. And now they're asking us to follow the ones that apply it with the maximum rigidity. It's absolutely... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.65.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the suspicions of extra-limitations in the exercise of governmental and administrative functions by the Department of Interior in the application of laws]] [[310-00205/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in full on suspicions of extra-limitations in the exercise of the government and administrative functions of the Department of Interior in the application of laws. The question is put by Mr Matías Alonso, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.66.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Elena, do you think your department has any jurisdictional functions entrusted to it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.67.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.68.0	Of course not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.69.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.70.0	Yes, counselor, the successive separatist governments that we have been suffering for too long are subverting with their political action the higher values of our social and democratic rule of law. Any government that wants to call itself democratic is obliged to direct its government action to ensure coexistence in accordance with the rules laid down in the current democratic order. A democratic government must govern for all, safeguarding the rights and freedoms of all, and must do so with scrupulous respect for the jurisdictional role of judges and courts, as well as for the functions of parliamentary control and legislative impulse, the highest representation of which is held by the General Courts and which in the autonomous sphere of competence of the Generalitat exercises this Parliament. The Government of the Generalitat has for years exercised a jurisdictional function that has not been entrusted to it at all, nor has any other executive power of the State entrusted to it. You have decided to interpret case law as appropriate and to apply existing laws which directly affect the exercise of the public security competence entrusted to the Corps de Mossos d'Esquadra. You undermine the higher values of the rule of law by reinterpreting sentences and applying the laws to the letter, following the spurious interests of your political agenda, which seeks to keep active the damn process with which you want to impose a model of society that is the antithesis of democracy; a task doomed to failure, but in which you put all your efforts both your Government and the parties that support you, embarrased as you are in demonstrating who is most worthy of flying the separatist flag. A spurt that is enthusiastically joined by the President herself of this Parliament with absolute lack of respect for her institutional and representative role of the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. Shame on you. Stop allowing arbitrary cuts in the Meridian as they continue to do on a daily basis. Stop undermining the authority of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. Stop reinterpreting the case law. Apply the laws and punish those who defy the authority of the agents. They defend the rights and freedoms of all. Rule for all or go away at once and leave the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.71.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.72.0	Congressman, I want to start by saying that if Catalonia is patenting this government, it's for the will of Catalans and Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Not because no one has invented it, it's because of the will of Catalans and Catalans. Miri, I have said this before and I repeat: all administrations set criteria for interpreting standards. I do the tax agency, I do the prosecutor's office, I do the National Institute of Social Security... I do all the administrations. And what we have set out are interpretation criteria in the light of which the Constitutional Court establishes in relation to the fundamental rights and the European Court of Human Rights. And it is established that a person when peacefully exercising a fundamental right... is to be interpreted as an infringer who guarantees the exercise of these fundamental rights. And this is established by the Constitutional Court, which has few revolutionaries and anti-systems. And it's that way of explaining and it's that way; it's not just for this counselor, it's also for the lawyers and the legal services of the Interior Department. There is another criterion, which is that until now it applied that when someone in a mobilization had a criminal practice or committed a fault, the organizer of the mobilization was accused. And this is not supported by case law, because it needs to apply to the person who practices it. And then another element, which is to separate the instruction from the raising of acts. They are criteria, all of them, endorsed by the lawyers and by the electorate of the Generality. But what he was undermining, which you say, is what limits the work of Squadron Mosses is when, for example, you and your friends, when the Interior Ministry sets up a new anti-terrorist plan for Catalonia..., ai, in Spain, and says for the first time that whoever will carry out the investigations is Squadron Mosses, you rise up, protest and say that this is a discharge of responsibility on the part of the political leaders of the State. You have a very clear ideology: you are against the Mossos d'Esquadra and against the competitions that this Parliament has. He's always been like this and he's still feeling it today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.73.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the lack of birth. [[Ask the Government about the lack of birth]] [[310-00197/13.]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.74.0	Madam Counsellor, how do you intend to address the lack of birth in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.75.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.76.0	Thank you, President. As this question was already asked and we answered it to the previous dismemberment, I hope you will formulate exactly your question so that I can answer them properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.77.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.78.0	Thank you, President. Look, I'm going to explain to you a little bit... in Catalonia, the birth rate is shrinking every year. We've been going down at birth for 15 years. Fifteen years ago the birth in Catalonia was ninety-thousand births and now we're barely sixty-thousand. The reduction has been thirty_y_three_per_cent in fifteen years. And you deny the problem and encourage it, criminalize pregnancy and hate families. They do not work for job stability and access to housing and promote abortion. In Catalonia, about twenty thousand abortions are performed per year. At this rate, there will be more abortions in Catalonia than births. And this is a drama and a collective responsibility. You, far from seeking alternatives to drama, work to expand the pharmacological abortion from nine to twelve weeks, because the woman who wants to abort is because she is pregnant and very distressed. And you spend, for example, more than EUR 90 million on feminist indoctrination policies, but you are unable to support these pregnant and distressed women. Having children has to be possible and in Catalonia today it is increasingly difficult, because there are serious social and economic difficulties; lack of social and business recognition of this great work of fatherhood, of motherhood; lack of access to stable work and to decent housing for the family, or lack of family stability and regard this, the family, as a fundamental axis of our society. That is why the solution is clear: to recognize the problem, which you do not do, of lack of birth and the serious consequences of this demographic situation; to be aware of the need to foster this birth in order to sustain our society, our nation, our prosperity and our identity; and that the administrations, also the Catalan one, because they have competences, take political and fiscal measures to promote this birth and that this is a priority. Since VOX we have presented a series of fiscal policies and measures that we have proposed in this House that you have consistently rejected. And what's worse: they don't provide any solution or recognize the problem. And I remind you, Counsellor: a society that does not protect its children is a society in crisis, and a society without children is a dead society. Step aside and step aside. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.79.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.80.0	Well, as I was saying, Christmas politics are close to authoritarian governments. Franco did this, they're doing it now on the continent of Europe Poland and Hungary. And, more than that, let them fail. It is political that they believe that the birth of the population is at the service of a political project, concretely of a national patriotic project based on male, LGBTI-fóbica and racist. But on the other hand, democratic governments do not believe that the birth of the people is in the service of the government, but rather that what it is to promote socioeconomic conditions so that people can freely decide their vital projects, enter them, if they want to, if they want to, if they want to, have creatures. And these are precisely the challenges we face from the government. And I'll give you some examples that we've already explained here. So, in the field of work, as it was a while ago, women and young people are priority groups of the government's shoc plan, with this great investment in active employment policies. In the case of habitat, this protected habitat reserve of twenty-i-five_per_cent for persons under thirty-five years of age in the lloger habitat constructed by the Government has also been introduced. In the matter of reconciliation of family and work life, we move on to the right to the cures as to the right of citizenship, with the TimexCures program, which I just explained a moment ago, with the gradual gratuity of the whole phase from zero to three years, starting this course with I2. And yes, you can exploit their heads, but it is compatible to defend the right of women to abhor with, at the same time, within the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights, to extend access to assisted human reproduction services. I think it's perfectly compatible. And I tell them another thing to finish: the data they present is false; there is no demographic decrease, I did not hold the Institute of Statistics or the United Nations. What bothers you is the contribution of migratory flows to the population's growth. And that's not new, it's all over Europe. And what we're going to do from the government is work for a socially cohesive society, that no one's left behind and where the racist and xenophobic policies that you're planting never fit in. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.81.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the application of prison competitions. [[Ask the Government about the application of prison competitions]] [[310-00199/13]] The question is put by Mr Sergio Macián, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.82.0	Mrs Ciuro, do you believe that the Government of the Generalitat exercises its prison powers in a fair and neutral manner?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.83.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.84.0	Thank you, President. Effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.85.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.86.0	On 4 December 2020, the Supreme Court issued nine orders denying the third degree to the nine coupsmen of the trial, sentenced to up to thirteen years'imprisonment for sedition offences, as well as other serious crimes. Only forty days later, his department again granted, knowing of his injustice and through article 100.2 of the Prison Rules, a third de facto degree to the nine convicted persons of the trial, so that they could participate in the electoral campaign of 14 February 2021, which was described by the Office of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, in its memory of 2021, as a clear fraud of the law of the Catalan Prison Administration – i.e. of his department – i as it could not otherwise be, the Supreme Court estimated the remedies of the Prosecutor's Office and the nine convicted persons of the trial returned to prison, where they had lived as king, with privileges and foresights that did not have other inmates, even the unworthy pardons. Mrs. Ciuró, her department, not content with improperly excusing her party partners and the government, the coup politicians, is also dedicated to bringing out of jail the largest corrupt in the recent history of Catalonia, one of the looters of the Palau de la Música, Mr. Montull; a looting of 23_million_euros, destined, among other things, to pay commissions to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, quarry of the current leaders of Junts. And, of course, justice has re-amended the plan: the prison surveillance judge, according to the prosecutor's office, has revoked the third degree to Mr Montull, because the convicted person has not served a quarter of the sentence, because there are no medical reasons to justify it, according to the forensic doctor – apparently, his feet are a little slow to walk, but his hands are very agile to keep stealing – and because he has not returned virtually a cent of the 23_million_euro stolen. Mrs. Ciuró, your department makes a tortherous use of prison competitions for the benefit of your friends, and brings out of jail thugs and chorizos when it suits you. Therefore, since VOX, we demand the immediate return of prison powers to the state, because a disloyal government such as the Government of the Generalitat and which protects corrupt thieves cannot have the keys to the prison. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.87.0	To answer, you have the word "Justice Counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.88.0	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, the only question that can endanger the Catalan prison system, which is robust and which is a model of success, are total discourses and speeches that are basically used in demagoguery and loaded with falsehoods. We have a robust prison system, which scrupulously complements the laws and directives that are required to be able to give prison benefits, which in the end and at the end is what we pursue: rehabilitation as a function of the Catalan prison system. We want to promote the rehabilitation of people through concessions of freedom, when they touch and follow the precepts and dispositions of the courts of prison vigilance. Because there is no better way to strengthen the society that encourages people to make a reinsertion paused and calm when they are close to them after completing the sentence. We don't believe in allowing people to take more than the time they need in prison. And, in fact, you already advance it from the Department of Justice for which we will bet firmly is for the execution of alternative penal measures and for restorative justice as the best system to ensure the reintegration of the trapped people who have been missing in a society. Why, you know what? Prisons are a necessary and essential tool of the system. We fly, des del Departament de Justicia, to put them in the center. Because just as we have schools or residences, we also have pressures, and the vocation is, of the entire prison community, to tend to these pressures and the whole community to work for the benefit of this reintegration, constantly forming the professional penitentiaries; forming, occupying and inserting the persons taken; forming in the dignity and dignity of the spaces, because obsolete prisons and pressures do not help the finality of the reintegration. Because we are a single prison community and the compromise of the professionals working for the benefit of the people who have been taken and the government's commitment to maintaining proper space and renewing and being able to reform those who are most deficient are, to be sure, three pots of the same drum that support a robust system, which is already advancing the best successful reintegration in Europe. A system that I claim as the Councillor of Justice, which I thank for allowing me to talk about from this Chamber and which, therefore, I recommend to you that for the benefit of this one, therefore, they do less demagogic and are in the case of what is actually done and not of this demagic that they defend.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.89.0	Time's up...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.90.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.91.0	...will advise. [[Asks the Government about the requests and proposals of the educational community]] [[310-00201/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the requests and proposals of the educational community. The question is posed by Mr Carles Riera, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. You have to agree with me that strengthening and enhancing public education in Catalonia is not possible without counting on the educational community, and still less promoting division and confrontation between families and teachers, and that it is totally impossible against teachers and their union representation. On the other hand, counselor, you and your department have long since failed to engage in dialogue and negotiation with the educational community, and now, with a community still very strained by the overexercise carried out before the pandemic and without responding to union demands and proposals, raise new demands and change us without any dialogue or consent. Counselor, do you think you're listening to the educational community? Will you respond to your demands and proposals? Will it dialogue and negotiate with the unions and the MUCE, and thus build a great consensus for public education in Catalonia, which universally and fully guarantees the right to inclusive education and, at times, the rights of teachers and teachers?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.93.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.94.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Riera, we always count on and count on the educational community, always at the expense of teachers and always at the service of the students. And that's what we've done since the first day. We'll listen, we'll listen and we'll negotiate; we'll negotiate everything, always, whatever it takes. I'll give you some examples. Because it's easy to say... the 'nposo examples of the iniciators of this legislature. The first one I did as a counselor is to address the 5,470 direct teams and 120,000 teachers, with a very complete question, because you tell us, because we share in how we can help them as the Education Department, as they can be more useful as the Education Advisor. And that's what we did to me, to ask them directly and, from here, to be able to take the best decisions with the best information. We have also, for the first time, taken part in the curriculum process. There had never been any participatory process in relation to the curriculum. We've done streaming with all directions. I'm finding out about the management teams. I find..., when I go to a city I find with all the direct teams to listen to as many directions as possible, from children's to post-compulsory. I find myself with a student; I find myself with a student without the presence of the management team and the faculty, so that there is no filter and they can express themselves freely. And, therefore, what we do is, always, more information and take decisions at the service of the student and at the side of our masters. And that's what we've done with the school calendar and that's what we've done at the time of opening the schools for the cove. At the time of opening the schools for the cove we also did this. How to govern we take decisions and then we consent and agree on how, in the way you need, listening to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.95.0	To answer that question, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.96.0	Counselor, in the last few days has been announced a wave of five days in defense of the dialog and negotiation and of the unitary demands of the teaching unions, in defense of a public education, inclusive and quality, and of the labor rights of the faculty, ending with the details still not reversed since the year 2010. On the other hand, several trade unions of teachers and students have also announced a vacancy, March 23, in defense of the public school in Catalan, the linguistic immersion and against the application of the imposition of the twenty-i-fivec_per_cent of the teaching in Spanish language. Counselor, it's a mistake to pretend to impose a calendar and curriculum change without dialogue or negotiation with the educational community. It is not possible to enhance public school, inclusive and of quality without the stability of the staff involved and work, without the download of reports, without reversing the details and without guaranteeing the model of linguistic immersion. With the educational community, we defend the right to live, study and work fully in catalá in a public, universal, free, inclusive and quality education system that respects the rights of teachers and workers... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.97.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.98.0	So I'll say it again, huh? We don't impose anything – we don't impose anything. What we do is we decide and then we debate. We all agree with what: we all agree with progress. And, therefore, what we do – and we are in time – is, now, discussing how to incorporate all the better proposals. For what you were commenting on the waves, obviously, we respect the vague right. Now, I don't understand the format of vagaries to protest for the català, when what we have to do is protest against the courts, which are the ones that cause this situation. We, like the education department, have done what we have done is answer to the court that it is the education department to which they are to address, not to our educational centers. What we've done is push a plan to further promote the use of català. What we're doing is a new law that gives us... that confirms this model of Catalan school. I, therefore – and so much so! – in view of the coming course we will incorporate many measures, some trade union measures asked for many years ago, and we will continue working with them in order to incorporate as much as possible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.99.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the reduction of the waiting lists of the dependency care system. [[Ask the Government about the reduction of the waiting lists of the dependency care system]] [[310-00209/13]] The question is put by Mr David Saldoni, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.100.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, the last Sunday was a celebration of the General Council of the Social Services, an organ of participation and information of the Government in which the various departments of the Generality take part; business associations, trade unions, user associations, and the municipalist entities of our country, as well as professional colleges, also take part. And, therefore, it is a space in which we can debate and talk about the main challenges we have in the social sphere of our country. It's been replenished – and I'd like to call it back – that the department's assumption for this year has increased by 897 million in relation to 2020. A total of 3,800, forty-fivec_per_cent of which is intended for personal autonomy. In Catalonia, which we have an over-enveloping index of 16.9, which we have seen as it increased with respect to the year 2003, which was eleven, and the year 81, which was a six, we have seen as the attention to the great people in our country require special attention. And we also see how there has been, in this case, a contribution of 27 million European funds to the transformation of the information systems of the social services, a task that allows, in this case, to automate the download of electronic documentation, precisely to facilitate the task to the professionals of the social services, both of the Generality and of the assemblies of the whole country, which are actually overloaded in the task of preparing the PIAs in order to be able to advance in a good service and a good attention. In Catalonia, the year 2001, the dependency valuation service has 832,063 open shippers and 496,000 grade review shippers. This brings many problems to the professionals, who, as I said, have strained him. And, also, at the end of this, we have to put on the net that there has been an oversize of the effort to be made by the Government of Catalonia in relation to the initial prediction that there was in the law of dependence. A service that has generated waiting lists in valuations, but also in payment, because there were, in this case, very high suspense terms, at some incomprehensible moments. Can you tell us, Counselor, what changes you have planned in your department so that you can just lower the waiting lists to get the benefit of non-professional caregivers? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.101.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.102.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP, you said it yourself, the list of people waiting for some kind of performance, so Catalonia is very high. And the generality's assumptions also set a large part of its premise to be able to reduce these waiting lists. The law of dependence, in its article 18, says that one of the benefits that can be long-term is care through a non-professional caregiver, a person close to the family, a family member with whom he has an affective relationship. As well as you and, more than that, you know, these benefits are produced through IAPs, individual care plans, and are determined through social services. In 2012, the Government of the State predicted that this help could have a suspension of up to two years. Therefore, once the person was held back until they were granted assistance, the Administration had a suspension, an adjournment for two years. The year 2017, it was tried to reduce this two-year term and it was reduced to split_months. But, as you said, we believe that it divides for dependent people, especially for large people, is a long time. And this afternoon, at the General Council of the Social Services, we announced that we ended this suspended period. This means that we have increased the budget by 17_million euros, the monthly match is 1,4_million euros, which will help reduce this waiting list, which at these times was quantified at 6,400 people. Therefore, for this year 2022, we will allocate 255_million euros for the benefit of the non-professional caregiver, who will reach the attention of 88,000 people. Because, as we say, we consider that the attention to the great people we have to be able to endure as quickly as possible. But it's true, the waiting lists with this measure, so we won't finish them. For this reason, from the department, to the band you were commenting on, which is the technological and digital transformation, we have incorporated a game under the assumption of 55_million euros for linked economic services or places. But above all, what we want is to devote part of the tickets – and they will also help us with European funds – to tele-assistance. Because what we want is the deinstitutionalization of the system. What we would like is for people to be able to marry their homes as long as possible, so that they can use these residential services in the measure only strictly necessary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.103.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the Aina project. [[Ask the Government about the Aina project]] [[310-00210/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.104.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President Puigneró, just today a week ago you were able to present in Aina company, a project to guarantee the survival of català in the digital era, which has surpassed all possible expectations and which has put the Catalan language, in linguistic emergence from a long time ago, to the fine half of everything. Two hours before this presentation and the official launch, the web already counted fifty_ thousand vue logs and forty_ thousand validations. Give the view as the concept to advance and strengthen us as the country, give the view by recording it with the reading of phrases and accepting or refusing recordings made for others, give the view to help learn català. A unique, rich, unique català that speaks of Salses to Guardamar and Fraga to Alguer. A full range of nuances that we need to make feel and that we need to teach Aina to know how our language works, beyond the syntactic and morphological aspects that define it. Aina needs to know that one day someone may need to buy red mitjons, but if I do, I'll need red socks. Aina must know that the richness of our language is valuable heritage and that, beyond the dividing lines that some want to impose, the Catalan Countries speak a common language that is called Catalan. Following the thread of history, by Aina Moll and Norma, passing through Queta, we arrive at Aina, artificial intelligence. May Aina follow us, Vice-President, because certainly, at this time of giving value to the words, they can explain that with dying "Aina, to the Jew, is" eina, as the teachers of language Josep Panisello and Joan Beltran showed in the manual Cruïlla and Aines. Because they already knew that it was necessary to explain the north-western model of our language without predicting that one day we would have to think of this new linguistic space that is about, that of artificial intelligence, with visual assistants, automatic translators or conversational agents. This digital moment that we all need is a great challenge and also a new opportunity for the català. Because our language is your voice, from together we encourage the citizenry to participate in it from every reason. And we want to ask you, Vice President, how you value the inn on the way out of this very important project. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.105.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.106.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Indeed, many reports so tell us, the català is in linguistic emergence. And, look, in fact, yesterday at the first meeting of the National Lingua Pact, which I was able to honour – with the President and the Councillor of Culture – to be present, I also did the same diagnosis. Certainly, a find where we found them missing, Mrs. Albiach and Mr. Illa. I know their party representatives came, but, man, this is an act that if they want to be... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they were. So I didn't see her, Mrs. Albiach, excuse me, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I think you are. And, therefore, if we want to build these consensuses that we made in the 1980s, where we built a box of tools with TV3, with the linguistic immersion of the school, essential tools to repair, after forty years of dictatorship, the language to our country, in this box of tools now we have to add a new tool, nine tools, and one of them is Aina. In this sense, the campaign we started a week ago has been a success, it has exceeded all expectations. We're already carrying more than 250,000 recorded voices. Because an idea is coming up: other minority languages that are also doing this process rewind and have recollected or recollected in a week, all together, around fifteen_ thousand registrations. So let's go on the right path. In this sense, I also want to announce that we will take in the next weeks a tour of Aina for other Catalan speaking territories, from Valencia to the Balearic Islands, Catalonia North, etcetera, precisely with the will that we have that..., in fi, like..., we all know how important they were projects such as the PuntCAT or the Catalan Viquipedia to position the català on the internet. We also need the català, the machines, the devices, the internet to understand us and talk to us in català. This is the objective we have with the Aina project and we hope, therefore, that, Members and Members, they will also help us to make it bigger. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.107.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the planned actions in relation to sexual and reproductive health. [[Ask the Government about planned actions related to sexual and reproductive health]] [[310-00211/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Titon Laïlla, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.108.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, if a learning about this pandemic is precisely the importance of strengthening public health structures, such as public health, once more, then it takes a central part of health care. In fact, if we pay for the 2008 crisis, then the WHO, in a conference in Oslo in 2009, said that one of the things that had to be pointed out in any economic crisis is also precisely those assumptions that make reference to service where cost/effectiveness are more powerful, and one of them, already at that time, was precisely public salvation. In this sense, we are aware of the effort that has been made in these last assumptions, where the increase in the public salvation assumption is almost seventy-five_per_cent. We understand, too, that it is not only a presupposition intended to enhance all those aspects of epidemiological intelligence that have been so uplifting in these last days, but also..., with a much broader, more holistic look than public salvation means precisely, which speaks not only of the climate emergency, it does not only speak of occupational salvation, it does not only speak of addictions, it does not only speak of vaccinations. Certainly, we have increased with two cows, namely meningococ B in the infant population and herpes zóster in the adult population, in this own vaccine calendar. But in this line, with this wide look not only to put public salvation, but general salvation in all policies, I believe that this pandemic has also put us in store for this much more transversal and much more global look. And it is from this perspective that public salvation is understood with two great pots that are central, that it is the promotion of health and healthy habits and lifestyles, and also the prevention of malalty. It is from this perspective that we are aware that the Government has also made an important effort in the field of sexual and reproductive salvation, and that it has precisely put a lot of emphasis on this last time, and we are also aware of the will to put it. Therefore, the question we wanted to ask you precisely, counselor, was how they intend to continue working in this very important and interesting area – which, in fact, has already come out of the realm of sexual and reproductive salvation from their department in this control session today as well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.109.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.110.0	President... MP, indeed, public health is a priority for this department and for the government. You ask me a lot especially about sexual and reproductive affective salvation, and in this sense you would want to make some nuances, some questions. The first is to thank the work done by all the drivers and all the professionals of this area. The second is to highlight and to note that sexual and reproductive affective salvation is a priority; the best of this salvation is one of the priorities of the health plan and it has been very directed to young and adolescent people. From this point of view, they make a series of actions, they offer a series of actions. The first, also dedicated to menstrual equity and, from this point of view, also thought for these younger people, their empowerment, from the information and also from the distribution of forty-thousand copies to third-year ESO students during this year 22. Another important element is precisely that of access and improvement of long-term contraception for young people, in this sense, more vulnerable, who may have, in some way, suffered some voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and from this point of view avoid unwanted embarrassment and also reduce non-volgutary IVEs. And also from this point of view, I would like to add as a third element the fact that I am also working with a new voluntary abortion protocol for pregnancy, with an extension of the pharmacological option, of the weeks in which it will be possible to abort pharmacologically, and also, as we have already discussed in this Chamber, the fact that we introduce the most suitable centers where women can reside this voluntary abortion, and that, therefore, the woman can choose which place, if she has decided to make this voluntary interruption of pregnancy, is her favorite. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.111.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Talls to the Avinguda Meridiana of Barcelona. [[Ask the Government about the heights of the meridian adventure in Barcelona]] [[310-00198/13]] The question is put by Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.112.0	A few days ago, after the perseverance of the neighbors of Meridiana, who were already tired of two years of cuts that have caused them, therefore, losses not only economic but also of quality of life, the Government decided to move the manifestation to another point. But the protesters have ignored, they have continued to cut down the Meridiana, and also with surprise invited as the President of this Parliament. I would like to know what opinion you have on this and what steps your department will take to enforce the government's orders.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.113.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.114.0	President... Congresswoman, the government does what it does is to ensure, through the police devices, that it is in addition to the decisions they make.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.115.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.116.0	Yes, you should try a little harder, Mr Elena, because I insist that the cuts are taking place. I was talking to him about those surprise guests. I meant the President of Parliament, but she was not the only one. Mrs Borràs was also accompanied by Fredi Bentanachs, who is the founder of the terrorist organization Terra Lliure. The truth is that between this one and Mr Isaías Herrera, that of the « trapis, condemned for drug trafficking, Mrs Borràs' friendly curriculum leaves much to be desired. But what really worries me, Mr. Elena, is three things. First, the image this Parliament gives with its highest representative disobeying the government. Instead of exercising his office with due neutrality, what he does is he goes from being an activist to illegal demonstrations. The second, the Government's own image: if the second authority of Catalonia disobeys them, how will the rest obey them? And the third thing, Mr. Elena, is his own image and, as a rebound, the delegitimization that the Mossos d'Esquadra again suffer. With the presence of the president in this demonstration, your lack of authority, Mr. Elena, and also that of the entire government, is again evident. And the truth is, you don't have much credibility. A few months ago you told us that these cuts could not be moved from the Meridiana; but now, by magic, it turns out to be. But when the disobedient mob that you encouraged and pushed very recklessly in 2017 doesn't pay any attention to them, the government is amazed, unreacted, leaving the Mossos back at the feet of the horses. Did you really not expect this? Did we not warn them as active and passive that this was going to happen? Do you think you can feed the creature and continue to control it at your will when you have been selling to them for five years the story that disobedience is the summum of the democratic? You, Mr. Elena, have been terribly irresponsible with your attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.117.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.118.0	Well, president, Congresswoman, I'm in a control session not in a political debate on opinions that respects the respective political leaders of this country. I suggest that if you want to have debates, so, the soliciti, you will certainly offer him the opportunity. Miri, we are to guarantee rights and freedoms – number 1. Number 2: Demonstrations, mobilizations are communicated, and their location cannot be changed, nor can they be prohibited by the will of a counselor. This has to happen to other places, not here. There is a regulation and a regulation and legal criteria that guarantee that demonstrations can be made and that if they cannot be made, it must be for some cause, and the cause is public disorder. And from the moment they started to produce these situations it was when they didn't ban mobilization, but they changed their location. So they do things in a democratic and right state, so that's how they work. Two: the operators are the ones who decide how to act at each moment, they meet a criteria that is quite reasonable, that is proportional. Do you know what you mean? You mean things aren't fucking fan, but they're fan with proportionality. And it's doing very well on the side of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad With dial, with proportionality and, the most important, ensuring – yes, because it is ensuring – that the sizes of the Meridiana are not produced. And I'm asking you to stop going from the extreme right hand to provoking in this kind of mobilization and whitening the extreme right, as you're doing here and doing it all the way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.119.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his absence at the conference of autonomous presidents]] [[317-00114/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.120.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr Aragonès, you have once again refused to attend the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. I'd like to know what offer independence has for Catalans, a mere empty chair?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.122.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, well, I suppose that an offer, goes, attractive enough because it has an absolute majority, independence, in this chamber, compared to the migrating parliamentary representation that you have. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.123.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.124.0	Yes, thank you. Look, Mr Aragonès, you are so focused on attacking Spain and on attacking political opponents that you never give up defending Catalans. Look, Catalonia has been a lost decade, a decade of decade of decay and subsidized confrontation, of official car revolutionaries, like Mrs Borràs, to which you follow by being unable to put Catalan interests before empty propaganda and the posture of the process. Well, you've told us you don't want to go to the Conference of Presidents because you don't want to photograph yourselves with the rest of the autonomous presidents. Can you tell us what kind of sentiment makes you unable to talk to the president of the Valencians or the president of the Andalusians, by setting examples of presidents of various parties? Do you think you're superior, Mr. Aragonès? In fact, it charges more, that of course it does. But, of course, what inability do you have to talk to other presidents? You seem to be allergic to any meeting with official and legal rank; you like those blackmail tables that exclude more than half of Catalans. And I have to tell you, Mr Aragonès, that you, with this attitude, are devaluing the Presidency of the Generalitat by leaving the chair empty and by not representing millions of Catalans. It seems to us to many, and to me too, that you do not attend these meetings because you are afraid, because you are afraid of your governing partners, I suppose they call you a traitor, they call you a botifler, because independence policy has been so much devoted to propaganda and exclusion that when it comes to management and meeting, you do not know where to start. We are not going to do as the PSC that begs you to go to this conference to take the photo with Sánchez; we demand you to do your duty, not leave the chair empty, to defend the interests of all Catalans where they must defend themselves. And if you insist on your work absenteeism where Catalans need you, even if it is less strident you will prove the same utility as Quim Torra, that is, none, Mr Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Miri, the clear things: I don't think I'm superior to anyone. And you, who know me at least, know clearly what my attitude is, always, of respect for everyone. The other thing is that I am not obliged to participate in representing the Government of Catalonia to organizations such as the Conference of Presidents. A conference of presidents who, in the order of the same day, have not agreed that they allow to defend, with all the strength and all the potential that the citizenry of Catalonia deserves, his voice. Do you know what the order of the day is at the Presidents' Conference? Does he know? Apparently not. Because if you know that I would see that the points are: valuation of the covid situation – valuation. Five minutes per head – come on, say; five minutes each – and in the end it's just like what you said. This is my experience of the telematic participations I've had. Valuation of European foundations. Do you agree on governance? Do you agree on how to articulate the calls? About how we participate to defend the interests of the economy in Catalonia? European fonds agreements? No, it's worth it. I mean, I come back from words with no agreement. Therefore, it is not useful to defend the interests of the citizen of Catalonia as the citizens of Catalonia deserve. And I recommend you take a test. Divendres, when the Conference of Presidents is over, look at the presidents of his party, territories, autonomous communities governed by his party – which now seems to me to be the People's Party – and see who appreciates the fanship of the agreements. And they'll probably make negative valuations. Because there aren't, all right. And I don't have a problem talking to everybody. I'm talking to you, but these past few weeks I've talked to a few presidents and presidents, with what is the usual, usual and correct deal that has to be made between institutional leaders. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.127.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the consequences of the absence of a President of the Generality at the conference of autonomous Presidents]] [[317-00113/13]] The question is put by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.128.0	Mr Aragonès, are you aware of being the president of a Spanish autonomous community and of the responsibilities involved?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.130.0	Thank you. I am the President of Catalonia and I am very aware of the responsibilities that this entails. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.131.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.132.0	I correct you, you are the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Look, Mr Aragonès, Mr President, your spokesman announced yesterday that you were not going to attend the Conference of Presidents in the Canary Islands, that there was no use, which is only for the photo. Well, look, first of all, as far as the photo is concerned, listen, we already have enough photos of Catalonia's conflict with the rest of Spain to make ascos to a photo that reveals collaboration and eagerness to serve Catalonia in the rest of Spain as well. And as for utility. Are there not important issues that we have to deal with, in common with other autonomy, with the Government of Spain? Look, I'm telling you four: autonomous financing, the Mediterranean Corridor, the distribution of European funds, or the Winter Olympics. In Catalonia, from the back to the rest of Spain we are not going anywhere, Mr Aragonès. You are the president of an autonomous community. Don't ring a bell, don't leave the chair empty, that's what you get paid for with the money of all Catalans, not just those who voted for you. Look, Catalan companies make deals with companies from all over Spain, work, talk to them, move around, get together... Why don't you, who is the leader of the top company, which is the Catalan Generalitat of Catalonia, do what others do? Do you imagine a sales manager of Catalan company who refused to do business with the rest of Spain? How long do you think a person like that would last? What happens is that you know that if you normalize relations with the Government of Spain and with the rest of the autonomous communities you run out of the processist momio. You hate the picture of normality, but instead the paranormal loves it. Here I referred to the agenda, which you do not like. I do not know what agenda they will have in a national pact for the eradication of Spanish in Catalonia, or at that table of the dialect. An agenda that is achievable and not amnesty or self-determination. And in the Council of the Republic, with the sectarian president of the Parliament, what are you talking about? Of all the paranormal you do participate, instead of the normal, of the financing, of the Mediterranean Corridor, of the distribution of European funds, no. Take on your role as autonomous president and get to work, Mr Aragonès. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.134.0	Thank you. I think we could deal with a little, all of us, with respect, also people who cannot intervene in this debate. [[Greetings.]] I think we could treat each other with a little respect and win. [[Greetings.]] Then, Corredor Mediterrani – Corredor Mediterrani... Criteria for the distribution of European funds, for example, are not on the order of the day – are not on the order of the day. Do you know that the Government of Catalonia has proposed to include a covid fund that will provide resources for Catalan sanitation, which was offered by all, all the territories that participated in the preparatory meetings of the Conference of Presidents, and what was the refusal of the Spanish Government? And then, we have to go and give a meeting for good, for experience, because I have participated in meetings of this kind of telematics, and you clearly see that more than just an appreciation, an intervention in which you can feel the opinion – all respectable and some of them very interesting – of presidents of autonomous communities, but in the end it does not come to an agreement because there is no further negotiation. Therefore, it does not serve to defend the interests of Catalonia. It can be used for other things, but they are not the ones that most of this room shares. You said something in your speech that I think you saw, didn't you? , the motius that leads them to make political. You consider that a pact such as the one that was launched yesterday, the National Pact for Catalan Language, is a pact to eradicate the castle. You've always thought that all the actions to promote the català are against the castle. Perhaps here those who feel supremacist are not those who defend this pact, they are others, Mr Carrizosa. You consider that this broad consent of the eighty-five percent of this chamber that approved starting this pact is to do paranormal things. You spoke of the respect we must have for all the rest of the territories. And I assure you I have it. Of course, I may not agree politically, but I do. But to have paranormal actions that serve to defend, to promote the social use of the language of the country, I think that it is to have very little respect for the citizenship of this country and to have very little respect for you, because you would also have to increase the degree of self-requirement in your parliamentary interventions and raise issues of what you say, of those who are of interest to people, because what you said today is only of interest to you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.135.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the decisions of the Department of Education and the lack of negotiation with the educational community]] [[317-00116/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.136.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, at your conference last week you announced – and quote textually – « a dialogue with actors in the country to decide how we want to follow the Catalonia of the future. And only four days later the education unions of our country, more in a unitary way, have called for a five-day march, precisely because their government takes decisions unilaterally. Therefore, we want to know, president, if, before the disastrous management that Councillor Cambray has carried out, you have the intention to take over the kingdoms of this crisis and try to negotiate with the educational community, which is what should have been done from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.138.0	Mrs Albiach – thank you, President – obviously we want to work all the proposals and decisions with as much consensus as possible with everyone. But it has to change, it has to be made up of decisions. We don't have to make decisions. And, therefore, all my support for the Department of Education and the Councillor of Education; it is a good measure, the progress of course – it is a good measure. And the show of that is that no one objects to this measure. We can discuss how, we can look at how to reinforce the doubts. Any change causes anxiety, negations if we get there in time, we'll do just fine. But we put the needs on the table and address them as the Department of Education is doing. But it's time to make changes. This is a measure in favour of equal opportunities. And, therefore, we take the political decisions. And obviously, from this political decision, we do not delegate, we do not externalize political decisions; we take them, the..., and then we work with the educational community, as it cannot be otherwise. The school council has been held; it will issue its opinion, which is obviously preceptive, not binding. Obviously, it will be of all interest to us, and we will work because the course starts earlier, we assimilate to the European school calendars and do so as measured by the equal opportunities of all children and young people in the country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.139.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.140.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, President. I don't know if imposing is very transformative, and I don't know if it means that unions and families don't want transformations, because at the end of it somehow that's what he came to say, when, more than that, we're talking about a collection that is deeply tense, that for two years he's made hands and hands, enormous efforts to endure an education system that still watered and watered down. And you have decided, therefore, that one way to transform was to unilaterally impose measures of great scale. I say it again: consensus is not decreed, consensus is built, and what we see is a counselor, from one band, who does not comply with the agreements, as with the Hospital Culture Academy, but it is that, on the other hand, he is not agreeing on the changes. Families, educational communities, teachers, have been reporting improvisation and lack of dialogue and negotiation with the department for months. They have now put it in a MUCE manifesto and reported improvisation in the school calendar, in the curriculum change, in the public places of professional formation, in the zero-three – now there has been a blur of decree of the school teachers without prior consultation – in the inclusive school, in the centres of high complexity. President, in short, improvisation, lack of dialogue and, if I may, also lack of humility. I think he's all right, he's great – let's say so – he's all right to want to lead the dialog of the future, but we'll have to start to lead the dialog of the present. And so, president, we ask you to rectify, we ask you to come and negotiate, we ask you not to neglect the unions or the educational community, because a country cannot rule from the Faristol; it has to be done from the dialog and, above all – and you know it very well – from the negotiation and reaching agreement with all the actors, they like it or not. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.142.0	Thank you very much, President. What I would like to do is also to be able to convey a message of thanks to the whole educational community, because we are very aware of the efforts that have been made, and we have not stopped to say in the interventions in this room and constantly. From here, we won't remove the measure. We think it's a good measure. We are willing to listen to the doubts, to solve questions that can come out, we have resources. We have enough time. If practically all the rest of the territories start before we go to school, Catalonia can do it too. It's not impossible. And we're not setting it up for the month of June in front of the month of September, just the month of fever, before the whole school pre-registration period begins. We are at the expense of the transformation of the education system and of obviously doing so with the conjunction of the educational community. We have more teachers and teachers than ever before, more staff to support the schools than ever before; I have, of course, still the maximum we want to support, but there is the maximum support. We're explaining I2's gratuitousness. We're deploying the inclusive school decree. There's more support staff than ever in school. This is how the commitment to our country's education is demonstrated. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.143.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the evaluation of the meeting of the Generalitat-State Bilateral Commission]] [[317-00117/13]] The question is put by Mrs Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.144.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning. President, what is the value of the bilateral committee with the Spanish State?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.146.0	Thank you very much, President. So at the meeting that there were past divestitures, from our point of view, the agreements were minimal, therefore, insufficient. There are many questions that we have raised that should have been included and that due to the lack of will of the Government of the State they were not included. We will work because the minimum vital ingredient, because all the question of Rodalies can also be included in proper meetings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.147.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.148.0	So look, President, I'll explain to you how much we value this space. And not only because there are autonomous springs that never arrive at the height of the needs that the people of this country have, but not just because there is evidence of the territorial injustice that the Spanish State practices in this 78-year-old regime so hostile to the Catalan countries, but also because this bilateral commission offers a photo, chair, an image of normality in Catalonia-Spain relations, and gives a message of stability of the conflict that neither it touches nor is it that helps us in anything else, but all the contrary, because we live an offensive against our rights in many flanks. The repression that does not stop, does not cease in this constant exhaustion of cases; the laws approved in this Parliament, that it does not continue timidly guarantee social rights, better for everyone, and that they are systematically fallen for this judiciary that has never been cleansed; the deception of the transfers, these promises never executed that they already seem..., that they are already a mockery, that we are talking about scholarships, that we are talking about Rodalies, that about not being crossed there is not being maintained and is harming daily all the workers in this country. And we're talking, not to say, about the attack on the Catalan language, now exemplified by this flagrant attack on immersion with the feeling of twenty-five percent or the impulse of the audiovisual that violates linguistic diversity. It is an open conflict that when you sit down on this table of distribution of engrunes scienific like a closed conflict. And, president, before this open conflict that so many want to store, how do you feel that you do not go to the Conference of Presidents and, in change, about the current representative of the corrupt crown, of the corrupt monarchy? How did the President feel about contributing to the stagnation and stability of this conflict in the accounts by denouncing it openly?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.149.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.150.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the feeling of defending the technological potential of the Catalan economy and of not making a monarch who has not chosen any place the legitimate representative of Catalonia elected in this Parliament. I am president of the Generality of Catalonia because I have rejected the confidence of a majority of this chamber representing the citizenry of Catalonia. And, therefore, I will not allow myself, in the exercise of my functions of representation of the country, a monarch who has chosen no one. [[Greetings.]] That's why I'll always be defending the interests of Catalonia's citizens. You have made a diagnosis – which I can share many elements of this diagnosis –: the difficulties of progressing in benefiting and progressing for our citizens in the march of an autonomous state in which our skills are constantly being retaliated, but also in the march of a political conflict in which the right to self-determination of our country is denied and where repression continues. The point is that we can't just stay, from my point of view, sharing a diagnosis, but we need to go deeper in sharing how we react, how we move forward. And I think in this sense we need to guarantee two things. The first is that a transformative project like ours and how I think we also share many aspects with the Popular Unity Candidacy must also be a project that is directed to everyday life, day by day, and that I also defend that it can be governed well, in favor of the majority, even though it is with limited tools. And, therefore, let us go as far as possible to make it useful, to make it viable, for the few that follow the results, to obtain better for the city of Catalonia. And, secondly, the resolution of the conflict must have a combination of mobilization, negotiation, search for international support. And that's what the Government of Catalonia is working on, and I think it's what we also need to be able to work together, much harder, to force a dialogue, negotiated and voted for citizenship in the conflict, which, from our point of view, has two names: self-determination and amnesty. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.151.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the lack of progress in Catalonia]] [[317-00115/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.152.0	Mr. Aragonès, do you really believe that Catalonia is moving forward, as you said last week? And I would be grateful if you would leave aside your insolence and your rudeness and look at me when you answer more than two hundred thousand Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.153.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.154.0	Thank you, President. La Catalunya is moving forward. The Catalonia that some want to fracture, increasing inequalities and discriminating against citizenship by its origin or administrative condition, goes back. And it goes back every day thanks to the vast democratic majority of this Parliament. The Catalonia which represents, by luck, a minority part that is dedicated to presenting complaints against members of the Government because it has approved a complementary fund of risks to protect the officials of the Generalitat retrocedeix. And today he's going back with the approval, this late, of the supplementary risk fund, and he also went back when they didn't accept his complaint, the same complaint that you are dedicating to bringing against the members of the government and against myself because they don't accept the outcome of the polls. Maybe a few decades ago, 1939, it worked for them, but now it won't work for them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.155.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.156.0	Mr Aragonès, your appearance last week in the face of Mr Illa's enthusiastic applause does nothing but reaffirm our conviction: separatism and the left represent the greatest possible ballast for present and future Catalonia. And it is not that you have a failed recipe for a wrong project, that you have wronged some approach or that we do not agree on some aspects of your program, no. It's just that directly you don't have a prescription, you don't have any projects, you don't have anything at all. This is the only way to understand their complete disconnection from the real problems of Catalans. But yes, you present yourselves permanently talking about the economic and social progress of our land. Can you tell us what economic progress, Mr Aragonès? May youth unemployment exceed twenty - seven percent? That we continue to lose our industrial fabric? Or that twenty - nine percent of Catalan citizens are at risk of social exclusion? Or does it mean that wages are lower than in 2020? Or that this is going to be the first generation to live worse than their parents, Mr. Aragonès? It also talks about social progress. But what social progress, Mr Aragonès? That the streets are controlled by criminals? , our drug-filled neighborhoods with shootings, permanent assaults? Nor can families have access to decent housing, Mr Aragonès? Or that public services are increasingly of lower quality? Is that your concept of social progress? Today no one doubts that separatism is responsible for the fact that every time the Catalans, the southern Catalonia, Mr Aragonès, not the one you were poaching last week, lives worse since you are in government. Mr. Aragonès, take it and admit it: you are alone. They no longer stand among the separatist parties and only have the cane of Illa, with that timely socialist crutch, because the only thing you are able to offer to the Catalans as a whole is hopelessness. Because Catalonia, Mr Aragonès, the only thing that is really moving forward is in decadence and deterioration, in ruin and misery, in division and inequality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.157.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.158.0	Thank you... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.159.0	I'd ask for a little restraint, and now the President of the Generality is speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.160.0	Thank you, President. It's good that sometimes when the reason isn't up there, the enthusiasm is up there. [[Greetings.]] In any case, social progress and economic progress. You're, like, a bunch of big order launchers. And today he launched a lot of them. But I think that his speech, always – now, at the length of history, in the past electoral campaign, whenever they have the opportunity – is contrasted with data. And contrast it with data. Economic progress. GDP growth : Catalonia, 5.9_per_cent per year; Spain, 5.2. You don't have to do it so badly. It is clear that GDP growth is not the only indicator of economic progress, is it not? In fact, he's very questioned. Atur : Catalunya, deu_per_cent– alt mass, still –; Spanish, tretze_per_cent. So it's obvious that, although we're not on the level we want – that's why we want to have all the tools – we've moved on. We have advanced and, therefore, Catalonia which seems, therefore, to be a people of the Far West in which people are killed by the streets, or which is in destruction, which seems, therefore, Pompeii when it was washed up, seems to me that this Catalonia which you describe does not get along with reality. Now, yes, we have come here because we are aware that the division of Catalonia is hate speech, that the division of Catalonia is unequal, that the division of Catalonia is when it generates discourses against the majority of the population. And that's why we're decided to change it. I, again, won't pass. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.161.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the lack of results of the meeting of the Generalitat-State Bilateral Commission]] [[317-00120/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.162.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President, MPs, MPs, members of the Government, the Socialist Party states that the bilateral divestment commission between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain allowed historical – historical agreements to be concluded. And, if I may be ironic, from Juntes to Catalonia we are totally in agreement that the bilateral commission has been historic, because it has been a full-fledged shirt raise. One of those who makes history. And, unfortunately, we can also say, that the bilateral commission has been historic, because some of the transfers had already passed twelve years ago between President Montilla and President Zapatero. Not history, prehistoric. Mr. Illa, you can't call a bilateral commission as historic as the star of the Observatory of the Turó de l'Home, which, moreover, hasn't been in operation for years. Neither Rodalies nor the airport, nor the port, nor the scholarships, nor the MIR, nor anything else: an authentic deception to all Catalans and Catalans, whether they are independent or not. There is no bilateral commission that is worth if the other band did not volunteer because Catalonia manages and governments its own resources. Nor is there a table of the dialog that is valid if the other band has no intention of resolving the political conflict. We're not in a negotiation process right now. We're in a denial process. PSOE and we can deny ourselves the will to be and to do as we were born. And before this situation, President, we need to be stronger. With labor reform we have seen the parliamentary weakness of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. That is why we insist, President, on the need to refer to the independence unit, because together we are stronger, as you yourself recognized at your conference. We need a strategic direction to move forward together here and also so that we don't get caught in Madrid. And in this sense, president, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.163.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.164.0	Thank you, President. As I mentioned earlier in my reply to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, the appreciation we make of the Government of the Bilateral State-General Commission is that it was a small committee, a committee with insufficient results due to a lack of will on the part of the Spanish Government, and that in any case it can be described as historic. This was an excess of enthusiasm to try to make up some results that, I insist, by the Spanish government's will, are not bigger, like the ones we've been planting. But I think we also need to be clear. We knew how important this bilateral commission was to us, how much we knew about the government's joint, the delegation that participated in it, and despite that we decided that it was important to go there, because even though we did get the results, we needed to put on the table, in the first place, that we had the results, even though they are, they are escorted, whatever we can, that we can get there, and, in the second place, also, to manifest the unwillingness to move forward in these aspects as well by the government of the State. I believe that in order to advance in this sense what is important is to see all the combination of the force that can be done to defend Catalonia's interests and, obviously, in this sense I have bought myself – I did it last week publicly and today I do it in this chamber – to work for the unit of action of the combination of forces that we can agree on in these broad consensuss, to do it in the Parliament of Catalonia..., we are doing it in different areas, too. Yesterday we had a very good example with the national language pact, going to an absolute majority – more than eighty-five_per_cent of this chamber was represented – but also in other areas where we may not have eighty-five_per_cent, but there will be a majority of this chamber that we can advance. We must also do this in the area of the Congress of Deputies. And we must also do so in the Senate and in the European Parliament. In order to do this, I think it is essential that we focus more on what we share than on what we legitimately differ as political projects and candidatures to which we belong, which are different. Therefore, it is important to focus on what we share. I, above all, strengthen the institutions of Catalonia. I think that's a good thing. Catalonia in the most complicated moments of its history has held the institutions, either here or in exile, defending the historical continuity of the country. A country, a nation, needs strong institutions. And that's what we're all about, and here they have all my support, and I'm counting on theirs, too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.165.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the defence of the Catalan canon of residues]] [[317-00118/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.166.0	Thank you, President. President, neither fan nor let it go. This could be a way of summarizing the attack that it supposes for the catalan canon the Spanish law of residues that is now being processed. The Spanish State repeatedly fails to complete the waste collection targets and its adaptation to the European marques carries a huge backlog. And now they intend to recover the lost time at the expense of a pioneering system that has been in existence for almost 20 years that has more political and social support than consolidated in Catalonia, and with the recognition of Europe. And it's that the residue canon is a model of success, for design and implementation. It is the ideal formula to reduce the intake and incineration of mass waste, to increase the levels of selective collection and recycling and to find financing for infrastructure and tools of improvement. When it began to apply, the percentage of selective collection was around thirty per cent and today it is forty-sis_per_cent. A percentage that has to be and will be higher. And to get it, the tools that precisely bring this canon. But if this law prospers as it is now, Catalonia will have come out because it did the right thing in time. Not only will it lose management, but also the functioning. The new unified tax, as proposed by the State now, will not maintain the finalist character, will not directly reverse the ecosystem and will not favor the circular economy. In fact, even open the door for the central government to return the tax type to zero_per_cent and therefore the canon simply disappears. The canon is supported by the consent of very many Catalan institutions, the municipal world, entities, unions, business, and data – the data also swallows it. That is why we are bringing to the House a motion seeking to replicate this social and municipal consensus to the Parliament's disconception and to shield it from the threat of the law being dealt with. Tomorrow we'll know if Catalan management, if the ultimate goal of this environmental taxation, if keeping the job well done is a priority for everyone. That some have not done enough work so far can't be used as an excuse to homogenize a catalan canon and trap its sense. We know, President, that green transformation is one of his government's flags and that you have always defended the great consensus as the firmest way forward together with the country. And this, this canon, is one of those consensuses. In this sense, therefore, how does your government, president, defend the Catalan canon of residue? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.167.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.168.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, this is an example of many of the challenges we find ourselves in these moments. That is to say, Catalonia has developed pioneering instruments, pioneering legislation, and we find ourselves like the Government of the State, before this is non-existent in other territories or at the level of the State does not have enough intensity, decides to take a step that is short and that invades competitions. We see it now with the residue chain and we are seeing it in the housing law project, which also enters our jurisdictions and, apart from it, does not regulate how we are regulating it, with all the ambition and the demand that this Parliament demands of us, but remains half way away. In the residue canon. I think it may seem now, after some interventions that we have heard today..., that someone may think that it is residual, but I would like to recall that between 2014 and 2020_has allowed Catalonia to dispose of 647_million euros that have been intended to promote selective collection, that we are in forty-six_per_cent of selective collection– the average of the State is twenty-four– and 2035 we have reached sixty-five European targets. So, where it works in Catalonia, which works well, which has worked with the majority political consensus of this chamber, now, therefore, is at risk for a decision of the Government of the State. It has allowed to invest more than 250_million euros in composting plants, 121_million euros in organic colliding, 47_million euros in laisseries... The canon of industrial waste, which can also be affected, has allowed, therefore, to promote the circular economy, to invest in research and development, to have recovered 36_million euros. Or that of construction, 34_million euros, which has allowed to advance in all the use of recycled arids and in the field, too, of environmental research. Therefore, if the draft law continues in the terms it is established, the Catalan residue canon, which allows the Agency of Residus to be a pioneer in the State and an example at European level..., it will disappear this canon. They fight it. We will fight because we have all our capacity for action and because we also have the sovereignty of this Parliament to decide on its own policy of residuals, a policy that is key, in the fight against climate change, to promote a circular economy and to continue demanding this green transformation, which is absolutely essential. Therefore, if this is approved in the terms in which it is, it will have before the Government of the Generality, and we will get there as long as we need it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.169.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his lack of attendance at the conference of autonomous presidents]] [[317-00119/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.170.0	Madam President, for a moment I had the impression that the control session was mine. [[Rialles.]] I want you to know that, if the Rules allow, there is no inconvenience. [[Rialles.]] Of all the questions that have been asked, there is one that I care to make clear – very much, I care. Mr. Puignero made it for me. Senyor Puignero, owner support to the Aina platform. You called me, I couldn't watch it, but I want to make it clear that my group and I support it. And I still want to make a reference to thank and congratulate all the operatives who have participated in the extinction of the fire of the head of Creus, of Roses. Count, it's already in the back. Prudence, the same won't make it easy for us. And I, Mr. Aragones, also want to talk to you about the XXVI Conference of Presidents, which will be held in Llanos de Aridane tomorrow. If you talk about the European Foundations – about the management of the European Foundations – if you talk about the covid, if you talk about the functioning of the Conferences of Presidents... I know you have attended some. I think I've seen some more than you, in my condition of Minister of Health, at very complicated times. And it seemed to me that they were perfectable, but that they were useful. It seems to me that it is better... that it is better to defend the interests of Catalonia are there, going there, than not absent 'n. And I want to tell you how you intend to defend the interests of all of Catalonia by leaving the Chair of the Government of Catalonia empty. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.171.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.172.0	Thank you very much. So we defend them by following a criteria that you have required of us for a long time in this chamber, which is the compliment of the Statue. The Statute does not provide for the Conference of Presidents. The Constitution does not provide for the Conference of Presidents. The State foresees the Bilateral State-General Commission, which we already see the results it has had. That's where we need to defend this. It's how we set up our institutional system, and so it's how we do it. Five minutes to speak without a right answer, without proposals agreed, are not the conditions to be able to defend a position, and it is wrongly so. And I'm telling you with all the pain I've noticed. I have participated in some extraordinary telematic conferences during the pandemic, as did President Torra when you were Minister of Health. And, as at least I participated in, I saw that, more than five minutes later, in which we put our positions, then, then, they talked about the rest of the presidents and stayed just as we had started: with decisions taken in advance and that were not changed there. There will be no agreement at the Conference of Presidents on European foundations. The point is appreciation, and this means that there will be an intervention by the corresponding minister, the rest of the presidents will speak and it will be over here. And, so... I think we need to give value... if there are multilateral cooperation mechanisms, I'm going to give the value it touches, and I think that at these times I'm not giving it. But not for my part, but for the Spanish government's part, which does not make them serve as mechanisms of agreement, but makes them serve for a finding that obviously has some other objectives that are not what we share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.173.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.174.0	I'm very sorry for your answer, Mr. Aragonès. I think it's a useful instrument, normal, in all composite states. It works that way, and it does not exclude any of the other mechanisms provided for in the Statute and the Constitution. And listen to me, I've seen various, and no one has been prevented from doing the layout that I've wanted. And they're all there, they're all there; you're the only one who won't be there. The Lehendakari Urkullu will be there, President Moreno Bonilla will be there, all will be there. Catalonia deserves its maximum representation to be seated there, to disagree, if convenient. You ask for a dial, sometimes even require it. I ask you to practice. I recommend and ask you that the practice: that the practice attend this Conference of Presidents and that the practice also in the day-to-day of your government. A government has to make decisions – that's obvious, I agree – and it's good to take them, but it has to explain itself and listen. And they didn't explain themselves well enough and they didn't listen well enough when they had a call. Catalunya, Mr. Aragonès, needs a change of course also in forms. It's starting to get urgent. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.175.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.176.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Illa, the dial's practicing. I think that you, as opposed to the opposition, have come many times this year..., went to say "legislative"; no, no, in these new months that I carry as president – because it's not yet a year ago – came much more than not the heads of opposition together in all the previous legislatures. Therefore, the dialog practice. We attended the preparatory meetings. We asked that the covid fund be drawn up to keep resources to sanitation; no, no, no, no can't talk. We asked that the agreements of the Conference of Presidents were not obligatory compliments – because we also have to defend our skills – that it was an organization like a lot of coordination; no, neither. Treat-it questions as the vital minimum ingredient; no, neither. That the co-governance of the funds was effective, which means co-ciding – not being informed, but deciding –; this has not been possible. And, therefore, it is not a useful tool to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia today. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.177.0	After the control session, let's get to the next point of the order of the day, the communication... yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.178.0	President, for Rule 35, to ask for the immediate..., or the meeting of a Board of Spokespersons as soon as possible on the day of today for, precisely, debate on what it asked for before. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.179.0	I have been informed of the reconsideration, and therefore we will take the Spokesman's Board as soon as possible at the midday break.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.180.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.181.0	Let's move to the third point of the order of the day, the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As it is included in the Ple file that has been distributed to all Members, I urge them to complete the reading. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's possible. [[Appointment of MPs for the presupposition period of 2022]] [[231-00002/13]] So let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the appointment of the MPs for the presupposition period of 2022. The Enlarged Bureau, at its plenary session on 4 February, as provided for in Article 37.5 of the Rules of Procedure, granted the Plenary the appointment of Mr Óscar Ordeig, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress; Mr Juli Fernàndez, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and Mr Jordi Munell, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, as well as the Speakers for this budgetary period of 2022. Can you consider this proposal approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Therefore, if not, we shall proceed to the vote. We have made the calls to vote, and because it is a matter of voting people, we proceed to the vote of these three Members. The intervention will be secret and electronic. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, it's secret and electronic. [[Rialles.]] The result of the vote is 108 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. Therefore, Members of the European Parliament are appointed as interveners. [[applause]] The Lords Óscar Ordeig, Juli Fernàndez and Jordi Munell. [[Situation of compatibility or incompatibility of Mireia Dionisio Calé]] [[234-00149/13]] Let's move to the fifth point of the order of the day, which is the situation of compatibility or incompatibility of the deputy Mirea Dionisio Calé. As the Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the European Parliament on this compatibility situation has been published in the plenary's file, it is also necessary that the reading be completed. If there is no objection, can this opinion be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, this opinion is approved, by the consent of the chamber. [[Some applause.]] [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the changes in the summit of the Squadron Mosses and in the General Commission for Criminal Investigation]] [[361-00015/13]] And we move to the next point of the order of the day. The sixth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me about the changes in the summit of the Squadron Mosses and in the General Commission for Criminal Investigation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first place will be for the requesting parliamentary group to intervene, and then for the rest of the parliamentary groups to express their position. Remember, the speaking time is five minutes. It has the word, therefore, for explanatory statements of the request for appearance, the deputy Mr David Cid, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.182.0	Thank you, President. We wanted to start this petition of appearance with an element that we obviously know, and therefore we also want to make clear. That is to say, the government obviously has the ability to decide who is the most responsible for the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. The problem for us is how, why and who. We will start with how: without explanations, because 21 December is when our group asks for the appearance of the Councillor of Interior, appearance that is not produced until the end of generation, and, moreover, with insufficient explanations; policy of faristol or press wheel – yes, with journalists vetoes on the off. Why, call a switch to the summit of the squadron mosss? According to his own advisor, the calibre has been deactivated. And I want to remember that in the last five years the most responsible for the body hasn't finished the year. The first question, therefore, is: how did the appropriate adviser position his mandate? And, in the second place, the scale degrades Trapero? After everything that's been going on, wouldn't it have been better for a night out? Was it a peril of weeks without clear functions, sending it to a dispatch, to tell us something, that, according to the own inspector, the Rubian Rose, who had been there, was not the right fit to work? So, the comm. In the second place, why: changes that we believe are not justified, that do not seem justified, and publicly exposed motuses do not fit by place. It was said that the changes were to feminize the body, to rejoin the body and for new forms of leadership. The changes in the dome do not point to a new feminization of the body and neither to the practices. I will give two examples: last week, the denunciation of the People Sec, with the moves pulling the door to the ground from a family home to call it, or the arrest of the activists of the Bloc Llavors without judicial order of the moves. So it doesn't look like there's any change in the police model. And, for us, what is most worrying: the cessation of the Head of Investigation of the Mosso d'Esquadra, of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, Mr Toni Rodríguez. According to the explanations given to the counselor, for lack of leadership. Then, why was the commissioner the number or in the internal evaluation processes at his promoter's promotion? Maximum score in team motivation, compromise and interaction with your commands. Despite this, he has been degraded, cleansed and sent to Ruby's police station against his will and without the real motive of the table. Someone who led the anti-corruption investigations, who also affected his own government, that he was taken away in this way? A resignation... or, in this case, was accompanied by a cessation, by a resignation, which is that of his number two, which even came to ask for judicial office because he was under political pressure. Does the President of the Generality share these explanations? Were you on the case of this change? In this case, were you in the case of the change in the Head of Investigation of the Squadron Mosses? Do you agree? Do you think it's a good change? That's what we want to know. Because if it's not a debugging, it's enough. And finally, the one who: Councilman Elena said that she had only consulted this decision with President Aragonès – and this is the reason why we also ask for the appearance – but, look, the truth is that it doesn't fit for place. That is to say, Esquerra and Juntes discuss everything, in full view, for any reason and in full light of the day. In fact, the last discussion they've had is about the intent – now it's not, but... – of the External Action Advisor to rehabilitate Mr. Jordi Pujol in the act of this dilluns. They also discuss the decisions of the Interior. The decision known between the head of the opposition or the Speaker of the Parliament and the Councillor d'Interior on the heights of the Meridiana. Now, on the cleansing of the Interior, silence – silence. As my avia would say, she didn't even feel the flight of a fly. Therefore, it is obvious that it is granted. And what's happened? That Esquerra was flying out of Trapero and Junts was flying out of the Head of Investigation of the Squadron Mosses. And this is the pact that you have come to. And, therefore, I ask: was this part of the investment pact between Esquerra and Junts? Aren't your CUP investment partners on the case? Did they consult the changes with their governing partners or with people who were not part of the government? The Republican General was that? Away who fights corruption? These are the questions that are still unanswered. And that's why we're asking for the support of the chamber to see the President of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.183.0	Then the parliamentary groups, if they want to position, also have a maximum time of five minutes. In the first place, has the word Mr Ramon Espadaler, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.184.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor..., he went to say "Honourable President, but you see that he is not very interested in what we say from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar. It's been a long time..., it's been a long time since we've been with the Mossos in the table – we've come from complicated legislatures, but this one's still running – and it's been, today, exactly..., if it doesn't, two exact months that we're talking about the changes to the front of the Mossos Cos d'Esquadra. And, if we're talking about it, it's not because it's a matter of a parliamentary group or two, but because it's a problem that has generated editorials, that has generated positions of parliamentary groups, that has been misunderstood in the next group. And, therefore, today we are ahead of a new initiative, which, in fact, takes what the police law says in its article 2: "The most responsible for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is the President of the Generality, who delegates to the Councillor d'Interior. Therefore, in this sense, we – let us move forward – will certainly support this initiative. We remember that we still have parliamentary proceedings in place, I think, of debates – if it has not finished, you have to finish some day of these – the constitution of a commission of inquiry to clarify these changes, because it is too serious, what is happening. And, feeling the lack of explanation, let's start to think that maybe it's inexplicable, what happened with the changes. Start thinking maybe it's inexplicable. And, counselor, they have to ask why two months later we're still debating this. So our answer is very simple: because you've taken this..., you've made the changes in a way that you don't want to tell us or the real reason, and now you're pointing at some, and we're also convinced that this has been there. Major Trapero did not like it or was not well seen on one side of the coalition government; the intendant responsible for criminal investigation, on the other hand..., and he made himself a "component that has not been explained, simply because – we have come to the conclusion – it is inexplicable, because it is to transfer to the dome of the Cos de Mosso complex balances, therefore, that there are in itself of the government – is to say, to politicize it. And, look, we've come to the conclusion..., and I'm sorry to say it this way, but I think the main source of instability of the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's own government and their decisions. They have begun this legislature with an agreement between the Republican Left and the CUP that makes a glue of servitudes that result in a commission that is on the march, that if the withdrawals of the private accusations that can make the moves to the people that cause the crowds – today we have no more shows –, that if the withdrawal of the defenses of those moves that are accused... And we're one step away from the government being the first source of instability for the Squadre Moss Cos, it's that we're one step away, in all decisions– and today we haven't discussed yet another, about the instructions that are given, certainly, I think verbally, because..., well, we won't ask them written, but in any case, between one thing and the other... –, that the government ended up becoming the first problem of the Squadre Moss Cos, based on erratic decisions, based on a set of decisions that are not able to explain. Because the explanations that have been given do not have any way of comparison. We can't come here with the song of saying "we're going to rejoin, when the replenishments haven't rejoined; "we're going to feminize, when the replenishments in tremendously sensitive areas haven't feminized; "we're going to polish leaders who were imperfect, when they say, for the sake of Squadron Mosses, that leaders are exercising with responsibility and were recognized, that it's the most important of a leadership, that this one is recognized for people who work aligned with these leaders – about the case of criminal investigation and we can talk about many other cases. And we are concerned about this, that the government has ended up feeling the main source of instability and that it has gone from being the main problem of the Squad Coast, because all the explanations that have been given are not credible. We agree with the establishment of the police law itself, in its Article 2, which establishes that the President of the Generality is not the most responsible, and that we have gone against a wall of recurrent explanations and that they have not convinced any one of us – none of us: neither of the body, nor of the body, nor in many means of communication, nor in many of the parliamentary groups – therefore, we would vote in favour of this initiative, because it is inexplicable, and that it is the reason why many of the changes that have been made to the crime scene were made to the crime scene. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.185.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.186.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. VOX will also vote in favour of this petition. What has happened in the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps in recent weeks has been frankly shameful – frankly shameful. Separatism is denigrating, denigrating, vilifying and politicizing the autonomous police to the point of nausea. Nothing new. They blatantly use their police dome to hide the systemic corruption of separatism. We want the President of the Generalitat to explain why all those agents who were investigating precisely cases of corruption of leading separatist leaders, such as former Councillor Buch, the President of the Lérida Diputation – Joan Reñé – or the very President of the Parliament – charged with crimes of documentary falsehood, fraud, prevarication and misappropriation of public revenues have been charged. We want to know why you're helping the alleged corrupt by pulling out the good cops who are investigating you. What happened doesn't have any passes. Do you think it would be normal for agents pursuing corruption to have to apply to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia for amparo against their political pressures? Do you think it's normal that the judge who investigates Laura Borràs had to withdraw the investigation from the Mossos to entrust her to the Civil Guard? Do you think it is normal that Mr Buch, accused of embezzlement and prevarication, is currently the president of Infrastructures. How much? Do you think it would be normal for Mr. Brauli Duart to be commercially taken over by that society, following the well-known and absolutely blushing conversations with Mr. David Madí? Don't they realize that, no matter how much they hide it – their subsidized means... – people will end up getting to know all these tricks and tricks? Don't you see that the changes in the Mossos d'Esquadra dome call into question their credibility in the fight against corruption? We, from VOX, believe that what any political group has to ask in the opposition: light and stenographers, know exactly what has happened. We want a professional, independent police force that pursues all the corrupt, wears yellow lace or does not wear yellow lace. It's that simple. VOX does not want the Mossos dome to be a septic pit of amigoism and nepotism. We want Catalans to be proud of the police force, huh? , and, logically, that the flood of investigations that you are trying to cover up, then, through the replacement of the high police commanders. Frankly, it's terrible. That is why at the time we were the first political group to ask for explanations, with battery of questions. We did at the time, already in December, at the beginning of December, as soon as we were aware of this situation, requests to appear, parliamentary questions, etc., and that is why we have also taken part in the drive to set up a committee of inquiry, which I hope will not take too long, right? We want to know what has happened to this issue, and we want the carpet to be raised to see the level of filth that the Government of the Generalitat is hiding. We would therefore like to know the level of political commitment of the President of the Generalitat, Pere Aragonès, in the fight against corruption. And we want to know... well, finally, try to hear from the government that they do not have the will, at least theoretically, for the Mossos d'Esquadra to be led by four political commissioners in the purest banana republic style. Therefore, there are many explanations that they have to give and a lot of the crap that has to come out. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this appearance, because we think there is a lot to say and we will say it when..., if you finally vote in favour. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.187.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity, Mr. Xavier Pellicer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.188.0	Well, thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, we, on this issue we have already repeated to each and every one of the occasions when during these two months this question of the changes to the Interior was carried forward, which was about who and who was not talking about what. We will vote in favour of this appearance, we think it would be strange to do so. In any case, we have some doubts about the focus on whether the President of the Generality has to come to terms with the changes or for whom they are his security policies and what is the Government's approach to security. That for us this is the phone book and this is the basis, and we think it's the debate that needs to be held in Parliament: about the model and what. Anyway, we'll try and explain this to you. And we think that this focus you've made from the commons has some risks. And the risks are then seen, that they are the counter..., that they change because everything remains the same, with everything to be changed to the Interior Department, with all the transformations that must be done, and with all the need for greater transparency, model change, background review, audience, is derived from this, with any wind of change, that is what we are repeatedly in need of, and that is what we are in need of, on the part of this threefold network, to say it in some way, with the cross and the inestimable help of a PSC, that, as we have seen in going back from the Interior, is all that has happened to us through the right – and even more so, that we can't say – at this extreme level – that we can't say that we're not alone. Also good to know if the previous dome of the Mossos – as we were talking about the denunciation of the Bloc Llavors, as we were talking about the arrests of the companies and companies of the movement for housing in the Bloc Llavors – are those who precisely ordered these activists to be investigated for the group of violent extremists of the Mossos, right? And, therefore, if the dome that existed before was that focused on these investigations and this persecution of the movement for housing in this way, and what does the present dome think, what does the present Department of Interior think, and what does the Government of the Generality and the President think, about these issues. In any case, and in order not to widen me further, repeat that we will vote in favour of an exercise of transparency, that we will place the President of the Generality explain and speak not only of whom and of the changes in which, but of why and what the Government wants to do and who are its security policies, and, therefore, who are its priorities, and what transformations will make to complete this whole series of questions linked to fundamental rights and respect for the right to mobilization, to halt the relocation of vulnerable families, to greater transparency and accountability to the Interior, etc. I think we'll have a chance to talk about it during this plethora, too, of a motion that we have presented with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.189.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.190.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen... This debate may seem like a sign of sanctity to return to it, but it is certainly the result of the lack of credibility of a government of the Continuist Generality, of a government of the Generality that does the same as the three governments that preceded it: faggotizing the administrative structures of the Generality and exercising its governmental powers with a clear biaix partyista. This government of continuity does not govern for all Catalans; it only does so to subvert the democratic order from the position of force that gives it control of the structures of power and propaganda. This government, like the three governments that preceded it, is a bad government, sense of doubt. That said, from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we believe that the President of the Generality has to say something about the change in the police dome, about the change in the prefecture's commands and other police commands related, in this case, to the Criminal Investigation. So far, he has left everything in the hands of the Councillor d'Interior, who has insisted that the changes have been a legitimate political decision that has taken without interference. Some changes that – the same advisor recognizes – the President of the Generality knew; therefore, some changes that have the visa of President Aragonès, in the end and in the end, the maximum responsible for the body. So maybe it's just that President Aragones explains to the House who are the real reasons for these changes, which they have as a minimum their view. At least, because they may be the consequence of their political will. Political will... if it were just that, a political will to introduce changes to the summit of the Mossos to achieve a better functioning of the body, it would be within the absolute legitimacy mark, but I think we all know... we all know where we came from. We know that the political control of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has been a priority for the governments of the last decade, as at the very least; a political control will that is present in the procedures of internal promotion and selection of members of the executive and superior ports of call, a selection procedures that are not objective, that have a lack of transparency and objectivity that even has been denounced for the union organizations of the police. But it is not only the selection procedures, which allow the police to form the dome, so that they are opaque and subjective, that they do not have the objectivity to ensure that the selection procedures are transparent and consistent with merit and capacity, but also that the members of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra have seen with amazement how from the Government itself of the Generalitat, both by the former Presidents Puigdemont and Torra and by some of the councillors, as, for example, Mr Forn, has intended to modulate the actions of the Mossos to his partisan interest by pretending that they acted behind democratic legislation and leaving them literally at the feet of the horses in the exercise of their public function. There are many, many precedents for misconception, and Mr Aragonès's government is not without suspicion. It has not been clear nor have they been able to explain why the change at the head of the prefecture, of the police chiefship, postponed to Major Trapero, who has gone from being exalted as a hero after his role in the investigations of the terrible attacks of 17 and 18 August 2017 in Barcelona and Cambrils to come to consider himself a villain for having defended himself from the serious accusations of sedition in the events of September and October 2017, explaining the pressures to which the coup government subjected the Corps de Mossos d'Esquadra. Nor is it clear why one of the first decisions, if not the first, of the new Commissioner-in-Chief, was to dismiss the Chief Commissioner in charge of the Commission for Criminal Investigation, a police officer with extensive experience in the field of investigation, including the investigation of cases involving former Councillor Buch and the President of this Parliament, Mrs Borràs; a police officer with explicit recognition of his superiors with regard to the quality of his professional performance; a police officer who has been purged say that for reasons of style – it was really a matter of favour treatment by the Director-General with regard to a sanctioning file for Sergeant Escolà. In view of the above, and that, on the part of the current Home Secretary, Mr Elena, the explanations given have not been satisfactory for at least several of the parliamentary groups that we make up this Parliament, for it is time for Mr Aragonès, the President of the Generalitat, to explain it in full to..., to come to the plenary to explain the real reasons for this change. And, in this regard, we will vote in favour of this request to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.191.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, now, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.192.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we, from our parliamentary group, are also going to join in this request for President Aragonès to appear, basically because the explanations-excuses that Mr Elena has given us so far are totally inadequate. That's it, first of all. Secondly, because Mr Aragonès himself shows his transparency; I think he should put it into practice. And, third, because, moreover, Mr Aragonès, as president of the Generalitat which is, holds the supreme command of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra. Well, I was saying that the explanations offered to date by Councillor Elena have been totally inadequate, but it is that, moreover, Mr. Elena, some of them have also been contradictory. For example, you sold us that the changes in the dome were intended to achieve the feminization of the body, and from this we had the opportunity to speak in committee. But, of course, I repeat the same argument: if you replace men with other men, there is no feminization anywhere. And I also tell you – and I already told you in your day – that it seems to me that using this battle that we women have for effective and real equality..., honestly, I don't think it's a good use on your part. But it is that, besides – and we also talked about it in the previous plenary – I believe that with all this you, Mr. Elena, what you intend to do is to cover up the discrimination that the Mosses d'équadra are suffering from by the Directorate General of the Police, and that your director, Mr. Pere Ferrer, justifies and endorses by punishing the Mosses for being mothers. And I say to you that on this subject I will investigate further, because we have a conviction of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia which expressly says that you have discriminated against a mossa d'esquadra for being a woman, for being on maternity leave. And so, if you want to talk about feminization of the body, we'll talk about feminization of the body, but with the cards on top of the table. You know perfectly well that when women are in a situation of maternity leave, they do not score, they do not reach the necessary score..., the hours necessary to score in the PGA, in the general evaluation plan. And then, on the other hand, it is that, in addition, you, to try to balance, to try to equalize, what you do is change women, the moves, from squamot, which involves a change of schedule. And this is how you balance groups, without asking them, without their consent. I insist that this is the cause of gender discrimination. And we're going to investigate this issue, because, above that you put the medal of wanting to feminize the body..., that's all we needed, Mr. Elena. He told us more things. Also, for example, that the changes were due to a stage within the Generalitat Police Corps, because – and you said it with all the letters – the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra had to be politicized. You said that politics... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, he has said that the representation of this Parliament must guide the activity of the Mossos d'Esquadra. So that's politicizing the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. You, for example, have not explained to us why you have dismissed Lieutenant Rodriguez. He wanted to sell us that he wasn't the right one, but nevertheless, Lieutenant Rodriguez has the best score on the part of his bosses of the moment. Doesn't it have anything to do with Mr Elena - I ask you again - that Mr Toni Rodríguez was precisely in charge of investigating the corruption of the multi-institute President of Parliament, Mrs Laura Borràs? That, by the way, he had to ask for and receive legal protection for the pressures he was receiving, Lieutenant Rodriguez... It is that, frankly, there are many loopholes in this issue. And so, of course, we want Mr Aragonès to look at this – look at it. You also told us, well, that, the value of purges, that this was a new stage... ; that is, a lot of justifications, Mr Elena, that you have tried to sell us, but that all they show is that this has been a purge, a purge in every rule. And, if it has not, I insist again that you give us the relevant explanations, because so far the only thing you have done has been contradict yourself, give one version, then give another, give one reason, then give another..., but none of the quail reasons and none of the reasons explain the changes you have made in the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. I insist: why have those who were investigating cases of corruption, cases of corruption who, in addition, point to independence leaders been dismissed? This question is unanswered, Mr Elena – it is unanswered. We therefore want Mr Aragonès to give, I insist, the relevant explanations. And, in the end, I believe that, as I say, you intend to politicize the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. And the question I'm asking myself is, how far? How far do you want your tentacles to go, Mr. Elena? Frankly, we will see if Mr Aragonès faces this issue, gives the relevant explanations. But if not, I tell you that you already have a commission of inquiry requested by several groups in this Chamber regarding the changes, but we will ask for more, such as, for example, on this subject, which I say to you about discrimination against women in the squadrons on the grounds of gender, because they are women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.193.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.194.0	Well, good morning, President. Counselor, advisor, deputies and deputies... First of all, I want to bring all our efforts and thanks to all the emergency services – bombers, ADF, 112, Civil Protection – volunteers, pages..., who have worked tirelessly to control the recent fires of the Empordad. All the support from this Parliament for all of them and for this affected territory. As we say, the past 24 genera comparison, on a petition of its own, counsel Elena to the Commission of the Interior to explain what these changes do to the summit of the Mosso d'Esquadra and to the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, because it is a political obligation to manage resources well, whether economic or technical, to give the best service to the citizenry, but it is also very important to give account of the decisions taken in the exercise of transparency and good governance. So, now the appearance of the very honorable President Pere Aragonès is demanded to continue explaining the same. It doesn't seem like there's enough to be explained so far, or maybe it's that he likes it very much, this question, to listen to it one and the other time, continuously. We have already explained on different occasions that all governments have the power to make the changes they want to make to compliment the commitments emanating from the new projects and the intentions of that legislature – this has always been done. Maybe when the changes they produce come from one, they're more acceptable than when they come from another? Maybe that's it. Because these changes were made by Mr. Saura, by Mr. Swordler, by Mr. Buch, by Mr. Saura, by Mr. Swordler, by Mr. Buch, by Mr. Samper, by Mr. Samper, to give some examples, but other councils have also done so, to reinforce objectives and aims to achieve, as is legitimate and as is normal. It has already been explained that these changes are oriented to the better and richer body. We have in advance of the 2030 hour, which obeys an increment of our police, from 18,000 to 22,000 officers, and early retirement, to rejoin the staff and guarantee equality between men and women. Our police therefore involve growth, territorialization, transparency, rejuvenation, feminization, technology. And, in the long run, we need a human team, a human team in a plural leadership model, cooperative, more equal and more horizontal. We have, therefore, a new equal prefecture, of four people, which has demonstrated knowledge of the body and the territory, technical solvency, capacity for teamwork and community work and a high degree of compromise in the fight against masculinist violence. It has also been explained that these categories that have been carried out have not been lost in case of their trust; on the contrary, they must count on their experience, their professionalism and their expertise from other responsibilities in the body. And we have no doubt that the investigations that are being carried out in the General Commission for Criminal Investigation will continue their process, because the stagnation of investigations ensures the autonomy of the investigation groups that fight corruption and prevents any external interference. Certainly – certainly – our president, who is constantly questioned, but who cannot participate in this debate, because we already know that our president, our leader, awakens her interest..., but not to repeat a lie a thousand times is converted into a truth. And you should all know that the forward-looking investigation into the president when she was a Member of this Parliament has already closed the year 2018 and was transferred to the Civil Guard's body. So let me just stop saying that Mr. Rodriguez is now... that Mr. Rodriguez's change has no interest in us. Do me a favor, please, to document yourself. Therefore, we rely, therefore, on the professionalism, expertise and human capital of the Commands of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, since they exercise their responsibilities at the highest level – we have a knowledge at the disposal of the organization through a human capital that grows constantly and that is transformed and adapts to the needs of the moment. And we're not asking any more about the changes on this human team, please. And, if I may, let's see the very honorable President Pere Aragones because he'll come back and explain it to us. There's no problem, then. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.195.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.196.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, first of all, I start with the advance that everyone already knows: our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this request, but I cannot help but make some points that I think are necessary. First of all, on the 24th, when you appeared before the Commission of the Interior..., I remember: the first Commission of the Interior since you presented your voluntary petition for appearance; I remember, too, because things must also be settled, that the whole parliamentary process was under way, as the Rules mark, up to the 15th generation – I remember. I already told him that this topic would not end, if he remembers it; surely the surprise as it continues, but we know it will continue, and I think it is important. It was said – and it was said for the proposing group, and I think it is important – the legitimate and democratic power that you have, Mr. Elena, at the time of making the changes in the prefecture of the Squad's Cos de Mossos, changes that are realized by a will of transformation. And I think that's also to be said: for a will of transformation. There are certain parliamentary groups that do not share this transformational will. And I find it normal, because they don't share either the ideological look or the look you have around security policies. VOX, Ciutadans, PP, form part. We have also seen, during this legislature, that neither does the Socialist Parliamentary Group share this view, and it has verbalized very clearly on behalf of its spokesman, Mr. Swordler, who is the spokesman of the Socialist Group in matters of security policies. But this does not mean that we do not continue to do the work that is close to the government, that it is to realize the necessary changes around an orientation of security policies in an integral way. And I think these changes we're looking at day by day. We'd like them to be faster. We are aware of its complexity. We are aware that they will be difficult to locate, but they have been seen. It was seen in a dome where, for the first time, one_third of the dome are women. It was seen in the major success, in some opposition, of the presentation of gifts for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. It was seen in the logic of defending the rights of speech – today we didn't have a keyboard, and we'll talk about it later. It seems to me quite curious that it does not want to apply case law, judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, concerning the defence of the fundamental rights over an administrative rule, which is the law bites, which has to be repealed and which has not been repealed. This is all part of the reality we find ourselves in. And that also explains this debate, and I think it's important that we find it. There are a lot of people who want to place the focus on the field of corruption for change to the General Research Commissioner. I can assure you that the compromise – I am sure – of the Councillor, the very honourable President and the Government is full. And what I'm going to say is that reducing the work of more than two thousand police officers in a name I think is unfair to two thousand police officers. And I think it's important to remember. And it's a disconnection of the function – of the function – of a police cos. But I don't want to end up without a thought. This responds to different, legitimate and legitimate political views. This also responds to party views, which form part..., it would be naive not to place him in a political game. It's much easier to do this than to see the contradictions of seeing what's going on in Cadiz, being in a government where rubber drivers are used, seeing that there is no change in the law for human rights bites... It's much easier, but among all of us we have to work to change it, and we have to find the synergies to do it – it's much easier. But, above all, and what concerns me about the debate, as has been said, is that we are in doubt about the professionalism of the new commands and of the many movements of squadrons. In this faristol, a stone's throw, it has been said that the dome of Mossos d'Esquadra is a "septic pit, from this debate. All those who claim to defend the police and defend their role should reflect on the fact that that was said in this debate. I think that, by reference to the officers and the police body, we should deal with these debates in a much more serene and transformative way. And that's what they'll always find us on. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.197.0	After the debate, then, we shall proceed to the vote on this request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the changes to the summit of the Squadron Mosses and to the General Commission for Criminal Investigation. The vote begins. The application was approved by 128 votes in favour and one person who did not vote. Let's move on, then, to the next point of the order of the day, the set point... (Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.) Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.198.0	Yes, President. Because I touched the presence button in this schooner, but I voted correctly in the other, which is this one that appears here, presence without voting. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.199.0	Oh, okay. We'll take it into account in the countdown. [[Pause. Widow's remorse.]] [[Project for the creation of the Complementary Risks Fund of the Generalitat de Catalunya]] [[200-00001/13]] Let's move on to the agenda item, the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs on the draft law on the creation of the supplementary fund of risks of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate begins with the intervention of a member of the Government. As the Councillor of Economy and History has asked to intervene, has the word Mr Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.200.0	Good morning. Madam President, President, Councillors, Members of Parliament, I will be very brief, because of the law we pass today and the decree of which you are an heir we have not talked enough about in this Chamber, and we have all had occasion to expose our respective positions. I just want to insist on a principle that, as I see it, is in the core of this supplementary risk fund. I'm referring to the principle of compensation. This principle establishes that it is not possible to take reprisals against persons who legitimately exercise their duties while it is not demonstrated that this exercise has been outside the law. In our case, therefore, we are talking about a principle of which is to ensure and preserve that the workers, the functioning, the policies and the tasks of the Generality can work without. It is a principle that ensures that political action can last a long time in freedom and from the convictions of its own, from every one, and not from the threat and the feeling of arbitrariness and defence. The strongest dissolution against democracy, the most lethal corrosive acid against freedom, is por. The reason is the illegitimate argument used by the totalitarian regimes to exclaim personal initiative and prevent opposition and criticism on the part of citizens. And then she shows up when we don't know what to do with her. The fact is that we have the impression that at any time anything can happen to us for any reason. Transferred to politics, it appears when we feel that the State can pursue us for our actions, although it has not been definitively demonstrated that these actions were not legal. And so, paradoxically, the law we pass today is not a political law. The law we pass today is not a political law; the purists of the language would say it is a meta-political law. It's a law that, somehow, is about politics. It is above politics, because this law will be an external stronghold that allows politics to be possible in this Parliament. It is, in this sense, an extraordinarily important law. And I therefore welcome the fact that most of the groups in this House support it today with their vote in favour, or that at least it does not prevent it from coming into force. And I find it hard – I tell you honestly – that there are other groups that, with their opposition and their vote denied, intend to politicize an initiative that has nothing to do with the colors of one party or another. With what you have to see, this law is with democracy and with the right state. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to thank you for your cooperation in drafting the text, and I would like to acknowledge in particular the contributions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Group of Joints for Catalonia. These contributions have allowed us to improve the version originally presented and to compliment all the recommendations made to us by the Council of State Guarantees, which was, in the end, the object of its processing as a draft law. I also want to express my thanks to the Popular Unity and Communal Candidacy groups for their positions in this vote. I'm done. As many of you probably know, the next few will know the Court of Auditors' decision on the guarantees they have presented. I am convinced that these endorsements will be accepted, because I have always believed that in the long run the common sense and justice are being imposed. But I also tell them that, whatever happens, they can hold the certainty of one thing: they can be sure that this law will persist and that it will be an instrument that will allow us all, all of us and any public servant of the future, to work and serve the country with confidence and freedom from a democratic country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.201.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, to present the work of the ponència, has the word the deputy Joan Canadell, who in mad appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.202.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, Counsellor Giró, good morning to everyone. This is the first bill I'm involved in, and, more importantly, it's my job to be the rapporteur, which I've gladly assumed, and now I'm going to put them to account for what this pose has been like. First of all, I would like to remind you that the draft law came from Decree Law 15/2021 of 6 July, which was validated at the plenary session of the Parliament on 29 July, with 74 votes in favour, of the parties..., of the Republican Left, of the Junts per Catalunya, of the CUP; with 19 votes against, of the VOX, of the Ciutadans, of the PP, and 41 abstentions, of the Socialist Party and of the commons. During the same Ple it was decided that it is arranged as draft law, because this, moreover, provides the possibility, as the councillor said, to take into account the advice of the Council of State Guarantees. And here we are, to finish processing and approve it definitively, if, as it seems, we have the majority support of the chamber. It is a draft law that is relatively short: it consists of a preamble, eight articles, two transitory provisions, one derogation, three final provisions and one annex, which is what reverses the application form to the source. The object of this bill is the creation of a supplementary risk fund – it has already been explained – which can deal with the risks not covered by the civil liability insurance policies, assets and accountants subscribed to by the Generality for the purpose of dealing with possible claims that may affect the Generality Administration staff, as well as public sector bodies, other bodies and members of the Government, who, in the exercise of their functions or functions, may be affected in their assets by resolutions or administrative or judicial acts that do not exist with a firm resolution. The proposed Supreme Court, in its judgment of 8 July 2020, states that public servants must be rescued if they suffer damage to their public functions, provided that there is no fault or negligence. But this protection cannot be fulfilled if it cannot be granted the necessary guarantees to deal with the complaints made against the possible victims, so that they can prevent them from causing damage to personal property. To address the responsibilities and legal obligations for the protection of public services, the Generality, as we have said, has subscribed to liability policies that have been sufficient for some years, but this situation, as you know, has been altered, and certain risks are currently being eliminated. Some of the assumptions that cause vulnerability to certain public bodies are those that are affected by the actions of the Court of Auditors, as we have unfortunately seen in recent times. This law, therefore, will provide for the creation of a fund that does not have an initial minimum endowment of 10_million euros, which will need to be maintained annually to ensure this minimum quantity. The management of the fund may be entrusted to a managing entity or may take over it from the department competent in the field of finance, and provisionally, according to its own transitional arrangement, the Catalan Institute of Finance will be entrusted. As long as the possible persons concerned can opt for this complementary basis, the law provides that there is a request for agreement with the fund manager, and must be accompanied by a responsible statement that ensures that the conditions laid down in the first law are fulfilled. If it is correct, the managing entity will create a fund endorsement. From here, as soon as there is a firm court decision, all possible appeals to international jurisdictions are exhausted, if the existence of criminal liability is confirmed it will generate a public right credit for the return of the avalanche emitted. This is the point of the bill that has not sunk the support of the Socialist Group, it has not been possible to trade its item, and in the end they have asked, as I understand it, to keep it alive in today's plenary. While being a relatively short law that has not brought much political debate complexity to the questions, I would like to thank all Members for their involvement in this process, especially for their twenty-seen presentations and contributions to the debate, which certainly enriched the final text. Especially the deputy Jordi Riba, of the Socialist Party, for the ease in the negotiation of the transactions of the papers; the deputy Juli Fernàndez, for the experience of working as a team that he showed at all times during the poenència, and the deputy Eulàlia Reguant and Joan Carles Gallego, for the ease of dialog throughout the poenència. Also gratify the work of the Lletrate Mario Núñez and his team in drawing up the opinion, taking into account all the structural details that will make the law have a more robust text facing possible questions in some court. Also thank the work of the linguistic proofreaders, who have made a true work of art, to the great name of corrections they have called. Finally, as a summary, I would like to say that three meetings have taken place at the meeting – on the 25th and 28th of January, the last day was the 8th of February – in which these twenty-eighth issues were taken into account, of which up to five will be dealt with, which have been incorporated into the text of the opinion and which form part of the text defined in this draft law. And finally, thanking the Councillor He turned his determination in the preparation of the initial decree, which was approved in the Government and also later in the House of Commons, and the subsequent management of his team for the rapid processing of the ponència, the result of which, I think, we could be very pleased. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.203.0	The parliamentary groups which have set aside statements to defend the House will now intervene. The first word is Mr Jordi Riba, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.204.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor and advisor, deputies, deputies... With the debate and subsequent vote on this bill of creation of the supplementary fund of risk of the Government of Catalonia, we find ourselves at the end of the process of this rule. In the debates planned – as explained in the statements by both the Councillor and the rapporteur – that we have maintained on this law, there has been the validation of the decree and the debate to the totality. In this already talked enough about who are the object and the purpose that by putting this foundation is intended to achieve. Notwithstanding this, we believe that it is opportune and necessary to reiterate this question once more. First of all, the need or desirability of creating this fund solely and exclusively in response to the fact that, on 11 October 2017, the insurance company which until then ensured these risks unilaterally terminated the coverage of the risks to the directive of the Government of Catalonia as a – and I quote literally – « as a result of the very serious worsening of the risk caused by recent events in Catalonia. It is not possible to remember five events of October 2017 by reference. And I quote from what risks we are talking about, according to what is stated in Article 3 of the Law: "Body and material damage and the direct consequences of such damage, as well as pure economic damage, does not result in such damage caused by action or omission of third persons in the exercise of their activity, as well as professional civil liability, whenever they have been in the legal exercise of the functions entrusted to them. What we are doing, therefore, today is to approve the law that restores a risk cover for the generality's directive and other functions that until October 2017 was already covered by the public, let's say, orders, so as to ensure and give coverage to public servers – and I want to put emphasis on the fact that it gives coverage to all public servers – in the responsibilities that may arise from the legal exercise of their functions or responsibilities. As I said to the beginning, stress and reiterate what we are doing: restore this coverage. Because, in most of the interventions that we will then listen to, for one band, the feeling of this law is that it is an epic response to a supposed repression and persecution of the State, and, for the other, of the willingness to make citizens believe just the opposite, which is a law that must be used to pay the economic sanctions derived from acts related to the process. And not one thing or the other is true, even though they represent two caresses of the same coin. Much as some are going to continue feeding the processist confrontational axes in order to continue feeding the respective parishes, it is no less certain that today we are doing something so operational or so composed of such a little history of independence as to secure a guarantee, even though with the exception of the fact that there are no companies that still want to do so, we have had to create an alternative mechanism to supplement this coverage as it existed, as I said before, on October 2017, and as many other autonomous communities of Spain, as we would surely find many countries in Europe or Oceania, if you wanted; no less. It should also be pointed out that the decree which he gave at the beginning of the processing of this law was the subject of the analysis by the Board of State Guarantees. The Council drew up an opinion in which it made a clear statement on the legality of the creation of the fund and the mechanisms envisaged to activate it. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Progress Units, we have always expressed with responsibility the need to adapt all the institutions' actions – in this case, the Government and Parliament – to legality. Menystaining this principle places us in close positions of majorityism – as Rousseau asked The Social Contract – or of decisionsisms from which it is postulated that the majority is empowered to make any type of decision without the rules of the game, that is, of the legal order. But precisely for this very requirement of respect for legality, when the Council of State Guarantees, which has the statutory function of deciding at Parliament's request on the standards that are being passed and their suitability for the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution – and it does – is pronouncing favorably respect for the adjustment to the legal order of a rule, for us it is a politically transcendent issue. Whether their content pleases us as if it were less, they will not find our group in statements in the sense that, as the Council's opinions are not binding, they do not – not on the part of one or the other. In the same way that the general view of the legality of the rule is important, it is also important for us, as we have expressed in the debate to the whole, to take into account the recommendations made by the council. For this reason, processing was requested as the bill of law of the decree, in order to be able to incorporate the recommendations of the same council. In this sense, in the processing of the law and in the petition – as Mr Canadell pointed out a few minutes ago – the papers have been incorporated, and there have been other transactions with the same objective, which, in our view, were necessary to compliment the incorporation of the recommendations of the Council of State Guarantees. Therefore, our demand to improve the law and improve its lawfulness has sunk in very good measure – not in totality, but in good measure. It has incorporated the better regulation of the return of money that is eventually endorsed by the fund in case of guilt. Questions relating to the handling of requests for a procedure and a resolution have been incorporated, thus avoiding possible automation that could be inferred from the initial text of the decree and also respecting the functions of the Catalan Institute of Finance. In addition, the statements of our group regarding the time when the return of the money eventually advanced to the fund must be required to comply with the execution of the sentence have not been collected in the report of the complaint. We consider that placing at this moment, that of the return of the money, at the moment when a firm feeling is produced in ordinary way is essential. We believe that the firm judgment is a decisive legal act to place this return obligation, and that, in order to ensure the integrity of economic interests – public interest, therefore – and of the legal security of the Generality, it should be unambiguous when this return obligation is produced. We are sure, for another band, that any insurance company that you make or do in the future the coverage of this risk will return no more or less than this process point. Therefore, we will keep the reservation to the vote on these items in the vote on this law. I repeat, for us, the moment in which the obligation to return money made available to the Generality is to be originated in order to cover any type of risk that would arise when there is a firm feeling. In order to finish my intervention, and in reference to a question that we do not want you to remain in doubt either in this chamber or above all, and especially, before the citizenry: in no case – I insist, in any case – the Government of Catalonia will assume no economic cost defined for the coverage of the risks foreseen in this fund. Clearly, if you want: the Generalitat, from this law and from this foundation, will not pay the responsibilities of any type of public servant; what is done, what is provided is the possibility of valuing economic responsibilities while – and only while – they resolve these possible responsibilities judicially or administratively. A few of these responsibilities can pass only two things – only two –: a resolution of guilt or exculpatory. In the first case, the mechanisms for returning money to the Generality fund are activated by the public server that has been incorrect in these possible responsibilities; in the second case, an exculpatory resolution implies, logically, the return by the Administration of Justice of any guarantee that is required, and therefore its reintegration into the Risk Fund. As we said, we believe that we need to cover the risks of all public servants, but we are also firmly convinced that public servants must govern their actions with responsibility and, above all, with respect for legal order. It is the wish of our group that this foundation and this law should, in short, be – I am working on a parenthesis – I do not know if a very important law...; we hope that the most pointless thing that has been approved in this Parliament is the most pointless of all, because it is never necessary to resort to its use for excellence in management and decision-making and, above all, for accuracy in accordance with the legal order of the other branches of the Government covered by this foundation in the past, in the present and in the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.205.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.206.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor Giró... Well, today we arrive at the end of the street of a law, of a proposal, a bill of law of the Government that today, with all probability, will count on the support of a majority of this chamber, which is an ad hoc law, a law made to rescue policies that, in the exercise of its public function, have, in the end, committed acts contrary to the legal order. As much as some agree to wear this law with a supposed democratic legitimity, with a supposed legality, it is clear that the object of this law is to be covered, to keep the scales covered in the face of possible defeats against the state of law, against the democratic state of law, as it was the year 2017, the late of 2017, of this Parliament. Therefore, we consider that this law is a law that tempts against principles such as legal certainty, such as institutional neutrality, such as compensation for public administration and its functions. In short, it is against the fundamental values of a democratic state of law, because what is intended is, in the end, to guarantee impunity and to guarantee the compensation not of public officials, but of elected policies in successive elections, in order to be able to do everything that seems appropriate from their preeminent position in the public sphere. Precisely commented on the spokesman of the Socialist Party..., ugly element of decision-making. Indeed, I believe that this law has the pretence to allow the decision-making to make and undo its making to our community. And from this point of view, we decided to present a sequence of messages; in fact, an alternate text, an item to the totality in which we presented an alternate text. In this alternative text, I believe that we have substantially improved the legal coverage of our employees, of career employees; in short, of all those who, in the exercise of their public functions, may be exposed to committing acts by mistake, omission or, in the end, error in the exercise of their functions. But, of course, we are in favour of protecting the officials who can make these mistakes, but we are in favour of protecting policies that do not respect the legal order and that make decisions knowing that they are against the general interest, that they are illegal, directly, and that, ultimately, they are against the interest of the city of Catalonia. Therefore, rescuing a policy that attacks the general interest, rescuing a policy that attacks the legal order, is an authentic contrast, it is an authentic disarray, and in fact it is, in practice, a fraud of law. Therefore, this law, in short, what it constitutes, from the outset, is a fraud of law. And that's why we have radically opposed the approval of this law, in the terms it was laid down. If the Government of Catalonia continued to hold the trust of the financial entities, this law would not have anything. And it's you, Mr. Giró, with all due respect – in fact, you weren't there, but... –, your predecessors in charge, those who have caused this loss of confidence by the insurers in the Government of the Generality. I believe that the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenry ends up paying the consequences of its irresponsibleness, in short, is not reasonable, is not fair and is not equal. I believe that what I would have expected this law... It is true that the representative of the Socialist Party said: that we need coverage for our employees, that they can act with the peace of mind that they will not have to respond with their personal assets to their actions, that they are necessary for the functioning of the Public Administration. It seems absolutely indisputable. And for this reason, in our alternative text, we have made it clear that there is a committee that evaluates who can be subject, let us say, to this legal protection. But our views, of course... our alternate text was rejected on the side of the forces that support the government, and we regret that there has not been so much debate in this sense. We certainly consider that the argument that you are fully naturally defending, that it is the fact that you tell us that the Generality does not denounce or present itself as an accusation against persons who commit criminal acts or allegedly criminal acts... I believe that, in the end, when there are acts that are contrary to the legal order, the Generality has the obligation, the Advocate of the Generality has the obligation to defend public interest, to defend the general interest of citizens, even though it is, let us say to ourselves, in the defence of certain causes or theses which are proclivious to their vision of reality. It is that, if not, we are ahead, once more, of the debate of the thirty years of the century passed to Europe, among the decisions proposed by the German jurist Carl Schmitt, of infamous record in many respects, but that it is true that he was a jurist who, if not more, beyond his more perverse ideological view, had arguments that were accessible... but I believe that the debate was overcome by the fact that Hans Kelsen said that political acts were always to be undermining the law, the rule of law and, ultimately, the scrutiny of the courts, that they are the ones that guarantee the rights and freedoms of the city council. For this reason, in our text, what we ask is that there is no such propensity for the arbitrariness of public powers, for the arbitrariness of policies chosen by political designation. And we believe that this also has to affect, logically, the chosen roles for the policies that govern us. We believe, in short, that the approval of this law generates legal insecurity to the citizen of Catalonia, generates a precedent that in practice what it does, basically, is to lay the basis for a new attack on the democratic state of law, a guarantee, a tranquillity, a situation of comfort and trust for the politicians who can hold in their heads the idea or the possibility to reattach the legal order, to attack the democratic state of law. And from this point of view, we have considered that it was our responsibility, as well as precisely defending the democratic constitutional order, to present this alternative text to prevent the shooting of this project, I insist, that it constitutes, for us, a fraud of law. As a general reflection, counselor – and I would not like to extend – we sincerely believe that the way to restore confidence in our autonomous government, in our autonomous administration, is not precisely to continue with the practices relating to a minimum principle of institutional neutrality, a basic principle of equanimity in the performance of public powers. And we believe, precisely, that this law clearly goes against this prestige, this good image that our institutions should have, which has been precisely maligned. The infirmity of insurance companies is not random, and you know it perfectly well, because, moreover, you have had important responsibilities in a company, in an important financial entity, logically also linked to the coverage of public administration risks. And it's obvious that when a public administration... its rulers are committing criminal acts or potentially contrary to democratic order, that creates mistrust. And we believe that this bill is precisely in the line of reinforcing the feeling that Catalonia has the intention of continuing to commit acts contrary to democratic order, constitutional order. And we do not believe that this helps in absolute terms the image, the good image, and the redemption, in short, of the prestige and preaching that our autonomous institutions must hold. That's why, counselor, we can't give support to this law. We regret that there is not even the slightest interest in analysing some of the things that we say, that basically, we insist, we believe that any city in Catalonia that we ask: "You agree that a cover paid with public money, with an entry fee of 10_million euros, can give cover to acts that are contrary or potentially contrary to democratic order made with conscience, knowing positively that what you are doing is contrary to legal order? ... I think that any citizen of Catalonia would say to us, together with the political forces that we are in this represented chamber, that no, that from the standpoint of the ways it is possible to admit that a law continues to take hold of it, follow the cover because a policy can act with arbitrariness, that it can act no longer with discretion, but directly with arbitrariness. I think the city of Catalonia would agree. And for this reason, in the defence of this general interest of Catalonian citizenship, we presented this alternative text, which, unfortunately, has not been attended by the rest of the parliamentary forces, and which, in the end, will not result in any change in its initial proposal. In any case, we'll see how the facts turn out, but we're sorry and we're afraid that this will be, let's say, the cover for us to attack the democratic state of right. And that's all for us, Counselor, Members of Parliament. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.207.0	Thank you very much. Then, and to fix their position, they have the word the rest of parliamentary groups, for a maximum of five minutes, starting for the Parliamentary Group of VOX. The word has the deputy Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.208.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Advisors, deputies... Esquerra and Junts participated in the achievement of a coup d'état in 2017. Yes, you, who fill their mouths with democracy, tried to break the law, break the Spanish nation and thus end our democracy. Throughout the morning I have heard various references to the 1930s. The 1930s... one comes to mind, so, on the 34th, October the 34th, right? For example, too, right? That is, there is also a history of coup on the part of Esquerra Republicana, a party to which the president of the Generalitat of Catalonia belongs. It's nothing new. In the year 17, those who participated in that coup were condemned by the Supreme Court for sedition and embezzlement of public revenues. They all ended up in jail, where they should stay. It was believed that the thugs used everyone's money to perpetrate their immoral, repugnant and undemocratic attack on democracy. Its head inmates allocated huge amounts of money to their coup fantasy while thousands of Catalans suffered from poverty, social exclusion and other problems. The Court of Auditors has also credited the misappropriation of the public revenues of several members of the governments of Catalonia between 11 and 17. They used public funds for the external promotion of the subsequent coup d'état. Specifically, the court required 5.4 million of these gentlemen. In short, what he demanded was that they return the wrongdoer. That is the context in which this arbitrary and shameful background is created. That's the context, not another. This Supplementary Risk Fund that we are discussing today is an instrument that is created, as I said before, ad hoc to cover the embezzlement of today's coups and those that will be in the morning, to cover... What do you want to cover? Which no insurance company dares to cover. And it is no coincidence that this law, this mechanism, exists only in Catalonia. There is no autonomous community in Spain that needs to do this kind of legal floriture, because their respective politicians of all political signs and colors, man, calculate that they are going to move within what is the framework of legality. Here, no; here we need, therefore, this kind of funds to have some coverage that was lost, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party said before, precisely in October of the 17th. The insurance companies and the banks said: "I do not assure these people. Here's the background. For VOX this is a legal aberration, and it is an aberration that they use public money to cover guarantees for fraudulent use of public money. And that is why we have brought this text, at the moment, to the Constitutional Court. We'll see if it's legal or not. To me, the opinion of the Court of Statutory Guarantees seems very good to me. Well, perfect: you respect, you read, you understand. Well, perfect, but where it has to do is in the Constitutional Court, and that's where we're going to see if this is okay or wrong. No one understands that you commit illegalities and then the responsibilities are paid by all Catalans through this kind of funds. And much less because... And I say: "Why will we pay? Because these channels of international challenge, right? , can be extended in aeternum. You always place a very clear emphasis on the issue, on international jurisdiction. I mean, you and I know that from the first sentence to the last, that you don't even know which instance we're talking about, it's going to be years, years and years. Therefore, public money will be used. To us, as I said before, Mr Councillor, it seems to us, at last, a decree..., regrettably, that the Government of Catalonia must articulate these kinds of funds in order to go to the rescue of convicted criminals. Finally, there is one question that does not surprise us either: is to see how the Socialist Party of the Government of Spain is acting on this issue, is it not? Not surprisingly, we are not surprised that the Generalitat makes these legal comma, but also – and I have to say this – it is quite regrettable that the Spanish Government, through the State's Law, has decided to lift the 5,4_million question, huh? This does not surprise us, that Pedro Sánchez goes to the rescue of the condemned. We hope that the last remaining instance, the Prosecutor's Office, will not do the same and that this case will not be dismissed as well. We have not tabled any amendments. The text was not improveable, only disposable. Our opposition is infinite. And, therefore, we will see each other in the Constitutional Court, which is where these things have to be seen. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.209.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.210.0	Well, thank you. Good morning. Thirdly, we have the same law, which has not changed as much as we have innovated in the arguments. In fact, we have already seen that no one innovates in arguments; even those who are heretics of Francoism are allowed to give us lessons of democracy. We left – and we said it twice that we talked about this decree law, now proposal or draft law – that it is a decree law that does something that should be normal, but that starts from an anomaly. It is part of the anomaly of repression that has been seen in this country for years, where some have systematically used all the resources they have found in their abst to pursue independence, to pursue their political adversary. They have used provincial courts, they have used higher courts, they have used the Supreme Court, the National Court, the electoral assemblies. And, then, the Court of Auditors, which is not a court, which is not a judicial body, comes out of the way to pursue independence. All that they find in their abyss. That's why it's like a little curiosity that someone talks about court scrutiny when it comes to the Court of Auditors, because it's not a judicial body – it's not a judicial body. We have already explained on various occasions that, in addition, it is part of a more questionable cadre division, where we find different characters linked to other characters in the Spanish political history of a very concrete political bias. That is why it leads us to think that the Court of Auditors is not a judicial body, but that it is an endogenous body. It's an endogenous organ where, as a minimum, of the seven hundred workers, a hundred have family members in it. Fourteen_per_cent of the Court of Auditors in the family fund within; therefore, this logic of endogenous organ. Where, among others, as I said before, there is José María Aznar's sister-in-law, and we could continue to find links between different policies that it is better not to remember. But, besides, it's an arbitrary organ, because it's an organ that decides what is possible external action and what is not possible external action without legal criteria and, at the same time, going for the big brocce. Travel the year 2014 of President Mas to States Units before the 9-N consultation. It's basically intended for commercial purposes – which most likely my organization wouldn't share commercial objectives. They ask him, at the exit, the communication media for the 9-N consultation, and he answers the questions. It is a journey that, from expenses, is around 75,000 euros; 75,000 euros that the Court of Auditors has decided that they are punishable and that they are in this bag, when the object of the journey was a commercial object. Therefore, the Court of Auditors arbitrarily decides what it is and what is not possible external action, and therefore what it means to impose as a fine and what it does not, without any legal criteria at a later stage. But it's that, in addition to... an external action pursued by different courts at the same time economically valued in different ways. The Court of Auditors decides that it is 5.4_million, but then there are provincial courts that decide that it is 6_million. Therefore, double fine, but more so, with different criteria. Therefore, this is one of the things that needs to be taken into account. And let me, in the end, make a bond that may sound a little strange, but today for us it goes down. Because we are talking about repression, about the impacts of repression, but we also need to consider who explained this repression. And in 2020, a media outlet won the Barcelona City Award for its information excellence in the post-sentence protest march. Today, this media outlet that won the City of Barcelona award is seeing political parties that govern the city of Barcelona and those that are also in the municipal plethora, that do nothing..., are becoming systematically workers: new arrivals in July and 12 weeks ago. BTV leaves and has information excellence, and what it is to defend it, as it is to defend us before repression. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.211.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word, now, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.212.0	Well, good afternoon. I think we would do well to debate this bill of law, this law – I suppose it will be from here a moment away – from the point of view of its ultimate objective, not of why. We can discuss the reasons, and here we can certainly discuss them politically, and we will certainly do so, but we may first have to discuss what we want, say, this law. And we want it, I understand, to give full guarantees, full coverage, to the professional exercise of the employees and public employees in their professional, concrete and direct action; to give them - full coverage because they can exercise their professionalism at the margin of external pressures, whatever they are – political or whatever they are. They must exercise their professionalism with full freedom. I, therefore, must be able to have guarantees, coverage, to achieve it. And I understand that's what we're doing with this fund, because we're starting from an anonymous situation where we had to make this cover stop doing it, for what it's for, and we need to find a mechanism to guarantee it, and it's well done. We need this mechanism. Public employees need to have a mechanism that gives them full coverage and guarantee. And that's what I think it's about, and it's what it does. And, therefore, we are not satisfied that this foundation has been created. When the decree was debated, we abstained, because we understood that there was room for improvement from the point of view of the Council of Statutory Guarantees. I believe that the current wording introduces these improvements and I believe that it allows us, with ease, to position ourselves there in favour. It is true that, in the exercise of professionalism in full freedom, this will give guarantees and coverage. It's also true that we can't stay here. There will be other measures on the ground of the management of the own Catalan public function that must guarantee this exercise and the professionalism fully free. Someday we'll have to talk about how we break up the Catalan civil service, huh? , as we guarantee that employees and public employees can precisely work with full freedom and guarantees of professionalism from a modern administration – not partisan, modern. This will be another topic; we will not discuss it today, because today this is not what it is about. But let us understand that this is a piece of a puzzle that will also need to be corrected: to break up the Catalan Public Administration, to improve the working conditions of employees and public employees, to place the mechanisms of relationship between the Administration and its employees and public employees through its representatives, the right to collective bargaining of employees..., will be other fish of the puzzle that will need to be addressed in the future if we want to modernise the Catalan Public Administration and want public employees, of the level that follows, to serve the public interests of the citizenry, ultimately. But we have before us this piece of the puzzle that is essential and that is necessary, because it gives this coverage, and, moreover, it does so in a transparent way and with full guarantees of compliments of legality in the exercise of professionalism. That's why it looks good to us. That said, we will also vote on the two points that the PSC has presented that are kept alive, because we understand the logic of giving these guarantees and this coverage in accordance with the principle of transparency and also with the compliment of the principle of legality, and, therefore, underlying, say, the existence of a firm court ruling that determines the level or limitation in the exercise of this coverage. And the second question: also the need to establish a time limit, once this firm judicial sentence has been established, for the return of the established guarantees. We will therefore vote in favour of these proposals, regardless of whether we believe that the rest of the opinion will be in favour of it, because we believe that we urgently need to have this law, above all public employees, who need full guarantees and coverage in the exercise of their professionalism. And more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.213.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.214.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that I will be quite brief, because you know that I have not been rapporteur on this law, although I do know the content. We have had time to discuss this issue in recent months and we also had a decree that came to this Parliament. And, therefore, I will be brief, because, in addition, you also know the position that our group has. I believe that you have devised the formula so that, as a result, some 30 high offices, investigated by the Court of Auditors for embezzlement of public money, will leave on this occasion of rositas, or at least not have to face up to those endorsements that the Court of Auditors requests. If you put the same commitment, the same creativity and the same imagination with all the real problems that we do have in Catalonia, it is that I am convinced that we would do much better. What's going on, that you're only always focused absolutely on the same thing, and, unfortunately, that's how it goes, Counsellor Giró. Well, so far you were using what you have been calling a solidarity box, which was nothing more than asking Catalans in good faith to spend their money to save your skin. Of course, they have so much expressed this solidarity box that it does not reach them now. And since private financial institutions don't want to endorse them anymore, since 2017 – I wonder why, Mr. Giró, and I think the answer we all know – because then you now take this Risk Fund out of the sleeve, don't you? It comes to be like a solidarity box 2.0, where you are no longer some Catalans who voluntarily finance your trophies, but now pretend that all Catalans will pay you the separatist feast. I tell you, with our vote it's not going to be – it's not going to be. And it is true that there are some amendments that have been tabled that seem to us to be correct. It is true that perhaps this instrument in the hands of another government would seem useful, but of course, as long as you are not who you are and the background you have is not what you have. I insist that perhaps this instrument might have seemed good to us at another time, but surely it would not be necessary now, that instrument, because you would certainly have these guarantees from private financial institutions. I believe that right now, as the situation is, and I insist, with the trajectory you carry, putting this background in your hands is like giving a match to a pyromaniac. I also said this the other day during the committee, when we voted on the opinion, I insist again on the same thing: if no private entity has wanted to endorse them, and I think it has been with good judgment, why do we have to do all the Catalans? Of course, I insist, we are not going to participate in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.215.0	Thank you very much. It is now the return of Mr Joan Canadell, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.216.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... our public servants must be able to do their job without, as the Counselor has already told us, he turned into this chamber, today and again. And this includes defending any aspect including the current legal order, and especially for what it does to external action, which it clearly recognizes to the Statute of Catalonia, or also to the right of self-determination, including the Spanish Constitution. In effect, the 1945 United Nations Charter was signed for the Spanish State in the year 90, as was the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the year 1977. And what do you say, the United Nations card? Therefore, in its first article, on the proposals, it is clear that it is necessary to encourage between the nations relations of friendship based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, and to take all measures aimed at strengthening the world pau. And so the international pact of civil and political rights such as the international pact of economic, social and cultural rights have an identical wording, which is the following: "All peoples have the right of self-determination. By virtue of this right, they freely determine their political status and seek their economic, social and cultural development. Certainly he talks about people in general, and not about colonies, as the unionism sector sometimes wants us to believe. But when it comes to the defence of the right of self-determination of the people, Spain is on the verge of "everything for the country and certain judicial and Spanish administrations do not always act in accordance with the legal order. In fact, these days, when we live from distance and stupefaction the case of the brother of President Ayuso, it does not seem that the Court of Auditors or other Spanish bodies have acted as offices to investigate the truth. And that's why we're here, because organizing a non-binding consultation like the 9-N consultation in 2014 in a state like Spain involves strong economic sanctions at 34 charges of the Catalan Administration, with a total import of 5.4_million euros. And we all know that this is not normal, and that European justice will fall on it, but while these thirty-four families are not patenting the consequences severely. Likewise, we must add the more than 3,300 reprisals for the process. The generality's insurance policies do not provide for this type of coverage, because the insurers certainly see that we are not in a normal country. Because, in fact, more than 1 million people on 9-N, challenging the Spanish government, having a vote in a cart box made the answer clearly abnormal. He probably wanted to be a navigator's warning to his own intent, but we already know that the action was not effective, because October 1st we did another repetition, this time in the form of a binding reference, with more than 2,2_million votes. And we know that in order to be a definitively normal country, we will have to become an independent state. And that's why we presented ourselves on February 14 with an independent program and got fifty-two percent of Parliament's votes to carry out this mandate. And while we do not agree on how to make the republic effective, we need to approve laws like this, which allow us to protect public servers, which do act democratically normally. The decree, moreover, was endorsed by the Council of State Guarantees, as has already been said, unanimously, and this gives even more strength to this law and protects it from the unionist parties of "all for the country that are present in this chamber. Only European justice fully guarantees the rights of our public servants, as it has done in all the judgements of the process that they have heard. And we are convinced that they will remain on the same line in the very future, and that it will be very important for democracy in Catalonia. Yesterday, we had a very good news: a feeling from the ECJ says that, before an extradition dispatcher – so much so that he likes to do to the Llarena judge –, it is necessary to prove whether there are well-founded reasons to believe that there is a real risk of violation of a law. And among the elements to be taken into account about the possible lack of impartiality of the court that will have to judge it, the EUJ specifically addresses the statements and public positions made by the members who are part of it. As Gonzalo Boye says, "Let's get ready for crickets. For all this, we have not been able to accept the message of the PSC in Article 5.1, which wanted to exclude the hope of possible sentences of international courts at the time of applying the return of credits from this source, and would therefore eliminate the only real protection we have for Catalan citizens when we want to carry the exercise of the right to the maximum democratic odds. I'm done. European justice is slow, but it is fair. For the first time the fact of trusting in European justice is giving good results. They confirm that President Puigdemont's strategy was good. And I want to remind them that the president has also defended another strategy that is proving to be better than the empty dialog: the intelligent confrontation. Let us prepare ourselves, therefore, so that we are able to complete the process, and it is very urgent, by democracy, and also to be able to build a new country with the well-being that deserves an economy of the most advanced in Europe, as has been and continues to feel Catalan. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.217.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.218.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... I had no intention of starting this way, but I think that 23-F, forty-one years after a coup d'état, talking about coup d'état referring to the U of October, forty-one years after entering the Civil Guard and the army at the Congress of Armed Deputies and to combat democratic recovery, is, if not, frivolous. And from here on out, a thank you to all the people who fought against the franchise. [[Some applause.]] Your nets, nets, kids and girls here continue, fighting against the franchise. Today, if it is not for the obstructionism of Spanish nationalism, in this Parliament we will approve the two first laws of 2022, the first of the legislature after the draft assumptions. Two different laws, but with a common motto, that is to guarantee the exercise of politics and rights and to provide citizens with all the tools so that they can improve their lives. And I do so in spite of a judicial power, an ideological judiciary, a judiciary that in many instances is captured from the right and the ultra-right, as we have seen here in this Parliament, that the competence to determine who is and who is not guilty, when the facts that we have before are the result of an exceptional situation, such as repression and the use of any means to combat those that are politically uncomfortable with them, is a matter of great concern. And that is what the Council of State Guarantees said in its opinion concerning an administrative body. He said: "If there is anyone who acts irregularly, it is the Court of Auditors..., which, as it is recalled in this opinion, has a function that is not punitive, but rather of bailing out the damaged Administration. Therefore, the 9-N sensations in their moment, the relations with the external action that today occupy us, also, have a natural clearly punitive. They did so to pursue in revenge mode the public servants of our country and want to rob a personal property to cover some ordinary and legal expenses of the Generality. I repeat: ordinary and legal expenses of the Generalitat, exercising their functions within the legality, making it that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia binds to public workers and public workers, to political representatives. So, before this situation, what we do is we have all the tools and all the tools to protect public servers, to make public servers do what they legally have the capacity to do. And that's this supplementary risk fund. We have been able to work with those who participated in the committee. Therefore, a thanks also to the representative of the Socialist Party, because I believe that we have reached consensus, although we have not agreed on what is the last moment of instance. I believe that, from our point of view..., a discrepancy that, while you may believe that in this way you defend the Spanish legal order, from our point of view we believe that it is a wrong point of view, because the European mark is the last judicial institution to be European, and it may seem that such a time you do not have the will to recognize this space, despite the fact that it is the legal order of the State, that of the European authorities. Therefore, our parliamentary group, as it cannot be otherwise, will support this text. Many thanks, counselor; thanks, deputies and deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.219.0	All right. So, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We have ordered the votes so that, first of all, we will vote on the reserved items for parliamentary groups; then we will vote on a technical item for the parliamentary groups in the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia on the title of the bill, and, finally, we will vote on the text of the opinion. We shall therefore begin the vote by voting together on the items reserved for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, which are number 12 and number 19. The vote begins. These items have been rejected, with 40 votes in favour and 86 votes against. We now jointly vote on the reserved papers for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27 and 28. The vote begins. These items have been rejected, with 8 votes in favour, 108 votes against and 10 abstentions. We are voting for the technical paper presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Left Parliamentary Group on the title of the bill. The vote begins. This technical question was approved, with 110 votes in favour and 16 votes against. We are voting now, in response to the separate motion for a vote made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the first paragraph of Article 5 of the opinion. The vote begins. This petition was approved, with 70 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The remaining text of the opinion was adopted, with 110 votes in favour and 16 votes against. [[Some applause.]] As soon as the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen are convened, we will resume the session at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.220.0	Very nice late. [[Proposition of the law to extend urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency]] [[202-00005/13]] Sorry I'm late. We had to do just before, precisely, we had to deal with this item on the agenda, the eighth item on the agenda, the debate and the vote on the opinion of the Committee on Social Rights on the proposal for an extension of urgent measures to deal with housing emergencies. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, to present the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the first sentence is given by the Member of the European Parliament, who has been appointed by the rapporteur, the Member of the European Parliament Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.221.0	Thank you, President. Thanks, deputies and deputies, and people who are listening to us, some of a lot of compromises, today between the public. Above all, and I believe that we can say with all due respect, in these words, the opinion in the plenary, the opinion of the Committee on Social Rights on the law on the extension of urgent measures to combat the emergence in the field of housing. Today, the full text of the law that began its process on July 8th, in order to overcome the debate to the full, returns to this Ple. I am making this speech as a rapporteur of the law, and then I will make a more political assessment on behalf of my parliamentary group. Okay. As you know, this law proposal is inherited from Decree 17/2019, promoted the previous legislature for the government, according to the entities working in the field of housing emergence. It was partially suspended by the Constitutional Court for a matter of form, not content. And, just at the beginning of the steps of this legislature, four parliamentary groups – Esquerra, Juntes, the CUP and the common ones – from the hands of those same entities, we recorded and presented on the press round in this chamber this proposal of law with an explicit compromise: I would follow, as is the rule, all the steps of the parliamentary debate. And so it has been. It went beyond the debate to the totality. And, therefore, the Social Rights Commission constituted the same july and approved public hearings. From the first of September, four public hearings were held – on the 10th, 13th, 17th and 20th of September – which were broadcast live and which can be found hanging on Parliament's website because everyone can listen and follow the debates that took place there. Any one who appeared, both those who watched it and those who didn't, could get documentation and his intervention by writing to the board of the pose. I quote, for the information of everyone, but above all also to the kind of grace on behalf of the whole population, those who appeared with whom we counted in those sessions, starting with the social entities or from the area of the right to housing: the Table of Entities of the Third Social Sector, the Union of Llogateres, the Union of Llogateres del Penedès, the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, Habitat International Coalition, the Observers DESC and Sogeviso. And also public bodies or representatives, such as the Habitatge and Salutation Group of the Public Health Agency of Barcelona; Judge Guillem Soler; Ms. Lucía Martín, director of Habitatge and Rehabilitation of the Barcelona Assembly; Ms. Glòria Rubio, director of Habitatge of the Sabadell Assembly; Ms. Lidia Muñoz, mayor of Sant Feliu de Llobregat and president of Habitatge Metropolis Barcelona, and Mr. Àlex Barceló, director of Habitatge and Urbanism of the Salt Assembly. As well as professional colleges and associations of property ownership, such as the Housing Commission of Catalonia's Official Social Work College, the Council of Colleges of Directors of Finques de Catalunya, the Council of Colleges of Agents of Catalonia's Property Property, the General Council of Cambres of Catalonia's Urban Property and the Association of Promotors of Catalonia, as well as associations or representatives of affections, such as the Jèssica Casals – spokesman of the families affected by that annulation of the Decree of 17/2019–, the driving group of the ILP 24/2015, the Platform of Affections for Mortgage and the Alliance against Energy Poverty. And, lastly, we also counted on the intervention of various experts, such as Martí Batllori, Carme Trilla, Sergio Nasarre, Jordi Bosch, Vicente Pérez, Agustí Jover and Josep Maria Raya. In total, twenty-seven entities or experts are expected to participate. At the end of these appearances, the period of exams was opened, during which more than fifty exams were presented. Those who were admitted to court for the Bureau of the Commission came to court, and this one held up to five sessions of debate and work – October 19, November 9, November 29, generation 17, and generation 19. At the length of these sessions the discussions have been discussed, and they have been recommended, withdrawn, not recommended, or negotiated on the basis of the debates and the pattern that have marked the majorities in question, so as to arrive at the committee with a job done, which you allow, on the last tram, a political debate on those aspects of dissent and a more precise picture of the consensus and disagreements that gathers the law's proposal. Eight months, in total, of a proposal that, initially, was qualified as an extraordinary urgency. No one will be able to say that there has not been a profound debate, but I think it is a waste that in the chapter of self-criticism we also reflect on the fact that it has been so hard to get to this tram that today we are celebrating and that we have seen until now there have been obstacles to the way. I would therefore like, above this sound, to explain a little the content of the bill's proposal, which is the most important thing for the citizenry. Let's update the definition of ‘great tenor' so the speculators don't know what to do. It is difficult for some of the practices that have been observed to escape, for example, from the consideration of empty habitat, and to seek, above all, to bring forth floors each day of today's shutdowns. We establish the obligation to offer a social logue to vulnerable families before resorting to the judicial process, an obligation that will be well monitored by joint and general authorities and will have different conditions depending on whether the great owner is a natural, non-speculative or speculative legal person, such as the financial and satellite entities, since we understand that the real estate market should not be their field of activity or, at least, that they have already received public money. The social logger will no longer be for three years, but will be able to arrive until the five or the set, and it will be able to extend if the objective conditions of vulnerability continue. And we're setting up incentives and incentives for the social lobby that will mean that the Catalonia Habitat Agency will be able to rent low floors of big estates to get them to join, whenever they give up the legal process. Of course, here those I have qualified before as'specults' would be left on the sidelines. Without extending myself further, as the rapporteur of the law put it, to thank the efforts of the deputies who have participated in the inquiry, all the workers of the parliamentary services who have assisted and accompanied us in this process, the Social Rights Commission for having trusted us, the entities for the right to housing – which they have taken up until the end – and all the agents who have made contributions to it. I have just asked you to vote in favour of the opinion. Let's go to the counter-lock. Time is running out, and outside these walls are many families pending approval of this law. At the same time, I don't want to be saying that we want, from the moment we ask, the deployment of this law on the part of the government. And, as it cannot be otherwise, also demand respect for the sovereignty of this Parliament in the exercise of the competences attributed to us. And that I think is especially important to say today. It won't be a easy way. We have seen in the last hours of parliamentary filibusterism against a law that seeks to expand rights for the citizenry. But we have in this Parliament a broad consensus in the defence and guarantee of the right to housing. And, therefore, to defend the sovereignty of Parliament is to defend the right to housing, and vice versa, to defend this right to housing is essential that all of us conjure ourselves to ensure the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.222.0	The parliamentary groups which have reserved defence items in the House will then intervene. First, there is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.223.0	Thank you, President. Very nice late. Councillor Cervera, Councillors, President, Deputies and Deputies... Entities that are with us today, welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia, and a very special greeting to the companies of the PAH. Today in Parliament is a great day, and more so for many citizens and citizens, for many of our lives and our lives. This is because we are approving to the plenary the proposal of the law to extend urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency. But, look, today I have a bitter feeling: on the one hand, the hope that with this we can give some solution to a very big problem, but, on the other, a rather bitter feeling that the institutions have not done their job: to age for the citizens, for their welfare state, for a basic right like housing. Mr Pau Morales, as the rapporteur put it, has quite explained the reasons for this bill's proposal, the reason for its handling. I'd like to make some points and reflections. Here in Catalonia we were pioneers with the law of the right to the habitation of the year 2007, an advanced law that was legislated many places. From then on, a lot of legislation has been enacted; laws and decrees have been enacted, some of which are driven by popular initiatives, in order to cope with housing emergencies. Yes, very much has been legislated, but, despite everything, it is clear that no results have been achieved. And they don't get it because there hasn't been a clear bet on the assumptions. There were no minimally decent assumptions to implement the standards. The necessary resources have not been prioritized. How do we want to make housing policies serious, with the assumptions that are destined for it? Structural policies with medium- and long-term measures that guarantee walking to a sufficient public park and a suitable housing park. And these policies must be accompanied by assumptions. This issue has been a repeated cry from all the respondents in the polls, absolutely from all: the social entities, the affected, the experts and representatives of administration and the promotion and property management sector. I would also like to refer to the discomfort of the representatives of the economic sector for not having been able to appear for many years and give their opinion, since it has been legislated by law and this has not allowed their participation and – let me also say – neither transparency. This is not a minor issue, as the private sector must be part of the solution. The right to housing requires concertation and consensus. It is essential to activate the national pact for habitating without delay. Let us note, because the opportunities presented to us by the Next Generation require agreements between the public and private sectors, and it is vitally important and we must be there in time. We have years of legislation I would say that a flood of regulations that modify other regulations, with a great difficulty to hear where you are at every moment. It has been legislated with decrees to add the emergence, as on 17/2019, which today brings us back here. And he brings us here for a question of procedure: that we remain serious in processing and do not cheat on the lonely. I believe, at this point, directly in the parliamentary groups that support the Government: we must have rigour, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament; they have all the tools at their disposal, and in these questions I cannot look for guilty ones outside. Okay. Since our parliamentary group, we have worked closely on the text of the bill's proposal and have submitted two papers to the initial text. We have not been recommended on these points, but let us hope that we have thought about it. And I think... even though I didn't push it forward, I'm sure they've served at posencial meetings to debate and help profile and define the final text. From these new items, we have not maintained one until today's plenary, which is what I will defend now. This proposal proposes an additional provision to the proposal of the Law: "The Government will approve, in a maximum of six months from the approval of this proposal of the Law, an integral plan of approach to housing occupations. The occupation of habitats is a diverse phenomenon, and, from our point of view, it is essential to address this issue across the board. And it is to work for vulnerable families, to end poor coexistence in many communities of landowners and barrels of our cities and towns. We need to fight seriously against the mafias behind certain occupations, which are taking advantage of many vulnerable families. To fight resolutely to eradicate the criminal activities that are fan of occupied habitats. You can act in those situations where you're threatening and extorting your veins and veins. To address the situation in which families live in housing and premises without minimum living conditions, with sub-administrations connected under special conditions, putting their lives and the community in danger. There is also clear information to the citizen as to how they should act before certain situations. Look, the joints can't manage these complex situations on their own. And that is why coordination between administrations with the leadership of the Generality is necessary. I, from our parliamentary group, think that a good tool is to design an integral plan that addresses all and each of the derivatives of occupations. This item has not been recommended. And I ask – ask all the Members of this House today – what is the reason for not considering that it can be a useful tool? Can any of you beat me up that our cities and towns don't have a big problem? Are you listening to the mayors and mayors? Are you listening to the streets of Catalonia and the Vein Associations? Faced with a problem, and very big, our obligation is to look at it face to face, take it and look for it. Or do we think of doing like the ostriches, laying the head under the earth so we don't see it? Think about letting certain right-wing and ultra-right-wing groups continue with a populist speech of por, a speech that criminalizes vulnerable families, because they are not able to stand up to this situation? And these speeches are fought with responsibility, with facts; they are not fought only with words. We are the representatives chosen for the city to make decisions. It's our obligation. And some still have more, because they are part of the Government of Catalonia. So I'm asking you to reconsider including this item in the bill we're going to approve today. Have the courage that this moment requires. I also say to you that, if it is not approved, today will not be the last day we will talk about this issue in this plenary. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance we will work to present this proposal. I would also like to point out the position of our group, which respects the law's proposal: our vote will be in favour. The final text that is presented today is different from the original, and we think it is, in part, thanks to the debate that we have provided. As much as our reviews aren't there – I think it could have been more favorable – we think it counts on the hope of these. And, look, our vote will be in favour because the proposed measures are adhering to the hour of avoiding a flood of denunciations from vulnerable families that can occur when the moratorium decreed for the state of alarm expires, now extended until the end of September. Also because it is necessary to give answer to all those families that, having a contract to lodge with great tenors, obliged for the Law 24/2015, now it is not renewed. The vast majority of families have not improved their economic situation and continue to be unable to access the private market. It will also make it possible to regularize the situation of many vulnerable families who are occupying bona fide dwellings without any title that validates it. The Administration has not been able to give it a solution, since it does not have a sufficient public park. We also think that the possibility of compensation to the tenant of a social logger by the Agency of the Housing of Catalonia is a part of the solution to the housing emergency. The Administration thus assumes, as close as it is, its responsibility. And, as a final reflection, Members and Members, insist that measures to deal with housing emergence do not resolve the structural problem of a lack of housing policy for many years of the Generality. There's a lot of work left to do, and you can't afford to waste any more time. In the end, I would like to thank all those who appear in the pictures. Undoubtedly, their contributions have been very valuable. And thanks also to the Members and Members of the parliamentary groups who have been part of the question. I think we've been able, despite our ideological differences, to work and debate with a lot of good and respect. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.224.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.225.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a new blow from the President of Parliament and the Bureau, from the majority of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, who between yesterday and today have perpetrated a new martingala that limits our rights as Members. It limits the right of parliamentary and political initiative of the groups in this Chamber; in this case, it fundamentally limits the conception, which should be extended, of what is the Joint Group, and therefore the minorities, that game so indispensable in a modern constitutional democracy between majorities and minorities. The President of Parliament and her majority in the Bureau have made an interpretation which has prevented our parliamentary group, together with the Joint Group, from exercising its right of political initiative by submitting a request for an opinion to the Council for statutory guarantees. If the institutions themselves, if the politicians themselves who govern our institutions do not take the institutions of democracy seriously, we are going badly, and it is going badly to our democracy. I believe it is essential to bear in mind that the Council for Statutory Guarantees, which is a non-judicial but consultative body, which must rule on the constitutionality of the laws emanating from this Parliament, has today been delegitimized by the President of this House and by the majority of the Bureau. In this regard, I would like to say that I regret having to ask my question, logically speaking, about the law that we are dealing with in this debate, but in terms that will necessarily have to be very cautious. We, as a Parliamentary Group of Citizens, can hardly pronounce on a law that we see has interesting elements and others not so much, but that we know positively that it has elements..., and the parliamentary majority of separatist groups and those that support the Government know positively that it has elements of very dubious constitutionality. What's going on? That these elements of dubious constitutionality would most likely have been pointed out by the Council for Statutory Guarantees, by the Council for Statutory Guarantees, as has happened on other occasions in recent years. And what the Bureau of Parliament wanted to do..., the majority, with the exception, of course, of the Socialist Party, which we appreciate... The Socialist Party has had an attitude, on the boards of successive spokespersons that we have had, of the most dignified and edifying, because, beyond having a concrete position on the substance of the issue, it has been diligent, it has been respectful with the institutions, when it has made a closed defense of the right of the Joint Group, in this case, constituted basically by the People's Party, to present political initiatives, such as, for example, that request for an opinion before the Council of State Guarantees. I think that is worthy of mention, worthy of praise, worthy of praise, and that is what the Socialist Party of Catalonia has done in this case. In this respect, what we want to say is that, in order for this debate to be a debate that is truly respectful of political pluralism, it should have been done after listening to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees. We have been prevented from going to the Council of State Guarantees through Parliament. And we, as a responsible parliamentary group, as a group that truly ensures the respect and constitutionality of the laws emanating from this Parliament, have come directly to the Council of State Guarantees, without expecting the Bureau to allow us to do so. Why does the Bureau not allow us to do so? Because he knows positively that this law has faces, has some faces or vices, so to speak, of unconstitutionality. And, in this regard, I have not been able to avoid recalling other moments in the history of Catalonia, such as, for example, the year 2006, when the statutory reform, the new Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, was being processed, and it was presented by some parliamentary groups – I think I recall that at least by the People's Party – an appeal, a request for an opinion to the Consultative Council, which was the previous Council of State Guarantees. On that occasion, the Consultative Council said that nineteen of the more than two hundred articles in the current Statute of Autonomy were liable to be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and thirty-nine of them admitted doubts about their constitutionality. Well, what did the tripartite government do at the time, with the Socialists, with the Republican Left and with Initiative per Catalunya? To reject, disregard the opinion of the Consultative Council, then the Council of State Guarantees. And that's what degrades the institutions, that's what degrades democracy. Maragall himself, bound by the pressure of Esquerra Republicana, publicly recognized that neglecting, disobeying what the Council of State Guarantees said – although his opinions are not morally important, are an institution that has an authority that should be served by this chamber–..., Maragall warned that not doing so would mean delegitimizing the institutions, and that if our institutions of self-government, such as the Council of State Guarantees, were delegitimized from the Catalan Parliament itself, we were doing him a very weak favor for democracy in Catalonia. Well, of those dusts, these muds. And make sure that the pressure of Republican Left at the time made the Socialist Party not attend to what the Council of State Guarantees said. Then came the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which said, mutatis mutandis, the same as the Council of State Guarantees. But, of course, when an organ that basically does what it does is to ensure that the rules emanating from this Parliament are in compliance with the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy is ignored, it ends up happening. What's going on? That some go to that, some play to that, some only care about confrontation with state institutions. And they also employ issues as sensitive as the housing emergency. And they don't give a damn about doing an absolutely incomprehensible populism exercise, precisely because what really interests them is the confrontation with the perverse Spanish state. Things can be done differently. I, from here, from our parliamentary group, want to look to the faces of associations that defend precisely causes as worthy as a decent housing, as the defense of those who suffer..., the most needy, who suffer from the housing emergency, as the fight against a way of operating in the matter of evictions, let us say, unhumanitarian. And from this point of view, I ask you to trust the institutions, to trust the right of Members of this House to do things the way they should do in democracy. A constitutional democracy is based precisely on judicial control. Although the Council for Statutory Guarantees is not a judicial body, constitutional democracy is based on the judicial control of acts emanating from legislative assemblies and acts of the Government; the opposite is tyranny. And precisely what we have seen today from this chamber is an exercise of tyranny by the separatist majority and by the president of the chamber, which has prevented both our group, Citizens, and the Joint Group from presenting an opinion to the Council for Statutory Guarantees. It's a real abuse, it's a real, flagrant violation of rights. An interpretation is made that is truly delusional. It is recognized that the Joint Group is, for all purposes, a parliamentary group – for all purposes – except in those where political opportunity and populism..., it is of interest not to consider the Joint Group as a parliamentary group, simply. And the worst of all is that in this tortuous interpretation of what the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia say, unfortunately, I at the Board of Spokesmen today have seen as the very secretary general of the Parliament and the lawyers of the Parliament either acquiesced in fear of reprisals or were subscribing to the thesis of the separatist parties and giving good for a genuinely delusional legal interpretation, a legal interpretation that hurts rights, which hurts the capacity of political initiative and parliamentary initiative that the groups of this House have. Be careful, because we are playing the very credibility of our democracy, we are playing the very health of our democracy. As much as the confrontation with the State is of interest, as much as the confrontation with the Constitutional Court is of interest, as much as the confrontation with Spain – which some people only think about – is of interest, careful to play with our democracy, because this is how democracies die. This is what the thesis in the book How Democracies Die, by Levitsky and Ziblatt, says precisely that when those who govern make a tortuous, interested, arbitrary, discretionary use of government institutions, they are beginning to undermine the legitimacy of democracy. And I, from this point of view, all I want to say is that you can do things right. A housing emergency law can be made that guarantees all the rights, all the safeguards that a state of law opposes the despotic and populist exercise of power. Unfortunately, in Catalonia we are getting used to that exercise of decision-making power, that exercise which says that whoever holds in that particular moment of history the government has the sovereignty to do what it really wants. And, I insist, that majorityist interpretation of democracy is an infamous memory for the vast majority of Spaniards – specifically Catalans – and Europeans. Let us stop playing with decision-making and genuine democratic politics, admitting that democracy, logically, must have its restrictions, must have its limits, must have jurisdictional control over political acts. Today, one of the arguments I have heard from the representative of the commons in this House was that if we allowed an appeal or a petition, a request for an opinion before the Council of State Guarantees such as was intended, it would be acceptable that only six Members of this House could demand an opinion on the constitutionality of a given law. Indeed, that is constitutional democracy: the limitation of the power of the majority in favour of the individual, in favour of minorities. Or has anyone forgotten that lesson in democracy, which is respect for minorities, respect for individual rights, which precisely must not be run over by parliamentary majorities? That's constitutional democracy. That's what Kelsen's victory over Carl Schmitt meant, as he told them just yesterday. I think that's something we should all have in mind in this chamber. And I certainly do not want to bore you with legal debates that are abstruse and certainly unknown to some, but I think it is important to remember that the institutions must be prestiged, and we are the first to have the obligation to be prestiged. With regard to today's specific issue, I must say that what the Law of the Council of State Guarantees says in relation to the active legitimation of parliamentary groups to submit a request for an opinion is precisely..., in the case of Article 16.1a, two parliamentary groups, one tenth of the Members and the Government..., if the reform of the Statute of Autonomy affects the rights recognized by Chapters I, II and III of Title I of the Statute, may also request the opinion of the Greuges Synod. He says two parliamentary groups are legitimized. Our group and the Joint Group are therefore entitled to request that opinion from the Council of State Guarantees. Anyway, I'm warning you two things, basically. One, which we already told you that we have submitted... we have finally registered that appeal, that request for an opinion before the Council of State Guarantees. We will see how the Council of State Guarantees is pronounced, but something will have to be said about the fact that in this chamber a debate is being held that may have unconstitutionality, a debate is being held about a law that we have not passed any filter on its alleged constitutionality or unconstitutionality. We are well aware, from the background, that the Constitutional Court has already declared unconstitutional some elements that appear almost strictly sensu in this new proposal. Knowing that, are you really going to look at citizens and tell them that what you are doing is not pure populism, is it not simply going to clash with the institutions of our democratic rule of law? Wow, I think they've got it complicated, in that respect. We will therefore finally see what the Council of State Guarantees says, to which its parliamentary majority has tried to prevent us from coming. We'll see what he says. On the other hand, what has happened today should not be overlooked from the point of view of democratic quality standards. What happened today is very serious. That by a parliamentary majority that decides that some parliamentary groups do not have the right to resort to an institution of our jurisdictional framework, of our institutional framework – ultimately, of our deliberative institutionality –..., is very serious. And that is why we, logically, as defenders of the democratic rule of law, as defenders of constitutional guarantees for all, not only for our group, but for all the political groups in this chamber, reserve the study, the analysis, of even the possibility that the president of this chamber and the majority of the Bureau are engaged in a crime of prevarication. When you make unfair decisions knowingly, because you're doing so knowingly, you know positively that you're excluding from the parliamentary initiative two political groups that have the right, as representatives of the citizens of Catalonia, to have that political action, that political activity, and you're doing it knowingly, it's possible, at the very least, the possibility that you are committing a crime of prevarication. I therefore want to make it logical that we reserve the possibility of going to court for the possibility that a crime of prevarication has been committed. I insist on what I said from the beginning of my speech, and I will finish by saying: we would like to be able to express ourselves on the substance of this law, but it is that the rights of the citizens of Catalonia have not been respected to carry out this debate, the rights of the parliamentary groups in this House have not been respected so that this debate is truly aimed at a practical purpose. This debate..., what is intended, from the political forces that drive it, is basically the clash with the democratic state, and that is why we cannot participate in this debate. You don't have to say we're not going to vote. We are not going to participate in a vote that is addicted to origin by a ballast that threatens our democracy, and that is why we are not going to vote. Of course, we are withdrawing the amendments we have tabled to this law. And simply regret, once again, last and last, the degradation of democracy in Catalonia by the hand of a despotic president and a majority who exercises his majority from tyrannical approaches. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.226.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.227.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that I will be much shorter than the previous Member, but we will certainly agree on the substance of the matter. It is not the speech that I would have liked to make this afternoon, and, in fact, I am sorry, especially for the people who are with us here today, who probably wanted to hear another debate, but, after the Spokesman's Meeting we had just a few minutes ago, I have to talk about what has happened and the abuse we have experienced, from the Joint Group, the Members who are part of the People's Party. Good. Contrary to the precedents – because we have asked them explicitly in the board, and yet the precedents we have been quoted do not resemble the situation we have experienced today – and by overstepping the rights of the democratic opposition, the nationalist parties and the far left have decided not to accept our request for an opinion on the law that we were here to discuss today. And the problem is that this movie we've already experienced. You have recovered the authoritarian modus operandi from the plenary sessions of 6 and 7 September 2017. You have once again perpetrated an attack on the representatives of the Catalans. Because the Members of the People's Party will be few, Mr Aragonès – who was telling us this morning – but it turns out that we, in this chamber, represent all Catalans, which is also what you should do from the government. Look, democracy is not the tyranny of the majority. It requires procedures and also requires guarantees. And, as much as you have a majority, this does not allow you to limit, trample and trample the rights of other Members. The presidency of this Parliament should do what it does is to protect, I insist, the rights of Members of Parliament, but what it has done has, however, been to violate them, I also insist, without giving any concrete explanation. I therefore think that the explanation given to us was rather regrettable. In fact, we have been given the reason, it has been acknowledged that the interpretation that we were making of both the Rules of this House and the Law of the Council of Statutory Guarantees, which precisely provides that two groups of this House can request this opinion from the Council of Statutory Guarantees, was as we said, but yet Parliament has decided to make another interpretation. What interpretation is that? That of violating our rights; I insist, that of trampling our rights. The question is why. What fear do they have that the Council of State Guarantees, which also issues opinions that are not even binding, that are only advisory...? What fear do they have of being able to value, from the Council of Statutory Guarantees, if those articles that we consider can be unconstitutional, that can clash with constitutional precepts...? Well, then, what is the problem with the Council of State Guarantees ruling? I think it's that you know perfectly well that there are articles that have the face of unconstitutionality. That's the problem. And, instead of following the procedure, instead of guaranteeing legal certainty – because what you have done has been to load it – you have therefore decided to make a totally arbitrary and partisan interpretation of this regulation, without even complying, I insist, with the law of the Council of State Guarantees, which is the one that takes the procedure in these cases. I already tell you that we, from the People's Party, are not going to submit to this tyranny, of course. We have reconsidered that decision. We have also gone directly to the Council for Statutory Guarantees. And, of course – of course – I tell you from here that we are going to denounce this limitation of rights that you have perpetrated today by filing an appeal with the Constitutional Court. Because, look, you've set a very dangerous precedent today. And, moreover, they have counted, I insist, with the help of other parties, that, perhaps, then, in other circumstances – the lords of the commons... – they can be seen in this same situation. Today we have been the members of the Joint Group, the Members of the People's Party. But tomorrow, when you may stop thanking Mr Aragonès and his colleagues, it may be you who are in this situation. Why? Because I insist that a totally arbitrary interpretation of the rule has been made. So you shouldn't be celebrating so much that you were able to win this vote. I insist that we are going to bring it to the Constitutional Court, because in democracy authoritarian cacicadas, like this one they have perpetrated today, have consequences. Thank you very much. Oh, excuse me. I would also like to announce, Madam President, that from our group we are going to withdraw the amendments that we had tabled. And, of course, we are also not going to participate in this vote, which, again, I repeat, is to violate the rights we have as Members, and therefore also the rights of the Catalans to whom we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.228.0	All right. Thank you very much. Let's move on, then, to donate the word to groups that would expose their position. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.229.0	Thank you, Madam President. Here we are again, with a new law of housing urgency which, in the matter of illegalities and invasion of competences, has nothing to envy the first one that you drafted and that fell down the Constitutional Court. A newly baked law, with ingredients specifically chosen by the PSC, Republican Left, Junts and Communists. The mixture is to shake, and the product does not disappoint. Confucius said that a seed grows without sound, but a tree falls with a huge noise. This is exactly what happened to the first housing law, and what seems to happen to the second. And it is that, after meetings, discussions and purposeless votes that have passed almost unnoticed, we return to the point of departure, and we wish a titanic collapse as soon as the law passes through the filter of the Constitution. The projection inside and outside Parliament is that you only know how to waste time. That's fantastically done by the government, the partners of the government and the government in the shade. This law clashs head-on with several articles of the Spanish Constitution: 149.1– sixth and eighth–, 38 and 139.1. It is that it directly attacks the principle of the autonomy of the will, generates intolerable inequalities at the legal level in all Spaniards and invades the exclusive competence of the State over procedural legislation and on the basis of contractual obligations. This problem, the problem of this new dish that you have cooked, is that it maintains the essence of which you have already been rejected. A special mention, however unfortunate and shameful, of the preamble, in which they make a specific criticism of a political party to justify the incompetence of this Parliament to legislate, ruling in a coup d'état. There is no doubt that we are facing a real problem, the significant difficulty with which different families find themselves in accessing housing. We are aware that there is a need for real families, and we see the serious personal and family consequences that accompany evictions. The problem is particularly pressing in Catalonia. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, Catalonia is the third community in Spain in the run-up to evictions due to unpaid rent, the sixth by the queue in the number of social housing and leaders in autonomous debt of all Spain. And it is that separatism, which governs the Generalitat, is the definition of ineptitude in the identification of fundamental problems of families, unable to make a diagnosis and absolutely useless in the management of public resources. In this lack of talent and capacity, as they are unable to solve with effective social policies, they decide to take responsibility for their harmful management, their sectarian policies and their waste to individuals. So, no shame at all. Look, the responsibility for building social housing in Catalonia is of the Generality, and should be one of the main occupations and priority of their resources, which we have plenty of. Less Tertullians on TV3 and more social housing, less senior CAC officials and guarantee a roof to all those Catalans in a state of vulnerability. [[Some applause.]] According to the Coordinator of Social Housing Foundations, the average cost of social housing is 114,000 euros. This implies that, with what we Catalans pay to hate television, we could build 2,500 exclusively public homes, and eight thousand with public-private collaboration. But you allow yourself the luxury of continuing to invest in separatist and ideological policies, while more than ninety thousand Catalans lack housing, one_of_each_three children is in social exclusion and twenty-five_per_cent of Catalans are in a state of vulnerability. Abort once and for all the housing emergency and guarantee roof to Catalans who are having a bad time. This should be your priority. And we will demand it until each Catalan, each of them, has a home. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.230.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.231.0	President, MPs, MPs, activists... The law we approve today is a stop more than a path to take at the end of the road: to get it to treat people as good as they use and not good as production or, what is worse, act as finance. We have to make this stop, as it was already done in 2015 and 2019, to look at stretching those who no longer know where to subject themselves with the figure of compulsory social logists, and only we have been able to offer solutions very short term that would prevent them from building horizons of the future. And including that it cost a lot, as well as the emergency situation worsened for the cove. In fact, it has been thanks to the housing movement, to its persistence, that we are here approving this law, for which many families at risk of exclusion can claim that, before filing a mortgage claim or by default of final contract – some precarious ones – if it is made a social logger, that is, a logger with yields. The fellow MEP, rapporteur Pau Morales, has explained very well the content of the law. As always, we have to say that the legislature is up late. Since the end of the economic crisis in 2007, organised civil society has had to resort to guardianship, to ensure the most basic rights for full life that do not recognize laws, judgments or administration. Thank you for all the work done and for which you will surely come. We can't hang on to approval of this law, because this isn't the end of the path. This Parliament cannot limit itself to legislating in order to deal with situations of vulnerability. This must be done to prevent people from falling into the category of risk of social exclusion. No one likes to see'simmers' in the charity bureaucracy. From tomorrow we have to stay to create a specific regulation that guarantees the right to the lower ground beyond the emergence. They don't keep you long enough. They call for structural and non-conjunctural laws, which have decent assumptions, which limit the number of references, which extend the duration of contracts–including making them indefinite–, which make it impossible to sell public protection to those who are not managed, which expel speculative companies that come from accumulation; which recover the immovables with public money to the bank, after being confiscated for the Sareb and now endorsed, 2020, to the State, after a bad management; which end with the logger of touristic habitats. Today in this country there is a broad consensus on these axes. We'll want to fall into the parany of placing the right to the housing confronted with the right to the property of the working people, but no one falls into this parany. The dilemma is not this. It's between the powerful and the honest people. The same European Parliament, which is not the CUP, 2021 asks the Member States to do the favor of recognising the right to housing as a right to use it. So let's get down to business. And, Mrs Candela, we're grabbing his glove. Indeed, we need to address the issue of security in order not to leave it in the hands of the extreme right, because we are the first interested ones who can live safely in our barrels. How can they cope with these lines of consensus? Will we succeed with the state law being dealt with in the Congress, the ill-named "habitat law"? So no. The band of centralizing competitions, it is a cosmetic operation – great title, many declarations of intent... They may have touched concrete laws of the soil, leases, lawsuits, removal of the penal code the occupation..., but they have not done so. Will we get some from this Parliament? Well, it's up to the brand to use it. If we use the autonomist mark as a trampoline, we can. If we plant great reptes, we can. And today we have seen an example of what the party is about: political parties that are running for election with programs..., with large applications of proposals with habitats..., and they come here today and what they do is to lobby the property and, above all, to take advantage of excuses from the decisions of statutory guarantee boards. [[Some applause.]] Will we get on with the combined work between the street and the assembly? Yeah, that's the only way. The road is the engine of any verdant transformation. Because if there's anything we're after, nothing will come from us. And let us all follow, demanding all those points where there is all this social consensus to which I have referred, calling for a review of the privileges of the strongest. Because when it's said that the economic sector hasn't been listened to enough... well, the property camres hold public right corporate status. I don't know if the loggers' unions or those of us defending the loggers have this category so strong, before the Administration. Interlacing the fight of habitat with the fight for national emancipation. The 34th, with the law of contracts of conreu, favorable to the interests of pages rabassari and challenged for the agricultural employer, we intertwined these struggles. We've got to get back. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.232.0	On behalf of En Comú Puem, has the word, now, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.233.0	Thank you, President. A short incise. The fact that Mr. Martín Blanco has left, because after spending fifteen minutes not talking about the law... It is interesting that in these fifteen minutes he has forgotten to comment that one of the reasons for which he has not admitted to submit the request for the advice of the Board of State Guarantees is because they have done it badly, because they have done it on the registered law and not on the opinion approved by the commission. And it's too bad that in 15 minutes you haven't had time to explain this little detail. Now, let's focus on the content of the law, because, effectively, this is a very important moment, which has arrived late – we arrive late. It is a law that we registered in June, that we wanted to process it urgently and that has trigated more time than many of the groups that we registered it. But if this served because we actually arrive in this Parliament with a majority more than enough to legitimize this law and this initiative, then welcome is the way we have done it. Because we've made a journey in which, in fact, we've been able to listen to everyone, many people, all the requests for appearances that different groups have submitted. We did it on intensive days, but he listened and debated and asked everyone, experts and social organizations. And there's one important thing to say, too, because we've heard it once, "The experts say... Clearly, the question is who the experts are. For us, the experts are all and each of the people and organizations who intervened during the period; not those who come from the academic world and are sure that not only those who come from the House of Ownership or those who come from the associations of real estate owners. For us so expert is Jessica, who is one of the people affected by the fact that the Constitutional Court dropped this decree, as the Lord who came to speak..., to represent the interests of the House of Ownership. Therefore, it is a law that has collected all these interventions. And there have been the majority parliaments, but above all – above all – the ability to mobilize, negotiate and influence the social organisations, which have made it possible for us to arrive today at a law that will generate a broad support in this chamber. Therefore, when this session ends, when the vote ends and when we see the full panel of green points, which will be much more overwhelming than the votes against or not presented, if there is anyone who deserves a applause, it is the people of the right-wing organizations who accompany us here and also those who are outside following this debate. Because it is with these debates when Parliament is putting here, at the centre, the needs and priorities of the people and the ability of this Parliament to give an answer to what is happening. And we've already talked about the contents of the law. The rapporteur, Pau Morales, whom I take advantage to thank for the work he has done, to be able to put all of us in agreement, to put a rhythm of work that has been able to pull forward this law, as we say, among the difficulties, in a relatively short and intense time, so he has already named some of the measures, but I want to highlight one in concrete, which may pass more unnoticed, and which is the creation of the register of great masters. Why, besides, we haven't been able to see how the critical diary, have we? , the Critical Information Facility, thanks to the access to the information, has managed to publish information about which ones are..., more than « which ones are how many great owners and how many properties they have. When he wanted to know who these great masters are, he couldn't, because the data wasn't made easier. And it's a fun fact because people can use the backsliding of this law, to know if the piss they'll be denuded of is a great tenor. So... And not only that, but also that the House of Ownership has allowed itself to denounce Critic to attempt to violate the right to private property and the right to data confidentiality. With this law, being registered, when it is a company that has more than two properties or when it is a legal person with more than fifteen, it will be an obligation, and completing what you say will be an obligation. But we also know, as we saw with the law of yield containment, that they would try not to do it, that they would do everything possible not to do it. And many times with the cognition of judgments, which we see as often as they do not interpret laws in favor of vulnerable families. They will try not to do so, and this is where the Government has the responsibility: it has the responsibility to demand that this law is complete; it has the responsibility to accompany the families in the process; it has the responsibility to place itself next to the families to demand the great affections that they complete it; it has the responsibility to set aside an anti-denomination unit at the Catalan level that accompanies the families, that is, that I do not leave it in the hands of the social organizations to demand this right. It's a law of the Parliament of Catalonia, and it's the government that has to implement it. And that means resources. It means resources..., not only to invest in public housing construction and expansion of the public park of lloger, which we already give many times, but resources to make effective the measures that they intend to end the housing emergency and avoid thousands of denunciations. Therefore, the solution is very easy. The day after this law comes into force, that the government is placed at the side of vulnerable families who will be denouncing or trying to denouncing them. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.234.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.235.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, Members... First of all, today we are celebrating that, if we have enough in the vote, we are going to go back to a law in this Parliament that should never have been invalidated by this Constitutional Court, because at that time it left more than 3,500 families without a home that they had been assigned since the Catalonia Habitat Agency. We think that it's hard to repair it so much later, but that's what we're going to try with this law. Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, in their government agreement, show how priority the dam of this law, because as soon as it had been pulled forward... commented the deputy of the commons that we have given a few months, but we believe that..., it was the first law of this year, and therefore I think we also have to congratulate each other. And they're going to ask why maybe we've cheated a little more or we've had to look for that consensus; if we're four groups proposing, like there hasn't been that consensus, right? , from the inician. And we think it's because, if we're pursuing the same goal – that it was a public, social, shared goal, the need for housing and the need for public housing in Catalonia – we may have disagreed on how to get to this solution. From Juntas per Catalunya we have very clear that forcing private ownership to make public policies, so it is not the solution, and it must be an always exceptional situation. And, well, if it's true that in the last few years the case law, also the European one, has gone every time more to a path..., to a social duty of this property, it is also true that in any case it has dealt with the rights they have as owners, and has warned on various occasions that an excessively aggressive legislation against this property, therefore, would result in an illegality. That's why we've been here since Junts for Catalonia, and we've put in papers to shield this law, to shield this law, and to make sure that so many vulnerable families can't lose their usual habitat through this mandatory social logger. Why did we get here? So surely for an endemic lack – and for all groups of this bench the record that it is not only Catalonia, but it is Spain, which has a great lack in public housing policies – but above all for a lack of funding. And we know that it always bothers them to feel it, but that's it. Probably Catalonia, if you were close to it, would have much more suitable housing policies than their citizens require, and we would not find ourselves in the need for the constant regulation that the Generality has had to make through putting a price index, an imposition of empty housing... We also had to regulate on various occasions the right of aunty and retraction, through which three_thousand" lives could be acquired for public housing. And until today, what we're doing is this mandatory social logger law to ensure that these families are kept at their homes. But we've already told you, this isn't free, you always have to look at what the limit is. And these judgments of the European Court of Human Rights already declare a disproportionate interference of public authorities in the regulation of the use of benefits in different judgments against different countries of the European Community. For this reason, in order to ensure the viability of this law, we have thought that it is the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia that, through..., is already going to help or be like the tenant of these" lives, giving this final solution. And they're the papers we've submitted, and we appreciate the fact that all the other groups have come to agree. This proposal does not affect the banks or the funds to return. We consider that the banks have been seriously compensated for the Spanish State, as said yesterday by company Munell, with more than 100,000_million euros destined to rescue these banks, from which the Spanish State has not achieved anything. Because we remind them that Ireland did, by changing these aids, get the ‘lives to be used for public purposes. Spain, res. I'm done. From Juntas per Catalunya we believe that with our reviews there is also a more real knowledge of what our country is, of what it is Catalonia: a country where the small owner has more than eighty-five percent of "livings, with very different realities. Because an idea is coming up, the days of the ponies, the experts who came to talk to us explained that Barcelona, for example, is the first great owner of the city; therefore, we are talking about a first great public owner. And also, by listening to them, so... we'd love it if we'd all run away from a little bit of this policy we've been into today, from sluggers that I think are not good for society, as it is to think that an owner is always a predator. And we think the owner is part of the solution – we think we listened to him, too, okay. We think we also have to count on the owner to get to this solution. We believe that Catalonia is a country that its forest has ended up materializing in the form of inversion sometimes in stone, and that it has been the fruit of taking a lot of time – a lot of time – every day and a lot of work. I therefore like the difference made by the Member of Parliament, Mr Morales, about the great speculator and not the speculator. And today I just want to say, finally, that we must congratulate each other, that I think this is a victory of all, of society, of the will of understanding and of dialogue to make this country better. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.236.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.237.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, president, deputies and deputies... we arrive at the end of this debate, and I think I have done well, before, to explain the procedure that has been followed to prevent anyone from being cut off. In my opinion, which is not taken seriously the institutions is that practically did not come to all the sessions I mentioned before, which did not enter the debate on the contents of the question. Actually, they don't care about the procedure. They've been looking until the last excuse to question him, and we don't think they've just found him. What bothers them with the law is the content, but they don't dare defend it with a clear position. Well, yes, there are some who dare, who are the extreme right, and so goes to the Spanish right, who are eating. I believe that, if there is any scientific evidence, it is that the housing situation is currently unsustainable. The emancipation rate, if it has returned slightly, is historically on the ground. And the forecasts of denunciations, if the state decree of moratorium has fallen, are terrifying – they are so much so that even with the current decree we have more in force every day. It is urgent to act, and this Parliament acts. So does the government, to whom we can say nothing but encourage him to make an effective and zealous statement of this law, of which we will follow from here. Today we want to celebrate the most important thing, which is that, in the end, all these jobs will also serve because the agreement is as broad as possible, to include up to five parliamentary groups in this agreement. And that's the most important thing. Because this decree, which was partially suspended by the C.T. for a matter of form and not content..., to those who, as far as the Constitution is concerned, believe that it is also a good time to explain them - there is one thing that the Consteller Esther Capella always says: the one that does not appear to the Constitution is the right to speculate. And that's what we need to correct, for the benefit of a right that does appear and that is Catalan competence: the right to housing. A right that Republicans understand as a right subject of people, and we can't consider ourselves the welfare without putting at the center of this phone book. They're shutting down solid and competent legislative measures that are on the rise, like this. Thousands of people in our country find themselves in a difficult situation to pay for their home; people who, if we do not attend to them urgently, can see the habitation they live in. And here I want to be very clear: we'll defend them. We can only ask the Spanish State for one thing: that they let us do what they don't do, that they withdraw the unconstitutionality appeal against 11/2020, and that they legislate, yes, in those aspects in which they have competence, such as the process, like the mortgage, like the prosecutor, but that they let us do everything else. We will not resign, in Catalonia, to be managers of plans of « living designed to dispatches of Madrid, or to see as a timid law of the present government opens the door to future detonations of aggressive majorities against Catalan sovereignty, but also against the social rights and the right to housing that are already drawing Catalonia there. That's why the law we're debating is about going to the scene of the problem, which is social inequality, and establishing obligations for those great owners, for those few who have the most and who have worked for years in favor of correcting the emergence situation of those others – many – who are going through it more poorly. Because the problem of denunciations to our streets is not only – and we also need to act – what happens on day D; it is all that has failed before. And it's here, too, where we need to focus, if we want to reduce inequalities. Therefore, I call on you to have a debate on the contents, a debate which clearly explains that this law has never been made by small owners, but rather by large owners. Before Congresswoman Segovia explained it. We are talking about these three thousand companies that accumulate 120,000 floors, which concentrate the seventy percent of the lloger market in our country. They only have more than 25,000. And, to the Socialist Party, add it, beyond the grace I have given to the principle, which, obviously, we must not give up any space and speech to the extreme right, but we cannot fight it by imitating them in the forms or speech of some municipalities. Because who generates insecurity, who breaks the cohabitation, is the great tenor that has empty floors in the center of Manresa, in the center of Caldes de Montbui, in the center of Salt, and so many others. And this one's looking to give him answers. I'm done. The guarantee to the right to housing will not be immediate. It's a pulse between the citizenry, also from its institutions, and the powerful. We've taken one more step, one law to secure rights for everyone, the first bill of law for this legislature. The social, feminist, economic and democratic republic that we want passes by to guarantee the fundamental rights of the city council, and housing is not the paradigmatic example. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.238.0	Once the debate was over, and they called for a vote, remembering that we would vote in the first place for parliamentary group papers, and by the end we would vote on the text of the opinion. Let's start with the vote on the reserved items of the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, the issue number 38. The vote begins. This item was not approved, with 32 votes in favour, 88 votes against and 7 people who do not vote. Vote now for items 1, 7, 13, 15, 21 and 31. The vote begins. These reviews have not been approved, with 121 votes against and 7 people who do not vote. We then vote on the items 3, 5, 9, 14, 16, 22, 24, 29, 36 and 41. The vote begins. These reviews have not been approved, with 121 votes against and 7 people who do not vote. And finally, we vote on the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The text of the opinion of the Committee on Social Rights on housing has been approved, with 110 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Then, at the request of the government, we make a ten-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.239.0	Let us resume the session at the fifteenth point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the management of housing alternatives for runaway families, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning. [[Question to the Government on the management of housing alternatives for runaway families]] [[300-00117/13]] You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.240.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... well, a few things we know about denunciations in vulnerable families. From the generation to the disembarkation of 2021, 7,012 counts are those that have occurred in Catalonia, 4,740 of which have followed the city of Barcelona. We also know that the SIPHO, the Intervention Service in the Loss of Housing and Occupation, has 2,267 families, which involves 31,000 people, 10,000 of them infants– is to say, one_third of the denonate people are infants. We also know that, thanks to the housing movement, between the eighty-eight and the noranta_per_cent of the launch orders are not executed in the first call or suspended before the date. We also know that the protocol for due diligence in the judicial parties of Catalonia signed in 2013 is still in force, according to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia last October. We also know that the Royal Decree 11/2020, which prohibits the denunciation of vulnerable families without alternative housing is a trap: first, because it does not apply, and, second, because the conditionality of "no alternative housing converts the solution into the cause of denunciation execution. We also know that there has been a certain institutional response, such as that of the Barcelona Assembly, which pushed the annual SIPHO budget from €700,000 to €2.5 million, which represented an increase in the number of staff from seven to forty-three professionals. Or, for example, the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has expanded the Reallotgem program to search for empty habitats to reallocate families at the emergency table to also offer logger in the proper habitat in cases of imminent denunciation. Or, as we have experienced a few moments ago, the Parliament of Catalonia, which has approved this new law of expansion of urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency, which is great news, but continues to leave out a large percentage of the population at risk of losing the house in cases where property does not enter the assumptions of great affection that the new law establishes. What cannot be is that this table of emergence, at which everyone to access these housing alternatives has to be incorporated, has a waiting list of 650 families. It cannot be that the access requirements to this table of emergency leave out most situations of people at risk of losing their home, which are infra-habitats, occupations, people and families in an irregular administrative situation or in a state of distress – is to say, without demonstrable tickets to pay for the new logger offer. Nor can it be that the Reallotgem program, which in the paper is very correct and in theory should be effective, has only successfully closed twenty-four cases from 635 to the city of Barcelona, 3.8_per_cent. Nor can it be that the implementation of the Reallotgem programme is to be done through contract with a private company which, in the band of holding this contract, covered a commission to the local authorities, which supposes, in the case of Barcelona, approximately 1.2_million euros a year. Nor can it be that account is taken of the effects that the denunciations have on childhood, because according to the reports of the technical commission for the childhood of the same social services, and according to the reports of the Pere Tarrés Foundation, which show the negative impacts of pensions on childhood, these impacts are: amplification with unknown people, worse nutrition, increase of school children and, the hardest of all, sexual abuse of pensions. Nor can it be, she advises, that the situation of the workers before the housing alternative follows it: they are attached to a protocol of diligences – that of 2013 that we have commented – that forces the social worker to attend the judicial committee in accounts to continue assisting the family or, on change, to deliver a report of vulnerability because the committee the value and so the worker does not have to attend the denunciation. Nor can there be a unified criterion for the issue of the vulnerability report, because social workers do not know when this report can be given and when not, and that depends on the criteria that each one has. We must argue that this report can always be donated, but this is not communicated to all social service centres. A practical example: a family with children in an irregular administrative situation, either occupying or both. Up the day of the launch and, according to the current protocol, the social worker has to attend the denunciation to give support to the judicial committee, which is just the contrary that has been made so far. This creates tension between the family and the social worker, between the movement for housing, the family and the social worker, and generates a sense of unfavorableness on the part of the family that collects on the social worker's schematic. Because if the panel considers that the vulnerability report submitted justifies the situation, it may delay the launch, but if the panel considers that it is not so, it executes it. This..., a differential element is the consideration of the entourage that there is a housing alternative of any type. And not all types are valid. What we are living in the launches is that at the time it is mentioned that there is a housing alternative, even though it is of urgency, the launch is carried out. Therefore, the provisional solution is converted into the cause of the execution of the proper launch. And that, not to say, creates even more tension between the social worker and the family. But also with the housing movement, because the social worker can only manage an urgent thought in these cases, which is not a worthy alternative. So, what do you have to do? Contact an external company, such as, for example, BCD Travel, which charges the institution, as we have said, and which, moreover, charges the monthlyity of this habitation. Let us remember that a tourist fish has a cost of approximately three_ thousand euros a month, versus, against a thought with food for a family, which has a cost of approximately six_ thousand euros a month. Therefore, unsanitary accommodation such as pensions, without essential services such as cooking and bathing, are the only options that social workers have to offer to run families. The pressure, as we have said, remains above the social workers, who see between the committee, the family and the movement, with which, by no means, you are not allowed to interact, which makes it difficult to write your pocket, because we remember that the social work is vocational, and the social workers want to age and must age for the welfare of families and not the Administration. This inevitably requires a dialog with which to defend families, such as housing unions. We also remember the high job insecurity in which social workers are found, because they are a collection of workers in which interinatge and temporality are on the order of the day. Counsel, we have various proposals that compliment the requests of families, trade unions and workers, but we will talk about them after listening to who are the answers that the department intends to give before this extremely urgent situation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.241.0	To reply, the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.242.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors... thank you, Congresswoman. Members, Members, the Member of the CUP has asked us a question and I am sure that it can be understood that many, some of the questions she has raised to us, in fact, can be shared, we have commented on them several times. We all know that Catalonia's housing problems are hard; they're hard and they've been running out for a long time. It was said, in the proposal of law that we approved before, therefore, that they are not exclusively in Catalonia, but in any case, we do not take away our responsibilities, and the Government will not do so and, of course, the Department of Social Rights will not do so. Only in order to place a small number of skills in housing, which we have also proven, especially in the different resources available to us from the Constitutional Court, will the competent distribution of housing policies not benefit us either. I always like to remember – because since we are constantly aixafen, therefore, I like to remember – that the Spanish Constitution, in article 148.1.3 says that..., the autonomous communities will be able to assume competences in the following matters: the planning of the territory, urbanism and housing. The Statute of Autonomy in its article 47 also gives us skills in housing, but these skills are not only exclusive of the Government of Catalonia, but many times they are shared with the assemblies as well. Just to recall some examples of joint collaboration: the Consortium of the Habitatage of Barcelona, the Consortium of the Habitatage of the Metropolitan Area, the more than one hundred and thirty local offices of housing that manage expeditions of lloger, or the eleven_months of housing that they hold..., ai, the months of emergence that they hold some joints. The 2007 law, in fact, recalls that the local housing plans are the ones to approve the assemblies and determine the municipal proposals and commitments in housing policy and are the March proposal to implement housing policies of the General Administration. Therefore, these local plans need to establish programs, strategies and different issues such as segmenting the population into the difficulties of access or precariousness, an analysis of the situation of people without a home, or the diagnosis of the population that has been closed for reasons of their entrances. These local plans must evaluate the resources and municipal instruments in order to be able to do precisely these housing policies. And as we also remembered and we were remembering, so the State also has competitions. And they remind us, for example, also in these laws that are being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, that we believe that they are clearly unconstitutional. But in the case of the denunciation, the suspension of the default..., ai, the moratorium, therefore, of..., the suspension of the denunciation of this moratorium, which will now arrive until September 30th, and which coincides with you that, despite the fact that there has been this moratorium, there have continued to be denunciation. Therefore, it is clear that we need to improve collaboration between different administrations, and the department is involved and conjured to be able to get to this collaboration. You spoke in your intervention that there were 7,012 charges. I believe that what they are is 7,012 designated, unexecuted denunciations. And if they are not executed it is also thanks to the policies that we from the Generality are due in time to be able to prevent these people, especially those who are part of the months of emergence and, therefore, are at risk of vulnerability..., so to be able to avoid precisely these denunciations. It is obvious that the circuits are complex, and here is where the jobs we need to improve between the department and between the different social services – you make reference to them. The same management of the consignors, the consignors of the social services that must go precisely to the agency, that when these consignors do not have all the information covered are to return, it is very difficult to this management, that makes at the end of three_months, according to how, sometimes it does not arrive until the limited time that they can reach us. I want to remind you that the problem is not the criteria that mark the agency, they are the criteria that are precisely the ones that mark from Madrid. It is the judge who decides whether or not to admit it and, therefore, decides what is happening with these occupied habitats as well. Therefore, we also have this interference – interference with the well-being of the word – of the judiciary that also interacts with these problems that we have with our charges. Remember that many of the denunciations, more than others, affect people..., women who suffer male violence, or families who have minors, or dependent people and people with disabilities – and you also remembered it and we complained about it. And the main problem is always the same: the lack of public housing devoted precisely to these issues; the lack of public housing which neither the Generalitat nor the joints have. And although we obviously can't congratulate ourselves on whose whole task it is from the department and from the generality, it is true that some cases of these, especially of denunciations, end well and end up not being denunciated. At the beginning of the year, for example, of the table of emergency of the agency of Catalonia 863 cases have been solved; 500 cases of the months, also, that are in the city of Barcelona, or 300 cases of the different local months; that also have months of emergency eleven joints: that of Barcelona, Badalona, Cornellà, the Hospitallet, Lleida, Martorell, Sabadell, Sant Adrià del Besòs, Sant Cugat, Terrassa and Vic. It must be borne in mind that the year 2011 was to start 2,331 shippers. They increased in relation to 2019, which we had 1,975, with a very worrying xifra, because of these 2,300 dispatchers 262 correspond to situations of male violence. There were 1,837 consignors, of whom 880 were in favour. The determination of the social logger – and you said so yourself – depends on the family tickets, depending on their admissions and their CIHR, and then it is calculated which is the price of the social logger they have to pay. But the most important thing is the location of the habitats. The problem we have, not only the Generalitat, but also the gatherings, is the location of the habitats. And what's even more important is getting habitats that vagrate well those families, families that need to keep schools close to them if they have children, health services... And, therefore, it is not easy either to get the housing for those people who are found, therefore, to be denuded of their accommodation. To solve these emergencies – and you were also commenting – the Generality posed..., because we can't create a single tool, because the casuistics are very diverse. Let's create different programs that serve in concrete casuistics. And you remembered, for example, the Reallotgem program. But not just this one, huh? The Generalitat, since the year 2015, with the purchase of habitat through tanteig and retraction, has managed to buy 3,425 habitats and has invested 185_million euros. The joints have also bought 1,049 habitats, invested 57_million euros, 12 of which are financed by the Catalan Institute of Finance and subsidized by the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia. And also the entities of the third sector, which have acquired 553 habitats with 35_million euros of inversion, also 26 with the bonuses of the Catalan Institute of Finance and the Agency of the Housing of Catalonia. We have also given up public park and 4,300 compromised habitats through the different financial entities, 3,820 which are already effectively found between and given to the Habitat Agency. And when you were talking about the Reallotgem program, you always talk about Reallotgem in Barcelona; I like to talk about Reallotgem throughout Catalonia. And the Reallotgem program, which I want to remind you that it's been a few months since it worked... at these times, it has already reached signed contracts with the agency... until 131 contracts and 148 are already in its final process. Therefore, they are small measures, that it is true that they do not just solve the whole problem, but that they are surgical measures, therefore, that can help us. But it's true, in order to fight this scourge that's the scourge of denunciation, we can't just do it with help when we're already in the end, but what we have to do is get these people out of the risk of social exclusion that they're living at these times. But in order to be able to do so and to avoid precisely these denunciations, the Generalitat de Catalunya, the year 2021, allocated 140_million euros– 140_million euros– to pay aid to the loguer. More than 75,000 units have been able to enjoy this money and not to leave their homes; 225,000 people, if we consider that the family units are three inhabitants. Help them, therefore, help to avoid these misdemeanours. Obviously, we are not satisfied, we know that one of our challenges is to get more public housing so that we can allocate it to social logue. And in the next part of the intervention, then, I'd finish the explanations. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.243.0	Thank you very much. Tea, in the turn of the line, the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.244.0	Thank you, President. Well, counsel, some of the proposals you have spoken about are obviously necessary, but obviously they require a series of economic resources, right? We are talking about the conditions of the workers, who are on the front line, and who are proposals and resources that do not need a great associated assumption and that can be immediate implementation, as can be started to repeal the 2013 directive, which regulates this attendance of the social worker at the judicial committee and to draft a new protocol with decent times for preventive work. It is contradictory to put the welfare of families at the centre and now to have an old protocol in place so that they can leave no home. Therefore, it is necessary to repeal it and create a new one that allows the resources to be managed prior to the denunciation. Prevention, as you know, is essential to accompany families in the lane they are passing. It also needs to reformulate the access requirements during the months of emergence. The current restrictions, as I said in the previous intervention, leave out of this appeal the majority of families affected by the misdemeanours. And the public administration has to be the guarantor of basic social rights for the population and not to point out this exclusion. So, we can't understand how, what in theory is a tool to fight the problem, to the practical end generating more precariousness and violence over the most vulnerable sectors of society. It is also necessary to unify the residential alternative management protocol, because it is unacceptable that the resources to which families can choose are different depending on the barrier they live in and on the knowledge acquired from the social worker who reaches them. The resource portfolio has to be common to the whole system, thus allowing the social worker, who is the connoisseur of the family needs, to manage the most appropriate manner. Obviously, it would be urgent to develop an affected childhood protocol for denunciations. We, counsel, can understand that you are opposed to an economic model that is different from ours – we have talked about this many times – and we can discuss in the political arena what we are debating, but when we have, as we have said before, a third of the population that are denouncing that they are infants, infants to whom the Administration, by putting them on pensions, is putting at risk their physical, psychological and emotional salvation, then we cannot and will never hear any kind of justification for maintaining pensions as a viable alternative when we are talking about extremely difficult and irreversible consequences for infants. Families can only keep floors as an alternative. And obviously avoid these pensions and co-opting places with no guarantees of health. Because one of the things we're finding ourselves with is that families – and that we agree that families that have enough entrances have a copaying rule to the piss that happens, obviously, because that included keeping a thread of dignity all over this street, okay? But in no case can we share that this is done with alternatives that do not have health conditions, that is done in pensions that do not have cooking and bathing, and that the social worker, in any case, cannot prove the conditions in which they are found before assigning them. It is necessary to unify the directive of the vulnerability report, as we have said before, because all social workers know that it is a report that can be given at any time and without conditions. And above all, counselor, it is important to allow a dialog space with social movements. We see him at Social Rights or we see him at Education and we've seen him at Work. Maybe in the end we'll take it as this government's feature to avoid talking to the unions. Because I have to legitimize as the person who works every day on the street, on its walls, to defend a basic right such as housing, converted into a luxury good, to whom he guarantees that he should guarantee the Administration, he will advise. Listening and recognizing to whom he gives his face for his ways and for a right as it is to have a house, which his advice cannot, now, guarantee. The dialog is an inescapable minimum, because it is the popular movement that is coming to where this government has not known or has not wanted to arrive. Therefore, she advises, not everything can be solved with money neither to contract with companies nor, as we have explained in detail, all the answers cost money. Families need to have the best possible attention, that social workers have the resources they need and that the dialogue with housing unions remains fluid. Because in front of a repressive state that sends the police to remove children and children from their homes without any scruples, a repressive state that does not care the least about the dignity of our lives, the least of the least we can do, counsel, is to add efforts with which it has the same objectives that supposedly have the government and the department, which is the defense of the life worthy of the Catalan people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.245.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, has the word "Consellera Cervera".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.246.0	Thank you, President. Well, I won't finish completing all the measures that are fan of the ', of the Habitatge, which, obviously, are not enough, but that there are many and that, I insist, what they claim – because it is the will of all – is to avoid as much as possible, so that people can be dispossessed of their habitats, especially their habitats. So, I know there'll be a young lady later, we'll talk about it and we'll discuss it. You have appointed social workers many times, and will allow me, therefore... as I imagine it cannot be in any other way, I can also share the pressure and tension that social workers are experiencing at these times, that they see millions of different reports being made, and more so, surely, in a way that is completely out of control and without any protocol, as you said, and, therefore, this too will find us. I mean, what we want is the dignity of the work of social workers, that social workers get out of their jobs so that they can just go with the citizens and citizens in their pocket, not just to fill papers, I mean, we don't want social workers to go with administrative seas, but they just have to help us find the best resources for these citizens. So, we'll wait until we see what the points of your young lady are, so we can talk about it. You were talking about childhood and our concern, too, especially – and the other day the committee was talking about – the poor child. As the department we are deeply concerned about the poor child. And as already mentioned in an appearance, unfortunately, the poor child we will not fight only with help that are timely help. It's not about poor children; it's about poor families, it's about poor society. And the best way to get these children out of the poor is to get them, for example, work and decent work. And that's what we'd have to thank ourselves for, too. From the Department of Social Rights we can give help to survive, but not to live in an absolutely dignified way, that dignified life gives you in the end the work that all people want. You were talking about dialing. We seem to know each other a little, but he knows perfectly well that the door of the Department of Social Rights is absolutely open, not just to union movements, but to all the workers in our department to try to find the best, these little better ones that must help us, precisely, to solve the lives of the citizens. The situation of people with difficulty is very big and very complex and we will not fix it with great laws either, but, surely, with little better ones that can help solve small problems, which in the end have great realities. So he'll find us, he'll find us with the door open. We will wait for what his proposals are; we will talk about them. And, of course, we are also at the side of families, but also at the side of social workers, who help these people, precisely because their day to day is less and less difficult. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.247.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the activities of the Department of Economics and History in relation to the assumptions of the Generality]] [[300-00120/13]] Let's move on to the seventh item of the agenda, the question to the Government about the activities of the Department of Economics and History in relation to the assumptions of the Generality, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented in order to advance. It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.248.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors and counselors. Counsellor d'Economia, miri, today my group wants to ask about different elements, different aspects of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia. The group that I represent, you know, counselor, who tries to work and strives to do the job rigorously and seriously. I think you've even recognized him on some occasion in some kind of communication. So, to do our taxing and constructive opposition work at the same time, we need information; necessary information, very valuable to be able to, so obviously, do the necessary analysis. And I think you can agree on that, too. In this sense, for us transparency and effectiveness are two pillars of good governance, of good management. And I must say to you sincerely and with great respect, counselor, that I believe that at these times they are not giving themselves, at least in their office, for different episodes that we have experienced. Miri, I'll set him a couple of examples. The first: we made an inquiry the month of July to you about the council...,i.e., about the Secretary of Diffusion. This inquiry gave place to a youth in which there were several points that were approved for most of this chamber, also for groups that support the government. There were two points that said that the Government was committed to presenting, within two months, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy the new framework agreement for management services and the insertion of institutional advertising in the communication media. We asked this because, as we said, that March agreement was over in October, it was to be renewed, and we wanted to be informed of this new March agreement and above all of a very important thing for us, that it was to have clear, transparent and precise criteria of how it would be, as all these campaigns, all these advertising inserts would be awarded. It's 89_million euros in three years; two years plus one extension. That's a lot of resources. I believe that these resources are well deserved, that there is transparency and that it can be explained to the opposition of this March agreement. Well, so it's been a few months since that young man approved in this House and the Secretary of Diffuse didn't come to explain to us this new agreement which was approved by October and which, moreover, later published his bid in December. A failure of this chamber. We think it's a bit of a loss to this room on the part of the department. I'm telling you, we're gonna try and figure it out. We've asked for the Diffusion Secretary's appearance to come to the committee. I hope and, finally, I trust that all the groups will support it, as we voted that you should come on your own initiative. He didn't do it. Well, we've asked for it. We would also like to know..., and he was talking about it in that inquiry and in the motion, that it would be good to convene the advisory committee in advance of approval of this new agreement, to, of course, consult the content of this and the criteria. That, I repeat, EUR 89 million is a lot of resources and we believe that the public media in Catalonia..., but from the rest, because other companies – Catalan, Spanish, and even international – are also incorporated here –... they can know what they are all about. I think it's a waste that they have this transparency and that they know what they're up to when they're in this bid, I repeat, for €89_million. You said, the day we approved the assumptions, counselor..., I want to remember a phrase, said: "Because we already like plurality and diversity, but we can't say that public opinion is anesthetized, secreted and asleep. We can't say that, because so much good is going on, there's this huge plurality of communication media saying it. So look, because you have plurality, you must have released in the media. And I think it's important that we do this well done job. The second example for which I tell you this lack or criticize this lack of transparency and a certain good management is for a topic linked to the assumptions of the Generality. Miri, in the last two years the Generalitat has rejected approximately 6,500_million euros of covid funds: 3,165, 2,161, in the two years respectively, 2020, 2021; 993 in direct aid to businesses and local authorities. In total, more than €6,500_million. That's a lot of resources. And we always ask for information about the fate of these resources. We asked for the year 2020; we had a not-so-satisfactory answer, but there was a certain detail. We asked for it by 2021 and I have to tell you that your department's response was not adequate. The Members who were at the committee last week know that, because they saw me angry and sad, because we are the first group in the chamber and I think we also deserve a certain respect, because, as I say, we try to do the job rigorously and seriously. Our obligation is to monitor and, therefore, when we ask for information is to be able, precisely, to see if the job has been done. And if it is, let's say so, because we recognize it. It's all right with us, I think you know that. We have voted in favour of a law that we also have our doubts, but the work on the question, therefore, has led us to vote in favour. We don't have a problem with that. Now, if you don't do things right, you have to say it. And why do we want to know the fate of these 2,160_million euros that came from the Government of Spain through covid fund transfers? So look, because yesterday he approved the monthly performance report for 2021. Therefore, the provisional closure of the year. And we saw that in the year 2021 there were 2,135 million euros left. The remaining financial result of the non-financing comes in a positive number of EUR 2,135_million. That's to say, if you look at the whole series from two years ago, the biggest result in favor of the financing result, remaining the non-financing, is this year, in the midst of a pandemic. But it turns out that if we look at the deficit you've made this year, we're between 500 and 600 million euros, depending on whether we count the generality or the entire public sector; that is, under 0.3. Do you know how much the State would allow it to be made disabled? A 0.6! If you could have spent a lot more on it, then the state was financing this deficit. And you know how many times we've had to listen to the socialists in this chamber, which you, the President of the Generality, and many advisors say, "Today you to the Government of Spain that you increase the deficit to u per cent so that we will spend more. So, miri, they won't make it to 0.3! Why didn't they spend more? Is it that they did not have enough resources to strengthen the public health system? Is it that they have not been able to devote more resources to mental salvation, that it turns out that we get a teenager every two months with problems of mental salvation? Couldn't they put more resources in here? It's that they couldn't put more resources in the university, that's underfunded? Couldn't we put in more resources to put up with the poor child or to fight against the twenty-i-nou_per_cent of Catalans living in social exclusion? Really? They've made it less difficult than last year. But not only that: it is the smallest deficit in the last series of two years, the smallest deficit in the pandemic! That, Counselor, you have to hear that you have to explain it to me. I'm telling you. I do, because there are many needs. And do you know what's going on, Counselor? That you, when you came here to intervene – that you don't get used to doing so by the counselors, after the approval of the premise – spoke a lot of equal opportunities. He talked about roles. He talked about things, oysters, which I can share. But then it's less difficult than it was last year. But it's the least of the last two years. And over them there are 2,135 million euros left to finance; that is to say, you have asked for more loan than you needed and have not spent it. I could go through two things, or I could think of two things. One, all the needy are covered, in Catalonia. They'd say no, huh? We could talk about industry, too, huh? Mr. Canadell. In short, of many things, not just the social ones I have commented on. They're not covered. So the second option is bad management. Because, if not, I am told how it may be that the year 2021 makes the least deficit, much below what the State expected, when you have been here constantly complaining that "oh, that's good, the State." It's supposed to be u percent. Well, then he'll explain it to us. But it's that, besides, I remember that the principles of generating you make that report for the foreign investors, and they say that the deficit would be the '1.1_per_cent, 2,560_million euros would be the deficit. "What a pain, the State! What a pain, the State! So look, the State, in these two years, more than 6,000_million euros, and you've made the smallest deficit in the last two years, a pandemic. Vagina to explain it to the master, vagina to explain it to the doctors, to the nurses, because I, frankly, can't hear it, counselor. And so, we, like, what we need to do for analysis, and I have to tell him that the data on the web..., that's true, and I have to say, and I want to congratulate him, since yesterday the former Director General of Presuppositions left, who actually gave a lot of hard work information; we appreciate it, but we don't have any data. These 2,162_million to what did they dedicate them to? Because if there's any money left over, then we'd like to know exactly what it is. Because I don't think that's an explanation. Your management in 35,000_million euros of presupposition. They have very many transferred skills, among them important ones such as education or sanitation. And, therefore, what they have to do is act. If they have resources, they have to spend them, and stop complaining and look at so many other administrations, that, among other things, they have been responsible and indebted because the communities don't have to do it. Before... really, counselor, I'm telling you with all the sincerity and, say, the sadness that this causes me, but I think that before I ask for more resources, more skills and always make this victimistic speech, you should manage well, you should rule well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.249.0	The word has now come from the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.250.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Romero, look, the first thing I'm going to tell you is that the one that won't make this government sure and that won't make this economic advisor sure is the one that the tripartite government presided over by Mr Montilla did. That's for sure we won't do it – that's for sure we won't do it – which was... No, no, I remember that. Look, President Montilla's job is to double the deficit and multiply the generality's debt by three. And then there came another government that went into the history of retailing. Remember? You still have this..., the retail sign. Do you know why? Because the finances of the Generalitat were so small after a terribly disastrous management. And that, you're right – you're right, Mrs. Romero – that's not going to be done by this Economy Advisor. So, you're also asking me about the data on the theme of the broadcast. Miri, once we got here, three months ago we introduced the memoirs of the Secretary of Diffusion, and what I can already announce now is that the month of April we present the one of the 21st, which had never been done, huh? – something that had never been done before. And there you can prove two things – two. One, which comes out of the very clear numbers of what I say every time and every communication group, which I ask you to pass on to me as well as what Moncloa and the Spanish Government are going to do, which is a mystery that nobody knows, because it is not published anywhere. There are only a lot of rumors, but no one knows what it is for, from public authorities and ministries, to Spanish media groups, some of them Catalans with their own in Barcelona, and no one knows what they donate. We'll know everything here, and with more transparency than ever. And then, that's published punctually, that's never published what's said, what's done there. There is a total obscurantism with the theme of communication media. And here, I say, we'll do it with pluralism, we're already doing it with pluralism. Year 21, as you know, the half of the year is from the new Secretary of Diffusion; the other half was responsible for another half. And what I can tell him is that we published the two memos, that they weren't published, and that now we're going to publish, as soon as we've finished auditing, the 21st. Respect the covid expenses. You ask me for the highest degree of achievement, and what I have to say to you is that I appreciate it, huh? As a matter of fact, I would like to thank you, Mr Romero – and the members of the PSC – for your willingness to audit the Generality's accounts. This is a basic function of opposition, and it is also a basic function of the alternate government, and therefore the control of the government seems to me to be a decisive instrument for any democratic state to ensure that public foundations are for the common good. And, therefore, I applaud the fact that they are inquisitive in this, and I offer to give them maximum transparency. The pandemic has had an impact in Catalonia of 4,221_million euros, this year 21. Of these 4,221_millions, 2,027_millions were spent directly covid. How are we going to finance this expense? The money came out practically in equal shares of resources of the Generality and of transfers from the State. The Generality was in debt thanks to the margin of deficit – which we try not to overcome, it is true; the great Western economies do so – and the departments have re-established their spending. And between one thing and the other, the extraordinary covid foundations, the resurgence of departments and the margin of deficit, with these three elements we were able to face an authentic war, as was the pandemic. The State, for its part, created the extraordinary covid fund – which I could claim, but which I will not do – of which to Catalonia there were 2,161_millions, the seventy_percent of which came to us in September, while the remaining thirty_per_cent did so in November. This means that during the year we had to start spending before the covid fund arrived; we and any other territories of the State. Therefore, I insist, 4,221_million covid impact. Covid impact means the share of inputs that you don't hold more than the share of expenses: 2,161 of extraordinary funds coming from the State. With good criteria, the State decided that these extraordinary foundations were not finalists. That's important. He decided that they were not finalists either for Catalonia or for other territories. The Government of Spain endorsed the principle of subsidiarity in an emergency situation such as the pandemic, and transferred the ultimate responsibility for assigning this fund to the territories. This means that the Generalitat was able to put all the resources, the generalitat's and the state's props, into the same work, and we assigned them to the extent that the needy appeared. It's like now you're putting up twenty euros, I'm putting up twenty euros on the same job, and you're saying to me, "What did you spend my twenty dollars on? It will be very difficult, Mrs Romero, to tell you. In the end there will be forty and we will spend them on what we consider to be spent. Naturally, the needs that were produced before the arrival of the extraordinary covid funds, therefore, were solved, and, as I said before, the month of September and the month of November came to these extraordinary funds. It is impossible to give the exact detail of how these 2,161 extraordinary covid funds have been allocated, because they have gone, as I say, to a bigger job. Now, this bigger job, which is the section called DD10, this fund we have from various departments, this one I can give you all the detail you want, because, as I said, it's the big job we put all the resources into. To begin with, I will tell you that almost eighty percent of the resources mobilized for the covid have gone, for this order, to the Department of Health, the Department of Enterprise and Work and the Department of Education. Eighty per cent. We see what happened to Hi. In total, last year, this department should be worth 2,300_million euros extraordinarily to deal with the pandemic. Of this amount, the 70_per_cent – more than 1,600 – paid direct attention to the disease, medication, and health treatments. A further 405 million were allocated to preventive measures to protect the health of the citizens. And the third most important game for what makes Salut there are 206_million that we will have to devote to the purchase of various health services. For what it does to Enterprise and Work, the extraordinary funds allocated to it are worth 923_million euros. More than half of this figure, concretely 526, has dedicated itself to paying help to self-employed workers in ERTO's situation. Another 322 have been dedicated to assisting small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed professionals and retail traders. And thirdly, in relation to the Department of Education, the biggest 500_million extraordinarial game ever, of these 500, concretely 217 were destined to keep the schools open and to develop the course face-to-face. I have to tell you, Mrs Romero, that the Government is particularly proud of the decision that in its moment some people denounced how distressed it was to preserve the presence of Catalan schools. I know your sensitivity to social issues and I hope you shared with me what this decision has done to help especially the most vulnerable children and families. I can't list the relationship of concrete actions right now, because it would be unmatched, but if I want more detail, I can tell you in the next reply. At all events, just tell him that all this, as you know, is also fully monitored by the General Intervention of the Generality, by the Union of Accounts, and that we publish the monthly performance report, which the Government of the State does not do. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.251.0	Thank you, Counselor. In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.252.0	Counselor, various things. I have to tell you... it's not that I want to give credit, is it? , that of my group, but in that motion that we approved in July there was also an obligation for the Government to publish the memos of the year 2018, 2019, 2020 of the Commissioner of Publicity. That was done, we were very happy, but the others weren't. And he still hasn't answered me if he comes to explain to us, the Secretary of Diffusion, to what we approved in this Parliament. Then, look, I'm sure the tripartite did a lot of bad things, like all governments; they make mistakes and they make mistakes. But, look, President Montilla left the Generality with a debt, in absolute names, of €32,000_million, and I think that during that period there were primary care centers, schools, career paths as ever, because we also found our country with a very poor situation. Do you know what the generality's debt is at this point? Well, I'm sure you know, that you're the councilman, obviously, but I'll tell the other Members, in case you don't know: we're about 80,000_million euros; 32,000/80 thousand. And if you ask the city what great projects we've made in the last two years in Catalonia, I don't know if people would be able to tell you three. So, man, there was a debt, yes, but it was an extraordinary reversal because there was a lot of need. More than you told me. I got a little bit into the detail – very little, very little detail – on the covid background of the State. Look, it's the other thing we want to know is, when you say these 900_million euros in health, or these– with MP Escarp looking at us– 62 that you said in investments..., but exactly in what? How long did you go to the concert? What about the public? What's the score? What about...? I mean, how much to hire more staff? That's to say, the detail, a little... I have to tell you that 2020 – then the economic advisor was the current president of Aragonès – they introduced it to us with a little more detail. It was hard for me to know, because, truly – look, I did, because you see it, didn't you? - That's what's going on, huh? That's all they explained to us the other day; a little – a little – because, of course, 900_millions around here, 1,200_millions over there... Home, it's a lot of money, huh? I can't imagine it all together. I mean, a little bit more detail – a little bit more detail – 900_millions that go to companies, 196 to social rights... And the Lord, then, Moreno will say to me: "But social rights to where? Because we have the residences as we have them, we don't have nine seats... Listen, I think a little bit of detail. You can't give it to me here today, obviously; but I would ask you to tell your team to come and compare us, and indeed, the data; that I believe that, moreover, our usual opposition to being responsible and measured, even though it is sometimes vehemently, to have this information. Look, there are things that haven't answered me, huh? You didn't get me back from the deficit. And you say, "We have to complete, we have to..., good management, I would just miss. I would understand in another context that you make us this speech of good management, good governance, of "listen to me, we complete the deficit... we are the first. Well, it's just that you didn't complete the deficit, because the state allowed it 0.6; that's to say, it allowed it to spend more and it didn't spend it. It's just, of course, it's not like we're following the class firsts on this, either. Now, 2012 was already President Mas; but now you. Home, I could've spent more. But it's more than 2,135 million euros in cash; they've asked for loans they haven't spent. Then, to a surprise that, with all the needs that Catalonia has, the deficit lower than the last two decades and the positive result between the financial result and not the financing of the last two years. That's what surprises us a lot and we'd like some explanation. And if you can't give it to us today, we'll be very satisfied with 'the Economic Commission, Counselor,' 'cause I'll explain it to you. Frankly, we believe that resources, which are plentiful in Catalonia, 35,000_millions, must be managed well. And I repeat: we have many skills, we manage them well, we set an example, and then we ask for more. But it's obvious that here, at these moments, they see the data from the report that was published, I repeat, I think it was extended overnight – and we've looked at it with all the detail we could – we see things that don't come to us, taking into account the needs. That's why I told him that I was aware of it, because, with the needs there are, it's hard to understand that we have, say, left behind more than 2,000 million euros and that we have the lowest deficit in the last two years. It doesn't have to be the champions in this, when, besides, the State and allows it to make it more deficient and, so to speak, finance you. By the way, financing you know that you ask the FLA, which, moreover, on Tuesday the Government approved, the FLA, which means the State, which is our great creditor. And I would also ask you... You say: "I don't want to talk about the covid background of 2022. Miri, I'll talk to him. Tell President Aragonès to go for a dive in La Palma. Vagina there and ask for covid 2022, as will the other presidents who are responsible, and, also, who enter to debate the autonomous financing system. Miri, about this, now, counselor, I will give you a book that we published with Rafael Campalans who talks about how we can improve the system of autonomous financing because Catalonia also receives more resources. Also, in this line, we can also help and collaborate with you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.253.0	There's the word now, the Economics Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.254.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Romero, here, solemnly in this Parliament, I make you a proposal. We have one thing: that the Secretary of Dissemination of the Generality will appear in this Parliament the day you say, and that the same day you do it the Secretary of Communication of Moncloa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, listen to me, no, no, I'm telling you why you've increased the Spanish government's advertising and advertising costs by 30-two percent and nobody knows what it's spent on. I, in change, here we do know. And you see here, with all your parliamentary authority, that it is a lot and that I envy you very much, to ask – to ask – that you come to... Listen to me, I would already want half the transparency, in these and other issues, like... Please. Listen to me, all the newspapers have published that there are now 115 million euros of institutional advertising assumptions from the Spanish Government, thirty-two percent more, and they don't give any explanation of which groups are going to do it. Listen to me, I... no, no, I'm telling you: the secretary of diffusion of the generality will do it either yes or yes, he's not worried; that's what I can count on, and more so, right away. There's no problem with that. What surprises me is that I don't have the same measuring rod, huh? Miri, the head of public administration makes a report as extensive and detailed as the one published by the Generalitat in retre comptes. I understand it's a dopey thing and, if you want, we'll try to run it and send it to it. I brought him a copy, and then you gave me the book, which we would also get to President Pedro Sánchez. Ah, all right, I see you've already got a copy. Perfectly. So here I can assure you it's all in detail. But this report executes the fem every month. The State publishes only a few execution blocks without any explanation. The Generality publishes the party presumption execution detail in a system that can view data online, which can be accessed by any citizen. And all this information can be downloaded and incorporated into a full calculation to do all the analysis that is required. The Generality, in the third place, systematically publishes indicators that allow follow-up of all publicly funded programs and know to what extent the allocated money has been used to achieve the expected objective. I have no awareness that the Spanish State retains these accounts. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, yeah? Weight? We're weighed because, of course, it's normal. [[remorse of the voice]] If he shows up... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, it's just... watch out, 'cause it feels like everything. [[You laugh and you see.]] Any country is confronted with the veins. [[Funnel veils]] With the countries we see, it's always like the countries we see. Listen to me, more than anything else, the Generality publishes the assumptions in homogeneous series, so that you can see, for each game, the initial assumption with which you were endowed and the degree of execution of each moment. And, finally, Mrs Romero, for all that seems a little, in the bill of measures which Parliament approved on 29 December at the initiative of the Government, we have included two more measures to increase the transparency of our accounts. In concrete terms, we are obliged to publish information on the destination of the funds derived from the appropriate taxes that are integrated into specific funds. As you know, most of the tributes are close to finalists. Theme CO2, therefore, goes for the topic of climate change. And this will be published, where everything goes. And we commit ourselves to producing three new presupposed reports to further expand information on public resources. Therefore, if you do not accuse yourself of one thing, Mrs Romero, it is not to be transparent with public finances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.255.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the guarantee of the fundamental rights in mobilizations]] [[300-00124/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the guarantee of the fundamental rights in the mobilizations, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.256.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... we don't see the light of the day in this room, and I'll be stuck saying good night, 'cause I guess these hours you must've had a little snooping. And I thank all the braves and braves who stand at the last point of the order of the day, I thank them with all the color. [[Greetings.]] Surely, if I've been heard at any time in this faristol talking about security policies, I always like to say a phrase that I think it's important to keep it very in mind: in a democratic society there are no rights or collective or individual freedoms without security. But I always add another aspect: in a democratic society there is no security without individual rights and freedoms. And what we're talking about right now is a sham with the Lord Counselor about which way we have to guarantee the most basic rights, the human rights. On many occasions we have had the feeling in this country – in the Spanish State – that we are passing back and forth. And I believe that one of the key aspects in this defence of basic human rights, basic phonemental rights, such as the right to gather, the right to demonstration, the right to information..., rights that I must also say, we must defend when they are manifested, when they are mobilized, people to whom we can feel our own ideologically, but also when they are manifested, or people from whom we can feel our own ideologically. And one of the key aspects, which we cannot hear in reality in the Spanish State and Catalonia, was the law of national security, the name of the law bites around this violation of rights. And I think you need to say it out loud. And then we'll go through institutions that have placed the alarm around this right-wing violation. But we must be able to say: for too long, we have doubts that many citizens and citizens can exercise these rights without all the sanctions that the name implies. In this sense, I believe that if there was to be a general agreement, it is that the defence of the fundamental rights is above all. Finally, the Spanish Constitution states in Article 1.1: "Spain is a social and democratic state of law that advocates, like higher values of legal order, freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism. The law does not respond to this article, as many other things that have happened do not respond to this article. But I think it's important to situate it; I think it's important to frame it. Like Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 21 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. They make it very clear – very clear – that protests or demonstrations on the street or gatherings are an instrument with which we exercise a fundamental right, on the part of all people, in a public and peaceful manner. Key element – key element. A fundamental right that not only recedes the Constitution, but it is receding in all these quarters. And before this situation, what do we find? We find ourselves an administrative rule that violates these rights; we find ourselves an administrative rule that has long been promised to repeal and that is not currently repealed. And we find the announcement, made last week for the honourable counselor, of a job that I think is brave, that is to make changes in the legal criteria in the processing of dispatches of persons who participate in social and political mobilizations and are identified by the police. That is to say, changes in the power emanating from the Department of Interior to sanction administratively, as provided for by the Organic Law of Protection of Citizen Security, better known as the law bites. And explain the objectives. Its basic objective is to ensure that the exercise of the fundamental rights of persons participating in the mobilisations prevails. Also, for what we have learned, in the investigation process they will be valued, in the first place, whether or not the conducts of the protesters are embedded in the fundamental rights – a key exercise – as are the cases of the right of assembly, of manifestation, the right to freedom of expression and the right to information. Then I'll give you a little bit of an insight into the right to information and how the law affects the right to information and how just this week will present the Media report. how the right to information is affected by the biting law. And that's what they explain to us from an element that I'm not a lawyer and I think it's the first one. And I'm not a lawyer. But we have judgments that generate jurisprudence, not only of the Constitutional Court, but also of the European Court of Human Rights, which are showing us that they are violating rights from the sanctions of the law. And as any administration does, generating the criteria at the time of interpretation of the normative preponderance is a mandatory exercise. And I'm pretty sure someone's sneaking around because they're running around in phone-rights like the ones I've named, or the right of information. We should have thought, if we are concerned and if we consider that we are bringing the authority to the agents of the Mosso d'Esquadra in order to generate criteria in defense of the fundamental rights and to avoid a very clear situation, that then, if they end up at the European Court of Human Rights, they will win. And with all due respect. And it's absolutely necessary that he win. Because we're generating a very bad favor in a democratic state when we break the phone book. And this exercise, I think, counselor, which is interesting that he can explain calmly in this Ple; that he can explain calmly how they want to develop this exercise that what he does is prioritise the fundamental rights, how they want to work also around a very important demand of the entire journalist class of this country. And it's not because of the demand of the journalist class, which is lawful and legitimate, but because of the right to information. There is no democracy without being able to exercise the right to information. And I'm also saying this – and I'm sure the counselor has to agree – that's defending the agents of the Squad Moisson before a reality that wouldn't be close to them and what the law requires – forces them in a wrong way. And it is in this sense that if you have legal and legal margins to be able to develop it, it is up to you to develop this defense of fundamental human rights and fundamental human rights. Because I also want to remember that on the 8th of February of this same year, the Council of Europe sent a letter to the Spanish State asking for it and placing the doubts generated by the law bite. In the same way that I would like to remind you that organizations in the area of United Nations carry time denouncing the Spanish State respect the law bite. And I also want to say one thing: the department, the Government of the Generality, is doing the work that is close to it, but this does not make us forget that there is another work that is close to Congress that is trigando masse and that, for the sound of these last days, I think it is not going for the right way – I think it is not going for the right way. And I'm sure that all the Members of the House and the Members of the House are clear that the fundamental rights are essential and that these changes are to be made with courage; they are to be made with courage, as they are done from the department. And explain them, and explain the benefits. Because, gentlemen, many stratospherics to exercise a fundamental right, many for actions that you have not done, because you have organized a demonstration and made a third, without any kind of proof, are not reasonable. And this exercise [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – it's necessary. And I want to end up with a recon. Surely some would consider that it would only be missing; but I want to do it honestly. There are many challenges in the field of security policy, but the main challenge is to be able to explain that in security, as in education, as in social policies, as in labour policies, as in sanitation, there is also an ideological look. And those who think that there is no ideological look what they're doing are leaving the playground and letting the right and the extreme right mark the playground of security policies. And this, from this parliamentary group, but especially from the government, must not be allowed. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.257.0	The word has now come from the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.258.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, thank you for this inquiry and for the opportunity to explain a little more and more serenely – with more time, go – these criteria that we have provided. Go ahead, first, that we are talking about criteria for applying a law that should be repealed. I want to start by saying that it's..., the law bites, no, it's Law 4/2015, protecting the security of the citizen, to which everyone tells "the law bites, basically because the parties that today govern Spain put that name when it was approved. Because it was, for those parties – and for us too and for the party that conforms to the Government of the Generality – a law that shamed democracy. It's textually said that. That it was more close to the rule of Orbán's Hungary than it was to a democracy. And what it was – and today is an interesting day, because we've been visited by a few activists – is a more active and critical city-timer. Thus, for example, the spokesman of the socialist group was positioned in this sense. And with the requirement and the compromise to repeal it. It is essential that this law be repealed, because it is an attempt, indeed, to the fundamental rights. Its derogation is essential. It is a democratic requirement and, moreover, it is a compromise that is not complete. And I am surprised, moreover – this morning I said – that we have just passed from defending the repeal of this law to asking for its compliment with the utmost rigour, with the greatest demand, with the most irony, precisely against activists. And that's losing the north, from my point of view. And we're here because things happen. They know I like it enough to repeat it. We're here because things happen, to make reforms, to make changes. And not just to posture, but because things happen, because there are real changes. And in security policy it was imperative that it is faith, and it is done courageously and compromisedly. In this sense, it seems that there are options for changing the law in due time. Actually, it looks like there's an open pose. Let's let what I feel around here require compliment of the law bite and the opening of the pose in very little square. And don't it be that in common we can... have to swallow another time a flu like in so many things, right? As with the rubber drivers, as with the maintenance of the biting law, as with the backs getting warm and so many and so many things. Look, in the reform and in the change and in the modification and in the repeal of the law they'll keep us on the side, because it's essential. And while we're at it, we need things to happen. And one of the things that has to happen is to interpret the laws from the perspective of the joint legal order, which also includes case law. And that's why, from the department, we have asked, from the department's legal services and from the central government's legal services, criteria for the application of the law from the perspective of the fundamental rights. Because, beyond the laws, that a person sits before a piss, a banking entity or a public administration, peacefully, and that that supposes six hundred euros of fine, is not normal. That a journalist, a photojournalist, takes a picture of the street of a group's demanding activity or a conflictive situation on a street in our cities, and that's a punishment, it's not normal. And as it is not normal, the political leaders, that we have the duty that things happen and that change and that it is reforming and that improve, we have the duty and the requirement to change them in the measure of our possibilities. And that's why, in applying these criteria, it applies..., and I briefly explain three ideas that will inform these criteria – that will actually be written – to the different readers and responsible that will instruct the shippers. First of all, when a person peacefully exercises a law of speech, the interpretation must be made in the light of the exercise of that law of speech. And that, therefore, the exercise of a law peacefully cannot entail a sanction. And this is endorsed by the Constitutional Court – of revolutionary tradition, as you all know – for the European Court of Human Rights – also with a long revolutionary tradition, as you all know, and anti-system – and also for the common sense. And, therefore, this is one of the principles that they will instruct and inform the action of..., the instructions of the different expedients. In the second place – another that is of first right and first common sense –, it has not felt that an action that follows a fault or a crime involves a sanction to call the demonstration and that does not follow the person who practices it, that commits that crime or that fault, that which receives the sanction. It is to say, if someone commits an illegality, a crime or a fault in a certain mobilization, the person responsible is him, he is not the caller. And, therefore, the summoning to this circumstance cannot be submissive, suffer, let us say, the consequences of this action. Another element is to separate. So far, at the same Directorate General of the Police, the agents have opened the dispatchers and the same Directorate General of the Police were investigating. Break it up. This is done in all areas of the right. The person who raises the record is not the one who instructs. And, therefore, from this point of view, they separate one decision from another. That's not leaving anyone in the mood. This is to apply the common sense and exercise of rights and to be consistent – to be consistent – in what has been said and in what has been defended. And in this chamber there is a vast majority of parties that defended the repeal of the law bite and, therefore, should be at the side of the application of these criteria. Not only Republican Left, not only the Party of Socialists and In Comú Podemos, Ciutadans was also against the law bite, I remember. It happens, that time goes by to peel them, and then things become oblivious. But let's not forget that this was also there. Inspiring, these criteria must inspire what is captivating at the hour of sanctioning, because it cannot be another, because the political experience of this government is to retreat. Today I have felt that if we want to introduce policy to security actions, to security policies. It's that if we don't introduce politics, what do we introduce? Today's a bad day to ask this question, I remember. What are we introducing? Do we not, from the point of view of politics, orientate ourselves to security policy? So naturally I do. Or why do they want to vote for the citizens, though? And this statement is very dangerous: "It is that you are introducing elements of politics. Well, of course. Yeah, yeah. The priority for us, for example, is territorialization, it's the feminization of the body, it's rejuvenating, it's territorialization, it's working with local police, it's male rape, it's hate crimes. So yes, naturally this is our position and we will introduce politics. And if we work in this direction from here, we will certainly improve the guarantees of the citizens who exercise their rights. And if from the State and from the Congress of Deputies it is done what has been said and is consistent with not allowing a law to continue to exist that assembles more to the Hungary of Orbán than to an homologable democracy, then surely we will not pass the shame of the Council of Europe cards that warn against the alarm using the law bite and call the parliamentarians for the change, for the alarming and heavy discriminations, and the alarming name of condemnations that the Spanish State makes against protestors to mobilizations. We remain consistent in all our political positions in that we defend and surely can advance much more in what is the central core – and with this end, President – of the duty of this council, which is to guarantee rights and freedoms, and especially of the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-23-2502.259.0	Well, thank you all very much. We suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
