ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.1.0	Very late, we are ready to start a new session of the plenary. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] And today we mourn the death of this disbanded past, the 19th of February, of the Mercedes – she was murdered at the hands of her partner, Martorell. And, therefore, in agreement with the official data of the Department of Interior, this would be the first fatal victim of male violence in Catalonia this year 2022. Masclist violence is a scourge that calls on all of us to remorse our consciences, because it is a sad and tragic reminder that we will not have a truly just society until the day that everyone can live with security and freedom. I want to convey my deepest condolences – and, I'm not sure, from all the members of Parliament – to your family and friends, as well as Martorell's own city. And, naturally, I reiterate the commitment of this chamber, of the Parliament of Catalonia, to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age for its record. In accordance with the protocol of duel against masclistic rapes, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence this late, once the session is suspended, to the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also, in the second place, and according to what the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia establishes, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are a total of 156 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. I also suggest that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the full file that everyone has at its bottom, and that, according to Rule 164, they will be replaced tomorrow morning, at nine o'clock, as appears on item 2 of this plenary session. A plenary session for which there were three Members who have delegated their vote. [[Interview with the Government on audiovisual production in Catalan (postponed)]] [[300-00123/13]] And finally, they also comply with the request made by the Government and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, as provided for in Article 160.6 of the Rules, that the question to the Government on audiovisual production in catalá, which has been presented by this parliamentary group, and which appears as a 14th item of the agenda, will not be substantiated at this plenary session and, therefore, will be adjourned for the next session. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/13]] Next, let's move on to the first of the points we have on the agenda, which is the composition of the Bureau of Parliament. We will proceed to the election of the third secretary. In order to proceed to the election, according to Rule 46 of the Rules, this vote shall be made by means of papers, which shall be placed in the ballot box which is prepared for this purpose. According to Rule 44 of the Rules, each Member must write a name to the paper and the Member who obtains a majority of votes will be elected. Remember that you will consider invalid papers or papers containing a higher number of names than required, or names related to persons who are not members of this Parliament. Papers without written indication will simply consider blank votes. And I also remind the House that the members of the Government who are parliamentarians, the President of the Generality and the members of the Bureau, will be the ones who will vote at the end. I extend the ball that will give place to the reading of the deputies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Number forty-u. Therefore, please, to the first secretary, Mr Ferran Pedret, who started the call of the deputies from this number. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The deputies who are members of the Government and the members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] Once the vote is over, we shall now proceed to the polls to find out who has been elected third secretary of the Bureau. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] The final result of the vote was 46 votes blank, 11 votes María García Fuster, a null vote – in which I had written the name Jordi Turull – and 71 votes to Carles Riera. Therefore, Mr Carles Riera Albert was elected third secretary by 71 votes. [[Greetings.]] I'm asking you to take your seat at the table as a sign of acceptance of the cargo. [[Question to the Government on the situation in the agricultural sector and the environment]] [[300-00116/13]] And let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the new item, the question to the Government on the situation in the agricultural sector, presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. He has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.2.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding myself of the victims of the Spanish fishing vessel Villa de Pitanxo, which was..., which sank last Tuesday off the coast of Newfoundland in eastern Canada. From here I want to convey our deepest condolences and support to all family and friends. I also take this opportunity to express our appreciation for the effort and professionalism of the Cos de Bombers in the work of extinguishing the fire of Rosas. [[Greetings.]] The agri-food sector is the first in the Catalan economy and one of the most dynamic export sectors. It has 163,372 workers and generates an overall turnover of 38,205_million_de_euro. This figure is equivalent to 16.28_percent of Catalonia's GDP; although it is often not valued, we are talking about the great engine of the Catalan economy. We will focus our attention on the needs of our farmers and farmers. We are talking about almost sixty thousand farms – I think this deserves special attention. VOX is concerned that in the last two decades Catalonia has lost 22,000 family farms. By setting just one example, we have lost in recent years ninety per cent of dairy farms, from 4,300 farms to just four hundred. The fall of farms in Catalonia affects the occupation, negatively affects our natural environment and weakens our food sovereignty. In recent months, the situation has been significantly worsening. The pandemic, rising prices of energy, transport and other production-related products in the primary sector have been the drop that has filled the glass. If we add to this the evil policies so-called "ecologicalists carried out by their PSOE partners", we can say that the producing sector is very weakened. We cannot allow ourselves to continue to destroy companies, mostly small ones, by continuing to impose a set of ecodisparate mantras which clash directly with the interests and hopes of those who really know about environmental conservation. Madam Councilwoman, I have to tell you that the separatists have not dealt with the situation of our farmers and farmers in recent years. They have been too focused on the process and little on the things of eating. They have not been able to respond to the need to establish fair prices for our products, have not helped to contain production costs, have not been able to curb speculation, have not promoted sufficient aid to the sector and have not moved a single finger to plant in the face of the blatant unfair competition that imports of products from other parts of the world, obtained through a cheap labour force and without the same phytosanitary requirements that our farmers meet. [[Greetings.]] You have focused, as good urbanites, on your delusions of climate apocalypse and little more. We have thousands of men working to sell their products at a price below the cost price, with serious liquidity problems and with their companies suffering the threat of suspension of payments. Yesterday, the newspaper El Segre, of my province, of Lérida, said that the most indebted companies in Catalonia are, precisely, those of the primary sector, a 54,73_per_cent of them. The situation is serious. Catalan farmers and farmers are not to continue listening to their mantras of the new climate religion with which they bombard us daily or their disastrous globalist agenda, the 2030 agenda, imposed by the European elites. I will tell you in other words, Counsellor, our field is on the verge of extinction and the Government must fully involve itself. We cannot defend the 2030 agenda like you and, at the same time, defend our producers. I know that you will tell me that you do not have all the powers; that said, I must tell you that you have some regional powers that do not deploy decisively, and that you have a very high degree of influence in the Spanish Government. Instead of asking in Madrid for the Netflix in Catalan and a negotiating table to break Spain in two, it must focus on solving the real problems of the family companies that we are dealing with today. That is why, on behalf of the producers working in Catalonia, we ask them to demand that they demarcate themselves from any international agreement or legislation that blames our producers for environmental problems while exonerating and leaving the real culprits unpunished. They require strict application of the principle of Community preference and revision of free trade agreements concluded with third countries. They need to strengthen border controls for all products from third countries that reach our market. Labelling should be strictly monitored to prevent fraud and thus protect our businesses and workers. In short, they lead and demand their government partners to put an end to the various initiatives and all the legislation that they intend to carry our producers with insurmountable regulations. If you don't do it now, we will do it when we get to the government. It's not normal for a farmer to get up at five o'clock, at six o'clock he's in the field, in winter he's cold, in summer he's hot, all that knowing that all he's doing is losing money, because he's going to have to sell it cheaper than his cost of production. He knows that his tomato, his apple, his peach is costing him money thanks, among other things, to unfair price competition with third countries that can produce more and sell cheaper. What can't be is that you pay that guy when he has to fill the tractor deposit twice as much as a few years ago. What can't be that this farmer has to get the bill for light or gas for not being able to pay for it. What can't be is that when that farmer retires, he has to close the company because his son doesn't want to continue the family business after seeing what his father has suffered. What cannot be done is that this farmer sees the CAP as a threat or sees how the administration does not help him and the money is spent on structures in an imaginary state and on eco-lounge. With this diagnosis that VOX makes today – believe me, very attached to the reality of the field – someone is surprised that it is difficult for them to keep the generational relief to those small companies in the sector? This, Counselor, is not a minor issue. Help and incentives must be promoted so that children can continue to pull out of the car. They defend local trade and national product against large multinationals. We need viable, profitable and investment-attractive companies. You committed yourself at the beginning of your term of office to the agricultural and livestock sector to drive a change of direction. Almost twelve months later, the feeling among the main actors in the Catalan field is that everything was left in a bla-bla-bla-y-bla. They are still waiting for you to take this issue seriously. The situation is agonistic; the primary sector is abandoned and unprotected in the social, economic and environmental spheres. Our parliamentary group will continue to promote proposals for the improvement, conservation and development of the sector. It must enter their heads, it is compatible the conservation of the environment with the agricultural activity and competitive livestock. Their environmental delusions cannot be paid via green taxes, which also stifle producers. In short, Mrs Jordà: we ask you for realism, sensitivity with the backbone of our economy, with the people who work the most in Catalonia and the less listened. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.3.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, Mrs Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.4.0	Thank you, President. Very late in the day, all of them. Before, also, to begin with, allow 'to send a message of support to all the effects of bombers, to all the ADFs, to all the rural agents, to all the GEPIFs, in short, to all the emergency services that are working in the fire of the head of Creus. We are... in these hours, in these moments there is almost a cremated surface of four hundred hectares. It's also true..., it means that we have it practically stabilized and, without any doubt, it will be one of the fires... – this one of the head of Creus –, the most extensive that has ever occurred in a fever month since we have data, huh? I mean, all the support and all the heart of the world. Miri, Mr. López: This government has clear, absolutely clear priorities in agriculture and in the field of agriculture. In fact, this government, especially this councillor, knows what the current situation of our country's agri-food sector is. He knows and knows his demands perfectly; he knows his demands and basically acts on this basis. Always with a vision of the future; always, as it cannot be otherwise, listening and working together. So far beyond their expressions and words that they want to sound... I don't know if it's coming out, but they want to sound great, beyond their bravery about the sector, we know what the way is to go. And the path, if I may, is the one that began to collect the great work done for Constellera Serret, the one that we have already promoted the later legislature and with which we follow compromises, sense dubte, to the cent_per_cent– to the cent_per_cent–: strategic policies, sense dubte, that have assumed an advent for the agri-food sector of our country. Those policies that are necessary, and that are basically for the cohesion of the territory and for the equality of territorial opportunities in our country. Therefore, I will take advantage of this intervention to address from here to the sector, to the pages, to the pages, to the branches, to the branches, to the farmers, in short, from this country, to all the people who work the land, the real managers of the territory. And I will begin by explaining them to what they have probably heard me say on some occasion: in this country, in Catalonia, we have a clear pattern of how we want to produce and what we want to produce. And it is necessary for us to put in value aspects such as environmental pollution, sense of doubt, food safety or also the quality of productions. And today I'll try to explain exactly that. The biggest challenge we have as a country is to promote an agri-food sector that is sustainable, and when we talk about a sustainable agri-food sector we talk about a sustainable sector economically – importantly – and socially, but also – also – despite much weight to you, mediately. It is to say, to find the balance between economic sustainability and the environment, and, at the same time, the preservation of territorial cohesion. And make food sovereignty and environmental, labour and social sustainability compatible. The world, and therefore our country, too, faces, from now on, times that are immensely – immensely – important for what it does to the production model of agriculture and also to the management of the territory. After our company claims us, and claims us why do we take them, huh? to achieve a product model, as we say, fairer, more respect for the environment and more respect for the environment as well as the environment. But as much as we need to build this new model based on sustainability, we need to make sure – ensuring – that our sector, the primary sector, is obviously competitive. Catalonia is one of the main food clusters in Europe, at the level of Llombardy, at the level of Denmark, and is a clear exponent of an imported, implanted and widely distributed model of the territory, both at the level of primary production and also at the level of the own processing industry. To be competitive, though, we have to take on changes and – at these times even more, eh? – accompany the sector. There are a few comments: the first, as we say, is the climate change, which is already today an evidence that no one – I repeat: no one – can deny, and to which we must face from all points of view. In the field of primary production and the agri-food industry, it is clear that the role that can be played is absolutely transcendental. This is why we have begun to define strategies such as, for example, the bioeconomy, which must allow us to achieve objectives in a sustainable way, to circulate and also to generate wealth and occupation for the territory at a time. Since the government we have already defined the strategy of the bioeconomy, in which the projects that fit in combine innovation – importantly – sustainability, inclusiveness and efficient management of our natural resources, which, I remember, are clearly finite. One of the other challenges for us to maintain this level of excellence is food safety, which is now already double the size of food supply for the entire population, but also the guarantee that these products are produced without, are safe products, are produced, in short, of quality. We must continue without inflow into issues such as animal and plant health, which are transcendental, animal welfare and traceability, and all that guarantees us good health and well-being for the entire population. I would also like to highlight the high level of competitiveness shown in this aspect in Catalonia. Without doubt we could not be captivating, as we are, at the level of exports of food products, if we did not do well, if we did not do our sector with all those guarantees and obviously also with extremely high levels in matter such as this, huh? , safety and quality agri-food. The work that is done in this area, together with the production sector, with its associations and the techniques that work there, is of extreme professionalism and a high level of excellence. That is why we have also begun to define our own principles, putting in value the food produced at our home in Catalonia, and ensuring that the Catalan people have access, both physically and economically, to a healthy, safe, quality food. And, in this, one of our essential instruments is the strategic plan of Catalonia's food supply. And it is true that we are concerned about the return of the number of farms to our country, obviously, especially the smaller ones and those that are based on a model of family exploitation, because this also puts the balance in peril to the territory. And that's what we're working on, too. But the defence of the sector went much further, honourable Member, than its proclamations. They know that Catalonia's beef and veal sector is a fundamental pillar for agri-food economic development. The Chinese industry – and you have made reference to it – is the main agri-food sector in our country, with a volume of trade of more than €7,000_million, and represents more than 30 per cent of the sector's volume of trade, and with a forty_percent of occupation. Catalonia exports 51,53_per_cent, in volume, of the total exported meat of the Spanish State and 22,6_per_cent to the European Union as a whole. And we want this to go on feeling that way, but we're just saying we can't make it. The government's commitment is to act. And let's quickly clarify what actions we are taking: the draft law on sustainable agricultural production; the decree on agricultural and agricultural production; the new action plan on organic agricultural production 2023 hours 2027 and the plan on sustainable plant protection, in line with the Farm to Fork strategy of the European Green Pact; the modification, also, of the decree – which we have not talked about at any time – of ramadera order, and the strategic plan of the extensive ramaderia. Therefore, and in conclusion, the worst that can be done for this sector, and, in fact, for any other – let me say so, Member – is to use it politically for its personal purpose. But I am not sorry that, while you are doing this, we will continue to listen to you, we will continue to participate in the farmyards and in whatever way you allow us to work together, with this governance that characterizes us; we will continue to accompany you in those aspects in which we may evolve, yes, and we will also continue to defend you as land managers. Because we think of this land, we think of its landscape and its biodiversity, we will also defend those who live from the land – there is no doubt about it. To decide between all of us and which country we want, and, I repeat, what we want to eat and how we want to produce it; to listen to everyone, to dialogue to build, in short, a shared vision of the future, a country with towns and villages that fight, that are alive and that generate added value and opportunities for all and for all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.5.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.6.0	Thank you, President. It is clear that they think they do everything very well – the truth is that I didn't expect anything else. I am not going to go too far because I believe that everything has become clear in my earlier speech. I'm just gonna give you three clues you can do. Minister Planas; feel with him and try to solve the problems I mentioned earlier: prices, the CAP, fuel and transport prices and unfair competition. Then, since he's there, he can sit with Minister Garzón, and shut his mouth. Tell him that he does not despise intensive livestock farming, that all Catalans cannot afford to pay for the ecological chops that you love so much; tell him that the Catalan countryside would appreciate him not to discredit our products, and tell him not to repeat as a snitch the slogans whispered to him in the ear of the Secretary of State of the 2030 Agenda, who is, incidentally, the secretary general of the Communist Party in Spain. And, thirdly, you, Mrs Jordà, can do much more: talk to Mr Giró, extend the aid to the thousands of companies that need it, carry out powerful campaigns promoting Catalan products, punch the table to speed up the major infrastructures such as the Segarra-Garrigues channel, which has been running for decades – which, by the way, is the clear example that you have not taken the problems of the sector seriously –; bet on technological innovation, increase aid, reduce bureaucracy and green taxes, which do so much harm. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.7.0	To make the reply, the counselor returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.8.0	Miri, he said so many things in such a short time, and so many beasts, that I, the truth, don't even know where to start. Miri, sit down with the... me, from the entrance, I absolutely sit down with everyone. And, in fact, I have to tell you that we don't shut anyone's mouth, because, if not, gentlemen, if we did, Mr. Lopez, maybe I would have covered it there today, so to speak. But we don't; we don't, huh? [[Greetings.]] We're sitting absolutely with everyone. With Mr. Planas we've done it on various occasions, and we've asked him... – I don't know what his opinion is, huh? – We've asked for a territorial plan, huh? , a Catalan dish, specific for our country – we have asked for it. I don't know, you're doing this... I think he's a little off, 'cause it's not getting any clearer. I still don't know if you prefer the eco-friendly and close-kilometer and zero-kilometer chops or not. I still don't get it, do I? And then they criticize sustainability and they criticize the 2030 agenda. Fi, huh? No, no, no, I haven't made that clear yet. But the truth is, I'm worried about other things a lot more than that. He was talking about the increase in raw materials – an evidence. He was talking about fair prices. I am very convinced... ; I would just miss that you do not defend the fair prices to the producer, obviously. This is what we're working on. There's a lot of tools here. All those who are in our abyss... not the least, that we are applying to them. There's no others – there's no others, huh? And now I don't control what you voted for in the law of the food chain at the Congress of Deputies, but I will look at it. I will also look at what you vote for in all the international conventions that pass through the Congress of Deputies, I will also look at it, which is where many of the policies with third countries are defined for which it is concerned about the entry of other foods. Is CAP a threat? Home, look, I don't know, whether it's a threat or not. But we are the ones who try to get all the money that comes from Europe to where they have to arrive in the best way. And with the skills, which, of course, I'm telling you, they're limited in this sense because we don't have a territorial plan, we do what we can. And I assure you that the sector shares it, because, among other things, this department for the first time in history has a pact signed with the agricultural organizations and the federation of cooperatives of the country – for the first time – following and asking for a line for the common agricultural policy in our country. That is to say, with Minister Planas I have taken care of it, with Councillor Giró I do it every Tuesday and many other days – it does not fade, that in this sense we are in the same direction – and with Minister Garzon I have not had the opportunity to sit down there, but I am fully assembling because we have many fears – certainly they take care of us and worry about us in this case both. And more. In the end, we are the ones who defend the Netflix in Catalan and defend the primary sector, because we can defend it all at once. Because that worries and occupies this country. In short, we are the ones who defend the 2030 Agenda and those who think the sector is sustainable, obviously, because this country has been built with those who have always defended the territory, those who have always taken care of it. And if not, by proof, a button: tomorrow look at any of the photos of the fire that we have held today in the Empordà and will see the mosaic and see the wines, the wines of the Empordà, the Alt Empordà..., how the landscape is untouchable just where it is managed. And that's obviously our pages, that's our pages, that's our pages, that's our rowers, and that's our rowers, that's our rowers, that's nearby, that's who lives and values this country, that's who works the land, every day. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.9.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about wildlife and its impact on the agricultural world. [[Question to the Government about wildlife and its impact on the agricultural world]] [[300-00119/13]] It was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And you have the word to make the presentation of Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.10.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, for some time now the focus has been placed on the backwardness of agricultural and forestry activity in some areas of our country, the generational replete, the loss of purchasing power of people who are engaged in agriculture... in short, the challenges facing the primary sector in our home. And, in fact, in the debate there are different elements that also have a different import and a different magnitude in the agricultural or forestry world, but when we hear it we need to evaluate, we need to debate and, finally, we need to make decisions because they can become very relevant. And we believe that wildlife saves Catalonia and its consequences are one of these factors. It is clear that the presence of wildlife has increased in Catalonia in recent years. The causes are diverse, but possibly the fact that agricultural activity and also forestry in certain areas are missing something to see. If we add enough food and lack of natural predators to this, we can get to the current situation: certain species have become a real pest. This fact, the proliferation of certain species, causes heavy damage to the conreus, to the agricultural infrastructure, and also causes and can cause a real disaster to the branch. And I don't mean that, in some cases, they can also represent a danger in mobility causing traffic accidents. We all know, therefore, many accidents that have occurred in this sense, and some of them fatal consequences. As an example, and because we have an idea of the magnitude of the subject, during the 18-19 hunting season they captured the Segria 54,531 rabbits, while the 19-20 season was captured almost 79,000. At Urgell, for example, it went from 23,000 to 46,000. The increase in catches from one year to the next shows us the great increase that is produced and can give us an idea of... well, the affect that this entails for agriculture. But there are other species that, as I said, can cause heavy damage to the storehouse for the effect of transmission of disease. And here we could put the example of the goats of the Ports, that 2015 was known that I was sick and 2020 this disease had ended with the eighty-five percent of the goat population. But not only that, but this represents a danger for the branches and for the shepherds who could come into contact with the dead animals. In fact, the department was responsible until 2019 for the antiparasitic treatment that protects the animal from the spleen, but it stopped supplying this product to the shepherds and it also did not remove the dead animals from this disease, which we have said is a danger to health, and in fact, some pages were contagious to contact the dead animals at their farms. But we could also talk about the deer or the cabirol. As for the cabirol, taking the same periods as it was before, we see that almost all the regions where there is a presence of cabirols the catches increase, and a lot, from one year to the next, with special incidence in the mountain regions, but also in others of the prelitoral. A clear case is the Priorat, in which the 19-20 season will catch 326. This situation made it necessary to give up even special authorizations for hunting, why? , for the strong impact it had on the agriculture of the region. And as for the deer, obviously, it is not as much as the cabirol; it is concentrated, therefore, its population in the regions of Pirinius and Prepirinius, but where it is concentrated, in these regions, there is a strong incidence, especially for the extensive ramaderia. And we told them so because we could talk to the branches of Bergedah, for example, that they would explain to us how they would go so that their branches could go to pasture and when the branches came to the farms, so there were no pastures left because the deer had passed there before. But, in addition, these branches of deer can spread the bovine beast that spends a lot of time in open camp, and, therefore, they can fight very severe diseases such as tuberculosis or brucellosis. And if these diseases come into a branch, they may have to sacrifice an animal or two, or they may have to make a sanitary emptiness, that's to say, sacrifice all the animals in that branch, right? Imagine what that means to the rowers. Therefore, it is not about a minor issue, it is not about an anecdote, it is about a very important issue for mountain rangers who are holding their farms. And at the end and the end, it means maintaining some farms and a productive model, that of the extensive branch, which we have all agreed that we need to empower and that we need to help. And here the department, counsel, has not done the dues and has to do them; it has to do them through the coordination of the different general directions that the department has, but also from coordination with other departments. And here we think, for example, of the Interior, since now the rural agents are in this department. And they have to do the job because..., basically, for three objectives, with three objectives: the prevention of the transmission of disease, the prevention of affectation to conreus or pastures and, ultimately, the prevention of damage to those farms that we might say are strategic for the country, if we take into account the need to maintain territorial balance. We've talked about rabbits, Hispanic goat, cabirols, deer, and we've finally left the star of the party – if you'll let me just say so – the senglar. Why? Because, if a species we understand needs special control, counsel, this is the signar. All of us come to the top of the images of the singles walking through the streets of Barcelona, especially during the pandemic, but obviously, before they arrive in this urban environment, their proliferation in rural areas has increased exponentially. And the damage caused by his action has multiplied. We know the follow-up program to speak to Catalonia, which was born at the end of the 1990s, and which was jointly promoted by the Generality and the Barcelona City Council. This program has as its objective to know the demographic trend of signar and to promote cooperation between managers, technicians and hunters. But here, Counselor, I would like to fill in the hunt, which continues to feel the most effective method for the containment of singular populations, even though we understand that it does not have to be the only one. I deixi'm doing an incis respect to hunting. And it is that, she advises, we must be able to ensure that the hunt can coexist with other uses of the natural environment. We have to avoid accidents, like what happened a few days ago was produced in Maresme, which really are an authentic disgrace. I am convinced that with the possibilities that technology gives us, we can do it. For example, with the creation of a map where it is reflected every week where the beatings and the period of affection that can be consulted for those people who want to do sports and who know where it is possible or where it is not advisable to go. It would be a possibility. Therefore, we avoid accidents in the way possible. I'm convinced this interests all of us. It interests the administration, it interests the hunters and hunters, and it interests the citizenry in general. Therefore, hunting remains the most effective instrument to contain, we say, these populations of certain species. In fact, we see, in the case of the senglar, as well as the hunting, the name of the captures increased year by year. If, at the beginning of the 1990s, the name of the catch was no more than the deu_mil, in the 19-20 season it was 57,000. Therefore, an increase that does not flow. Its proliferation carries considerable damage in conreus, in agricultural infrastructure, involves traffic accidents, as we say, but it can also lead to the transmission of disease to humans and animals. And not just that, but it affects biodiversity, since it puts in danger some plant species, some forest ocelles that do not land or some colonies of aquatic or marine ocelles. And it is especially worrying about the possible contamination of the Catalan pig house by the swine pesta. This infection is not an impossible situation. In fact, some European countries have already suffered and are not patenting the consequences. For example, Germania can no longer export pork meat. Or, for example, there have also been cases in Belgium or Italy. Affected countries have taken measures such as building tanks in areas with the greatest incidence of disease or the elimination of populations in some fringes. And here we have to say that, as epidemics don't understand borders – and as far as we know, we're after the covid – we need to find solutions right away. And also seek them together with other communities, which can see'safeties for the transmission of swine fever if it enters us through France. We need to talk to the Basque Country, we need to talk to Navarre, we need to talk to Aragó and we need to weave a common strategy to stop the pace of the senglers possibly infected through the Pyrenees. In any case, it is an issue that needs to be worked on immediately, because the Catalan agricultural sector is playing a lot. These days we have known the good export data of the agri-food sector, with the pig in the front. We talk about record data of more than 12,000_million euros in exports. Therefore, we play a lot from the economic point of view and also from territorial cohesion. In short, the presence of the wildlife, of the kinegetic fauna in Catalonia, has important effects, and the plan of prevention of damages and risks arising from the kinegetic fauna 17-18 of its department clearly analyzes it, and puts the emphasis on those points that are not adequate to deal with the problem. The government announced in its government program a new plan for this legislature. At the moment, we don't know anything about it yet. We have not advanced in this sense and the only one that has advanced, in view of the data we have, is the population of the kinegetic fauna and the damage it produces. Prevention systems have not improved, damage coverage to agricultural holdings has not improved, and legislation has not advanced to a more effective and effective wildlife control model. The second part of my intervention will point out some possible solutions to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.11.0	Thank you very much. Next, the words "Conseller of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda", Ms. Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.12.0	Well, again, very late, all of them. Thank you, President. Member of Parliament Ibarra, thank you also for this question. He knows perfectly well and surely shares it, like a servant, that Catalonia is a country with a high natural wealth, but also with a high wealth of habitats. More than half of the country, approximately sixty-four per cent, is forest mass and, at the same time, therefore, we have a high diversity of landscapes and, obviously, of conreus. A country of living eco-systems that also make it possible to beat the country and are, in the sense of doubt, the basis of this sustainable development that we are talking about. From this advice, we focus on the preservation and protection of agricultural areas as a factor of food production, of natural resources and also as an element of conservation of culture and also of its biodiversity. And it's no accident, in fact; this great wealth and diversity implies that we have a large number of potential habitats in which kinegetic species can thrive and, in fact, these coexist with traditional uses of soil as well. But, certainly, in the last few years, there has been an increase in kinegetic fauna in all of Europe – you were talking about it – and also in our home. I mean, there's been an increase in that wildlife that can be hunted in our house. There have been a number of social changes that we have experienced and that have left behind the kinegetic activity. Changes in certain territorial uses, the establishment of special protection zones and the cultural evolution of our country's own society. All this has as a consequence the increase, let's say, out of control – the increase out of control – of certain species of kinegetic fauna. And, in fact, I won't find out a lot about them if I tell them that the most prominent species of this situation... you haven't talked about some of them, but you've focused on the signar and I've also focused on the signar and the forest rabbit. This increase has entailed important consequences – it has also spoken –. In the first place, about citizen safety: traffic accidents. Secondly, lost – for us extremely important – in the primary sector for the damage they produce, therefore, these animals. And in the third place, the increase in certain health risks – he also talked about –: infections or infestations for people, and severe impacts on biodiversity and also natural spaces. And it's very possible that many of you today, so you're here in these escons, or some of you who see us from the outside, have found yourself at least in one of these situations. Of course the traffic, or if you are paid and dedicated to agriculture, very possibly also with the appearance of signar or rabbit. In fact, the Catalan society in its conjunction, but also the European society, in the past few years is not as successful as it would want to control these species. And all that I've just explained to them doesn't go back, but there's the risk I'm increasing, huh? This is the reality and this is what we find ourselves with. In parallel, and speaking above all of the cultural and social changes he was narrating a while ago, it is also true that the fact that the hunt has undergone a major transformation in the past half century is undeniable, huh? It has gone from being a productive activity to an activity of lleure, but above all, to keep it present – you said so too – as a necessary action for the control and management of many kinegetic species. A change that also requires a change of management model – let's say so – closer to conservation, and above all managed the wildlife saving kinegetic, maintaining its recreational uses and working closely with the territory. Every day there are fewer hunters, let's also tell us. Every day there are fewer and every day there are more conflicts and problems arising from these species. This is, therefore, a major challenge that we are facing in this context. As you can see, we're aware, it couldn't be otherwise, the situation, and, in fact, it's been a while since we worked to reverse it, huh? In this sense, during the year 2021, this department has raised more than half a million euros in aid with two clear objectives: to encourage senglar catches to reduce its density in the environment and also to contribute to prevention and fight against the diseases of the senglar that can affect the species branches and their conditioning for the introduction of their flesh into the marketing circuit – important. Also to promote the profit of meat come from fish caught in order to introduce it into the marketing circuit by means of its transport to the food circuit, and also to reinforce in this way the first objective. And, in fact, we are still working on this line by 2022, preparing a new call for help where it is planned to increase this economic endowment; in fact, as much as we can, and at the same time, incorporate a new line to promote the transport of wild gamers from the catch point to the hunting meat marketing logistics point or to the handling establishment if it is the case of game meat. Another of the department's task forces is the population control of these kinegetic species. If we had more time, I'm sure we could spread out into all these species and explain what we're doing in every case, huh? You talked about the cabirol, you talked about the deer, but if you'll let me, I'll focus on the activities of controlling abundance, like I said, rabbits and singlars, huh? If it looks like it, I'll start with the rabbit. We have increased, in this case, the skilled hunting period in those regions where this species produces damage and does so in a more serious way, especially in the agrarian world, which concerns us and deals with us, huh? In this case, Lleida comarques, Garrigues, Pla d'Urgell, Segria and Urgell. More action. It is prohibited to hunt guinea pigs in special-regime cinegetic lands with exceptional authorisations for damage produced for the rabbit during any of the last two seasons. Specifically, because of the impact of the forest rabbit populations that cause the conreus and the agricultural infrastructure– i.e., the reason for this inquiry– there has been a ban on the release and repopulation of this species in these regions; Lleida's communities, but also in Tarragona and in part on the Ebre Lands. And lastly, the exceptional authorities have intensified – it seems to me that there is also a reference – to capture this species outside of the season's skilled hunting season, huh? If we are at an exceptional time, we must take exceptional measures. Thus, during 2019 262 performances were exceptionally authorized, and the past 2020, 436. You're afraid of the singular pig. In this case, we have applied measures to reduce or stabilize its density, maintaining the hunting pressure, increasing the effectiveness of the beatings and applying other measures that are necessary. According to the annual resolution of hunting sees, in this case, an ample period of skill has been maintained, which has obviously widened for the hunting of the senglar pig, between the first diumenge of September until the last diumenge of March, huh? , both inclusive. We maintain the ban on feeding wild boars, as well as exceptional cases, and we also maintain the authorisation of the wild Vietnamese pig hunt, which are there, and the hybrids of this one with wild boar during singular hog baptisms, both during the season as skilled as in the exercise of exceptional authorizations to which we referred, for damages. It must also be said that measures are being taken to reduce damage to agriculture by means of more agile procedures to carry out beatings and water, in this case in the summer, during the months of June, July, August until September, in the case of damage to the conreus. This is why I have explained that the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda is developing at these times a strategic plan that aims to give compliments at the level, obviously, of the whole country, and with special actions in areas with major needs, which are what we have basically commented, of a range of actions. In fact, we work in particular to prevent and reduce access to food for these species– for us this is very important–, to devote more economic resources– with this assumption we can do it–, to promote the actions of the hunters– you also did not talk –, and to have more human means to do or to stop this regression and then manage to reverse it. It is an operational response to the challenges that generate the high, as I say, population levels that have affected various kinegetic species, and at the same time, prevent and effectively and sustainably control the risks and damage they generate. In short, reduce growth and reduce the populations of singlar and rabbit – of all species, but these in particular, which are the ones that bring us the most damage – to the areas most affected by overpopulation, as we have said, absolved, therefore, also the balance of these populations, the natural balance that they must have towards our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.13.0	In the turn of the line, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.14.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, I see that we agree in the analysis of the data we have and in the diagnosis. But what's clear is that it has to go from diagnosis and data to facts and realities, and we think that this department, now as it is, doesn't. And, in fact, data gives us reason. In other words, 2017-2018 is a plan for the prevention of the risks of wildlife, and we are at 2022 and this fauna has not minvat, the populations have not minvat, but they have increased. And, therefore, we are faced with a very difficult problem – a very difficult problem – that affects the sector and concerns the sector, and we have seen demonstrations of pages and pages and branches, and we have also seen demonstrations of unions that pose on the table the important problem that we have. In fact, this plan of prevention of damages and risks caused by the kinegetic fauna made a diagnosis of the situation in which they were at the time and said literally: "We have a very big problem. They had a problem... it's very big. Imagine you've been here five years, haven't you? Therefore, it is necessary to undertake the actions that are opportune. You said: "We will make a new plan. It's fine, but if this plan doesn't..., it's left on the table or it's placed in the cove and the actions it determines don't apply and human and economic resources don't exist, that's not going to do much good. In fact, this five-year-old plan was talking... one of the first measures it pointed out was the hunting law, it was the need to make a new hunting law, because we remember that we have a hunting law of the 70th, of the last century. So obviously things have changed a lot and this new law should be addressed. Hunting is an essential activity in order to contain the kinegetic species; we said so. It is certain that the company's vision has changed respect for hunting and it has also changed its natural one. It's not a food supply, it's more like an oci activity. But what's clear is that we can't criminalize hunting and we can't get hunters full responsibility for wildlife control. That's impossible. And, in fact, it's proving impossible. Therefore, it will be necessary to look for mechanisms that complement the hunt, such as professionalization in the control of the populations, the performance of enterprises of prevention and control of the fauna... Ep, but this we must take into account that it will have a cost to the Administration, and we must want to see if we want to take over, right? Also the figure of the hunter enabled or the action of the rural agents through the Special Group of Cinematic Management and Capture of Animals, which, certainly, created 2015 and is in 2022 and has not yet unfolded. Research and investigation must also allow us to find methods of controlling populations of kinegetic species where we cannot hunt. It is obvious that in urban and peri-urban environments hunting is not a solution and therefore we need to look for these methods that do follow. And, in fact, he's working on it. We know that there is some project from the Autonomous University that goes in this sense and, therefore, we believe that we need to continue with the investigation and development also in these themes. They are measures that the plan already points and, therefore, I am not explaining new things to it. Let's see this new place where it looks like they're working, see what they're proposing. I also mentioned this in my intervention: coordination with other autonomous communities, especially those that can shield the areas of non-singlars coming from France so that the African swine fever does not arrive, because this would really be a very difficult problem, and coordination with other sectors and with other departments. We say Interior, for rural agents, but also with other actors involved – hunters, farmers, ramaders, guardians of wildlife reserves or natural parks. Without the involvement of the agents, it will be difficult, therefore, to contain the problem. This coordination should also allow us to have, in some ways, an approximate cent of the animals. It is clear that there will be species that will be easier than others, but if we know what we are possibly talking about we can face with more guarantees. Counselor, this is not a minor issue, and, Members, Members, sometimes we don't give it the importance it has, but it has a lot to do with the sector and it can have a lot more. It is a matter of great concern to the agricultural sector for the effects it has on the current situation, but above all for the effects it may have on the future. Therefore, we ask that from the government put down the needle and find the necessary solutions and apply them with the human and material resources that are needed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.15.0	And also in the turn of the line, the words of Councilwoman Jordan are again held.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.16.0	Thank you, President. Yeah, I'm also glad that... well, actually, I'd rather we didn't coincide with this problem, huh? But I absolutely agree with you and I do not find out about it now if I say that it is a very important – very important – problem for our sector and for other derivatives. Before I leave it a consideration, which I do not forget, respects the African swine fever. I think I already know, because I think I've explained it on more than one occasion, but in any case we, from the Directorate General for Agriculture and Ramaderia, have been one of the first directions of the matter of the State that we started working three years ago, when the first focus was detected – the first – with an interdepartmental commission both technical and political, and the technique is meeting very well. I don't mean to be wrong, but I'd say two weeks ago he got the tech together, in this case, that's to say, we're on top. We work with the community of Aragó, senseless doubt, because obviously the ordinary pigs do not understand borders, obviously, and we are extremely aligned also in this case with the ministry, as it cannot otherwise be, because this concerns us and all of us. And I'm gonna get a little bit more into the stuff I gave him before, huh? In fact, from the department we are final – and when I say final – I want to finish – and the week that I think we will be willing, if it seems to the parliamentary groups, that the director will come to explain this strategic plan, which I will present, if I am not mistaken, then also in many days. I mean, we're done, so we can hear each other. The one that happens, who will see and agree with me that it is very extensive, that there are many things that you also commented on. And, in fact, very timely, this question this week – let me just say so. I, in any case, we can finish talking about it. But in any case, there's a lot of action. I think it's very broad, that it's very comprehensive and it's plenty of things that you also talked about, because the environments are multiple, they're a lot of things, and to name a few, so, for example, a normative update, beyond the law, which, as you know, is a topic that we need to address, but the law has its time and, although we're dealing with it, we need to update the law. And here I also hope that we will find consensus in this Parliament and obviously count on your parliamentary group. It will also be necessary to find a balance of kinegetic populations with ecosystems and agricultural farms, obviously. This means reducing the density, sense of doubt, of populations in species of risk; reducing the optimal conditions of the overpopulation of species, obviously; adapting farms with which we can accompany and also help to reduce the risk of damage, and encouraging the marketing and profit of hunting meat, which here we also have a very important thread and work from many derivatives. And another of very important also – he spoke to the principle of his inquiry – reduce left-handedness in this case of vehicles in infrastructures. And on this subject, obviously, it's the Squad moss, it's the Department of the Interior that's in charge of recording all these wildlife hits saved to the reel. And, therefore, it is a matter of data that are centralized to the Interior, but we are also connoisseurs and, obviously, we are also concerned. In general terms, they are all..., this wind, so there are many actions that are ultimately due to reduce the loss of biodiversity and protected species of road and rail infrastructure. And here's a lot of things and an extensive fan. All folded..., also let's say that we have to do this hand in hand with the sector; we have been working there for some time and, for that reason, we are already in a position to explain what this strategic plan is that, I repeat, we have been working on the side of the sector. In fact – and I finish – the world... – and in this it will also convince, unlike VOX's companies, sure you will agree with me – we are facing a global challenge of transformation, sense of doubt, also of the production model and the management of the territory, in short. And Catalonia, therefore, does not escape from this. And here in our country the challenge is capital, especially for the landscape and natural wealth, for the high biodiversity of conreus, diversity, and that all folds generate a quantity of habitats, as we say to principle, immense potentials, right? Or the kinegetic species, so, in this case, coexist with the traditional uses of soil. And we've got to be bosses, all of us, to find this way out. So let's work to deal with these reptes, which generate the high levels of kinegetic populations to which we refer, and prevent and effectively and sustainably control the risks and damage they generate. In short, therefore, we present it and I also hope to count with all its complicity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.17.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the need for a new just financing, presented for the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. [[Asking the Government about the need for a new just financing]] [[300-00118/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.18.0	[[The orator sighs. Rialles.]] No, it's just that I was used to the fact that when I was given a full schedule, we did, but fine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.19.0	It's that we've been voting so fast.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.20.0	That's how I like it. Well, then, good afternoon to all of you. Counselor, this inquiry, as you can imagine, is what you want to alert Parliament and the Government of the need and urgency to push a change in the funding model of the Generality. The current model has long been questioned. This Parliament has done so on more than one occasion, with different political forces taking time to position us there. We ourselves two weeks ago presented general lines for proposals for change and requests for consent. The current funding model, granted in 2019, had to be revised in 2014. Political blocs of the different governments of the State maintain a model that is exhausted and unjust, but also our own resignation from leadership and promote a more just and necessary alternative to bringing different territories of the State together with whom we share tax abuse of an unbalanced and obsolete model with which we can build a more just and solid alternative that advances towards full fiscal responsibility. Catalonia we have to re-lead a financing proposal. We have years of setbacks, we have to go back into self-government and, to do so, we need fiscal sovereignty and economic sufficiency. The Government of the Generalitat cannot hold this debate, it cannot fail to participate in this debate with proposals and alliances. This would be done out of business and went to the detriment of the citizenry. The financing has to occupy one of the central carpets of the dialog table with the Government of the State. If we really want to advance in self-government and guarantee the full and quality provision of the welfare and care services of our people better and better, it is necessary that funding and self-government are central elements at the dialogue table and negotiation with the Government of the State. This is one of the most repeated consensuss, one of the country's consensuss: 72.5_percent of the citizenry, in the wake of these, believes that this..., financing is one of the necessary solutions to the political conflict we live in. In Comú We may long ago claim major leadership of the Government in the construction of a country proposal, which allows us to strengthen our position before the State. We have also asked to coordinate with the Valencia and the Islands, with whom we share not only language and culture, but also a negative fiscal balance that affects a lack of funding that limits the ability to move forward. We are willing, we believe, to build a proposal of own and solidary heritage that gives fiscal autonomy to Catalonia and is supported in the principle of fraternity, solidarity with the rest of the people and the citizenship of the State. We need to put forward proposals on the table of the Ministry of Heritage which has opened the debate on the new financing model. We know that it has expired years ago and the proposals coming from the ministry are clearly insufficient and counter to the interests of Catalans and Catalans. Today, all the communities of the State are working on their proposal and their alliances, while the Government of Catalonia unfortunately refuses to defend the interests of Catalan citizens in these debates. Galicia and the rest of the smaller towns are organized, the Valencian country and the Illes take a clear and obvious leadership. In the meantime, the only contribution of the Catalan Government has been some attachments to the proposal of the Ministry of History girls in a hurry, at the last minute and that we have known through the communication media. The councillor did not dare to bring them to Parliament, a clear sign of the government's political will in relation to this issue. We don't know at this time whether or not the government has a proposal on the new funding model. What we do know is that we have an agreed proposal for a combination of Catalan political forces in favour of reform. A proposal built from the consensus can give us enough strength to listen to our voice and our interests. It is possible to weave a great consensus of country on a proposal that improves funding and advances self-government. It is possible to build this political consensus in Parliament that translated the social consensus of the seventy-two and a half percent into a Parliament proposal that will have the strength of unity to be negotiated. To refuse to enter into this negotiation in the hope of future ideals is to conform ourselves to remain installed in the permanent complaint, it is to maintain a political logic that uses the limitations of an unjust, outdated and obsolete model to shield and justify the government's paralysis. A paralysis that is renunciation to advance self-government, a renunciation to improve people's healing and life. In the absence of the current model, we must counterproposals. Proposals for a new just financing and the strength of consensus. The initial proposal of the ministry does not please us, but it has the virtue of opening the debate and this we must take advantage of. We know the one representing for Catalonia the flag of the Rajoy Government, the PP, centralize, retail and offer Catalonia. The infra-financing of Catalonia and other communities is not a divine curse, it is the result of a reactionary and centralizing political conception. The defiscalizing culture and an unbalanced and unfair financing model is consolidating the model of Ayusista Madrid, refuges of great fortunes to the emperor of tax dumping. I need to break this logic, I need to get over this model. For this reason, once the state government has opened the debate on financing to modify the model, we need to work for a new decentralized model that guarantees resources for everyone. It's possible to do that. This is why we propose to work to build consensus and proposal from three foundational pillars. We want to create a committee of study in Parliament where we can work together on the political diversity that we represent. We want to establish, on the basis of a new model, the establishment of a tax land in taxes transferred to the autonomous communities, with assets, estates or others to end the unfair competition and tax havens in our country. And we want to respect the principle of normality, ending with the three foundations that only generate distortions and hardships for our country. On these three pillars, we can advance in a proposal for a new financing system more just, a model that we propose to settle on the following objectives: increase the resources managed for Catalonia, guarantee at each level of government sufficient resources to the distribution of effective competitions, increase the financial autonomy, gain transparency, guarantee the principle of regularity and, therefore, clarify the winding-up system, and fully develop the Catalonia Tax Agency in consortium with the State Tax Administration Agency so that a single window model can operate in Catalonia. This is not a closed proposal, it's our starting point. And we offer it to work together with those forces of this chamber that share compromises to advance into a new just financing model. This proposal can be led jointly from Catalonia with other territories that, like Valencia and the Islands, have needs and requests similar to ours, with whom we can share agendas and proposals to build a true Mediterranean alliance for fiscal justice, social progress and climate compromise. We are talking about disposing of the economic resources that are generated in the country to better serve social and economic policies and to ensure the financial adequacy of self-government, and to do so from a proposal consistent with the principle of territorial solidarity, ensuring that the combination of territories has the capacity to provide basic services equitably, whenever a similar fiscal effort is made. We are talking about having the necessary resources because the different territories can develop their skills, especially social spending and investment in promoting employment and the social and solidary economy, environment, energy transition, knowledge and human capital. That is why we are calling on Parliament and the Government to include the reform of the financing system as one of the priorities of Catalonia, to push forward in this Parliament a work commission that allows us to agree on a proposal as widely as possible with all those political groups that share this objective and that allow us to advance in sufficiency, in self-government, in justice and solidarity. It's possible, let's do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.21.0	In the turn of the answer, has the word the Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.22.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gallego, I have listened with great interest to your intervention. I have done so with a good predisposition and with the conviction that I would agree on the basis of the question that you would pose to me. Any Member of this House will always be well placed before an inquiry about the need for just financing. Who of this Parliament or the Government would oppose a just financing? Certainly, I suppose no one, and I'm the last one, Mr. Gallego. Let me tell you that many of your group's proposals in this chamber seem personally reasonable and necessary. Some of them do not seem so much to me, such as that proposal for maximum wages on which he asked me a few months ago and which we were left with some day to make a visit to Cuba to prove the competitiveness of the labor market in Cuba. Of his reasonable proposals, which are the majority, some of them have been incorporated into the 2022 premise, as you know: those relating to mental salvation, the right to housing or railway investment. There are no other ways in which we can have differences in terms, or how to implement them or on which are the most priority. I would also like to strengthen our health model more, allocate more resources to schools, modernise public administration or fight the poor child, which are all things that their group proposes. We would all like to strengthen our welfare even more. The only problem, as you know, Mr Gallego, is the money, the money that we need for the long term these policies. That is why I believe that the system we have today to deal with the needs of citizens and citizens is unfair. Not inadequate, not unbalanced, not poorly designed, not ineffective; not unjust. The financing model that Catalonia is, before anything else, unjust. Why is it unfair? And I think, in that, we'll also be there for you and I. The model is unfair as long as we can't solve our needs by relying on the resources we generate for ourselves. It cannot be that Catalonia is a country with sufficient capacity to enjoy an amply well-being state and that we cannot do so because these resources escape our control. Literally, they take them out of our hands. You asked me today in relation to what the president of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can expose to the press wheel that was celebrated on February 12. In that appearance, which I saw yesterday night in order to prepare these words, Mrs. Albiach devoted two thirds of her exhibition, eight of fourteen minutes, to enumerating the reasons for which the proposal of the financing model of the Minister of Hisenda, Mrs. Montero, seemed unacceptable to her. In the rest of the presentation he referred to the same thing that you exposed us today. With this, I think it's all said: the problem is not lack of ideas in Catalonia, the problem is lack of willingness in Madrid. Mr. Gallego, allow me to give you an objective description of the situation in which we find ourselves today. You're a government party in Madrid. You have decided to form part of a coalition to lead Spanish politics during this term. You have the ability today..., I know it's hard to say, but you have the ability today, more than any other party in Spain, and much more than most of the parties in the Catalan Parliament, to decide who should be the financing model of our country. But you, like the PSC, are unable to get the PSOE-We can make a fair proposal for Catalan financing. And then what do they do? Any reasonable person would expect him to recognize me and tell us not to get caught. I'd expect you to say that what you already know happens disarrayally, that when you talk to your party partners in Madrid about Catalonia's financing issue, you don't get caught up. Anyone would expect you to recognize what we all see, which is, Mr Gallego, his powerlessness; his powerlessness is ours – just like ours – at the time of defending Catalonia in Madrid, there is the government that there is. As you know, we were going to have the meeting of the bilateral committee. Allow me to explain to you an interiority of the preparations of the meeting. Miri, I asked to put on the order of the day three themes. Three; only three. I asked that we discuss the new financing of the Mossos d'Esquadra to cover the cost of the increase in effectiveness, after that photo – a photo without money – that Minister Marlaska came to Barcelona last November. Secondly, I asked that we put on the table the equipping of the retirement age of the Rural Agents of Catalonia with that of the Mossos d'Esquadra, just as the Rural Agents of the Civil Guard throughout the State have for many years. And I demanded that we close an agreement on the pending investment of the State in the years 2009-2013, by virtue of the third additional provision of the State, which is about 2,900_million euros. Do you see them with enough of these themes, Mr. Gallego? You know that in politics forms are very important. Well, the Government of Spain did not want to deal with these issues in the order of the day, and forced me to put them on the turn of precs and questions. They went to precs and questions, without compromise, naturally, on the part of the other gang. Frankly, Mr Gallego, I do not see any willingness of the Government of Spain to resolve seriously the issue of finance or any other important issues that we have on the table. We have the proof in the way in which they assessed the meeting of the sale of the Generality and the Government of the State: for the Spanish Government– of which, I am sure, I recall, you are part– the meeting closed with a historic agreement; for this councillor, in turn, the meeting was a further demonstration that the State has no intention of correcting the structural financial imbalance suffered by our country. Mr. Gallego, to get the management of the Montseny Observers, which had already been requested by President Montilla, or the transfer of a 15-kilometre highway, the State had had to think for six months. If we now ask for the principle of normality in the distribution of presuppositional investments or a hissing with fiscal autonomy in Catalonia and the complete development of our tax agency, as you propose, then perhaps in place of six months we will trigate six seconds. I'm done. What you ask me today is to make a rodeig; ask us to make our program of the commons and that we continue to go to Madrid and present it to the coalition of government to see if the coalition of government, of which you are a part, in the purchase. With all due respect, I see more practical than you directly ask the Government of Madrid than in one of these bilaterals formally present to the Government of Catalonia the financing model that you explained to us here today. I'm sure you know best that I will be the answer of your own party and your government, from which it forms part, if I ask them to do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.23.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.24.0	Well, I said in Martí and Pol that nothing is worth the enyor or the complex, nor the touch of dispensing evil. Maybe it's time, huh? That we put on this needle with the thread of a proposition I don't say. We have come here to explain the importance of a new funding model just because we understand that what is there is unfair. And we came to say that this new funding model just because Catalonia needs it and wants to lead the government with the power of consensus that it can get in this chamber if we put ourselves to work those forces that we commit ourselves to a finance model change. I have noticed that in Catalonia today, politically speaking, the seventy-two-and-a-half percent that say the questions that they consider that changing the funding model is a political exit to the conflict is also expressed in this parliamentary chamber. We are able to work on this translation of feeling citizenship and turn it into a political proposal with political force to negotiate before the Government of the State a proposal from Catalonia with broad consensus that allows us to overcome the injustice of a model that, as the Councillor says, we do not share. But at the time of political action, as the Councillor said, procedures are very important – very important, procedures. So important is the procedure of a bilateral commission, which you know, from the outset, that if it is not on the order of the scheduled day, agreed between the members of the bilateral commission, that issue is not addressed. That's why they ask questions. What's going on, the councillor says it as a complaint when he simply explains what is the normal procedure for the functioning of the collegiate organs, and in this case the bilateral commission. But it's that procedures are also very important in something the counselor said we can't accept. We do not want the Government of the State to decide on a new funding model; we want the Government of the State to negotiate and agree on a new funding model. Because we do not want governments that impose decisions, we want governments that negotiate and agree. And this is the phone element that the counselor seems to be that he didn't want to hear. Because we have come here to propose an agreement, an agreement to negotiate and to agree on a finance model change. We already know that the current model is unfair, we already know that the Government of the State will not give us from the outset what the Government of Catalonia is asking, but we also know that the Government of the State is obliged to negotiate, and if it is obliged to negotiate, it must build an agreement. And we will have more strength if this agreement or our proposal comes from the consensus, and we will have more strength not only if you see the consensus of Catalonia but also establish strategic alliances with other territories. And the Islands and the Valencia Country share the financing problem, consider that the financing model is also unfair, and also share a good part of the proposals of a model that guarantees the adequacy of resources to meet the needs of citizens and the skills we have, and at the same time also, obviously, maintain the level and the experience of fraternity that a financing model must have for the future. We can build the proposal, we can consent it to Catalonia, we can establish alliances with the State and, from this force, we can go to negotiate with the Government of the State a change, because what we want is to change; we don't want to stay installed where we are, because, in staying installed where we are, what happens, the Government says that it doesn't do things because financing is unjust but it doesn't want to change this unjust financing because if it changes this unjust financing, it won't have the excuse to say that it doesn't do things because financing is unjust. And the government knows that it has a government paralysis, and it's not for unjust financing, because it's not just that there are few resources just as resources apply. Because resources can be applied in many ways: either to satisfy the needs of the citizenry or, unfortunately, sometimes to mismanage resources, which are sometimes lost in bureaucratic lives or of poor procedural management that do not make it destined for the ends that they have. But that would be another topic, which we've already gone through in places nearby. Now what I can decide is whether or not we want to change an unfair financing model or whether we're going to continue to feel unfair until someone changes us, and whether we want to change this unfair model, whether we want to do it proactively leading it and whether we want to do it from the strength that would give us consent or not. And that's what we need to position ourselves on. Is there any left? So look, it's still installed in there, installed what you say in Martí and Pol, isn't it? In the ring, in the malenconia, but that's not how we move forward. Therefore, we insist that we want to build from the consensus a proposal for just new financing. We have proposals; I hope that other political groups also have proposals, and that with the proposals of some of us we can go to Madrid to bring about the Government of the State and to change the model of financing. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.25.0	And in the replica turn, has the word now the councilman Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.26.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Mr Gallego... Miri, Mr Gallego, if you want we can continue to insist on our respective positions, but it seems to me that there are three things that are very clear. The first is that the Government of Madrid, in any case..., is the Government of Madrid to which it corresponds to make a proposal for a new model of financing. The second is that his group is part of this government in Madrid. And the third is that this government in Madrid is not in a hurry to decentralize and is in a hurry to recentralize. On the other hand, I have to tell you that those three proposals that I made... naturally I didn't make them the same for the late – soc new in politics, but I try to learn quickly – and I proposed them after the last meeting, last August, and, at the end of the day, these and others wanted to put them on the order of the day. Miri, you, with a lot of pride, and I value it very much, have often made the flag of your municipalism. Today he is appearing in this chamber as the defender of a new funding model for Catalonia. His group today has a precious opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to two aspirations: municipalism and new financing. If nothing prevents it, the waste and contaminated soil bill for a circular economy will become law the next month. Then, this Parliament, this government and this country will lose once more the skills we had. Catalonia will lose control of the policy of the canons, which can represent for this year 2022 about 120_million euros, a quantity that has practically full to the municipality, as you know very well, Mr Gallego. You are in time..., who are part of the Government of Madrid, you are in time to prevent, today – you are still in time to prevent –, that this law will pass us the regulatory capacity on the waste canon. You... [[Greetings.]] You are still in time – you are still in time – to demonstrate your commitment to the municipalities of Catalonia and to our capacity to self-governance this Parliament. His proposal for funding for Catalonia is much better objectively than the proposal submitted by Minister Montero. I recognize them, on this we agree, much better. You've heard me say in this very chamber that I aspire to the independence of Catalonia, because I'm sure that you're the government that governs all Catalans in the best possible way. And I aspire to the full political and fiscal sovereignty of our country for this conviction. I trust fully in our abilities, all of us in this chamber, to make us deal with our problems and to decide for ourselves how to do it. Neither the President Sánchez nor the President, nor the President Pablo Casado, nor the President Ayuso, so iconic and so revered for some elites of this city, nor his brother. [[Rialles.]] Miri, I aspire to a very simple – very simple – thing; I aspire to this hemicle to share a finding, I aspire to share the recognition of the State's endemic disinterest and lack of understanding in order to correct the unjust situation that our country is suffering from, for which the financing model is not responsible in a good part. Mr. Pedro Sánchez, his governing partner in Madrid, did not say that independence was an old question, a question of the past century. And I was right. Indeed, the great global injustice that during the 20th century Western powers knew how to take and correct was the injustice of colonialism. Between the year 1950 and the present, we have passed from a hundred countries of full right to the United Nations to almost two hundred, almost twice as many states, at seventy years old. For our misfortune, however, Spain has not yet felt questioned about this current of justice and restitution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.27.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the financing exclusion]] [[300-00122/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the financial exclusion, which the Parliamentary Group of Junts presented for Catalonia. You have the word to make the presentation to Mr. Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.28.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members and Members, public that accompany us, well, last week the Councillor Giró announced to us a proposal of law, in fact, on a subject that is sensitive to our society; from weeks and months ago it was mentioned. In fact, the pandemic, all these long two years that we have suffered, so, these confinements, sometimes total, sometimes local, sometimes perimeter, have put on the table different differences that there is to our society, huh? For one thing, we saw that the technologies were very developed to make telematic applications, but we also saw that a good part of the company was not yet ready to serve this new technology. This has also happened at the level of the municipalities, small municipalities, so, like mine, when people with digital difficulties had to deal with the State Employment Service, with the National Institute of Social Security, with the processing of ERTs, ask for bank certificates, ask for bank statements, previous quotes... So, we have to do it as we can, huh? ; some gatherings, therefore, making available to the citizens own personal or through the points Ómnia, of the General Directorate of Civic Action, of the Department of Social Rights. So, trying to fix what was going on, huh? In fact, as we say, this has also put on the table the need to extend the country as optical fiber or as having the administration closest. That's why we're talking about financing exclusion, but we could also talk about social exclusion, because there are different cities in the country than for reasons of age, for reasons of training opportunities, for reasons of digital training, for reasons of financing training, for reasons of different skills that are excluded for accessing finance or banking services. But, for example, this also gives place to a geographic exclusion, huh? They are not the same cities, therefore, with thousands and thousands of inhabitants as the small towns of the inner comarcas or the comarcas of the Pyrenees. We come to a fish phenomenon that moves the fish, which, because everyone understands it, means the vicious circle: that you do not serve there because there are no people, there are no people because you do not serve there. Therefore, the financial services, in this sense, should also be part of the problem, part of the solution and therefore be an essential service to which all citizens should have equal access. We've suffered these past years reduction of banking offices, staff reduction, reduction of face care, reduction of caixers, despite the fact that we ask to go to the caixer, reduction of physical money and move to the digital money, and this excludes a part of the citizenry. So a part of the city wants to reduce its rights: it can't have an effect, it can't get extracts, as I said, it can't get moving consults, paying for scraps, paying for taxes, huh? , actions that many times are necessary for other services: social welfare, education, education for scholarship issues, bonuses that give the municipalities ask for procedures for banks to resume. Therefore, this is a subject, as I said before, which involves territorial imbalances, because, therefore, the people, the cities that do not have access to these banking services, with the reduction of caixers, reduction of offices, also have a reduction of opportunities to attract inhabitants, to retain professional talent, inhabitants or to develop new opportunities for business and, therefore, work. Servings are essential, huh? , health care, education, public transport, education transport, communications, optical fiber, social services, safety, drinking water, electricity, asphalt access, but also access to finance services. In fact, a sustainable country also means that we can live in small towns and in the Pyrenees. This is the best meaning of sustainability. In Catalonia 443 municipalities do not have a bank office or an automatic boxer. More than 250,000 people suffer from this risk of financial exclusion, which sometimes also coincides with geographic exclusion, because this accumulates in the areas, precisely, from the interior and the Pyrenees and the mountains. In Catalonia we lost 5,582 offices in the last fourteen years. To Osona there were twenty-six people without a box; to Tarragona there are 261 offices of the eight hundred that there were, or to Ripollès, my region, there are twelve people without a box. On the other hand, we've seen how the system finances, spent this millionaire rescue, huh? , which the President of the Court of Auditors passed – which for some reason serves the Court of Auditors, to put into evidence this – shuffled in 101,500_millions, I repeat, 101,500 the millions that the bank bailout has cost the Spanish State with public money and that now the banks do not return. Banks that, as we say, have reduced 5,560 offices in our country, Catalonia. But now we see the advance of benefits and they are overwhelming: 7.887_million euros of benefits is provided to Santander ; 5,200_millions of benefits to Bankia ; 4,388_millions of benefits to BBVA ; 393, to Sabadell ; 871, Liberbank, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Squirrels. These days we've also seen initiations, some popular ones. He has seven famous, sadly famous, Mr. San Juan to carry in front of the Congress more than 600,000 signatures with this campaign« Big Soc, but not stupid soc. We have seen the Barcelona Chamber of Deputies offering EUR 1 million per year to place caixers in the municipalities co-financed with the joint ventures; therefore, to place another public prize at the service of the financial services, which are private, with entities that earn thousands of million dollars a year, which also charge you commission and charge you a quarterly fee to hold your book, and now the Chamber of Deputies offers you, therefore, EUR 1 million of services. And we have also seen Councillor Giró's proposal, as we have said, with a law proposal for the guarantee of the service of automatic deposit in municipalities at risk of financing exclusion. Yesterday we also saw, so tow a little, therefore, the Minister of Economy and Vice-President of the Government who announced a rectification or update of the strategic protocol to strengthen the social and sustainable commitment of the bank and announced for a few weeks a bill of customer services, all to be correct. In fact, we are experiencing another situation: we are not a country with all the rights of the country; our citizenship asks us straight as if we were a state, but we are not yet a state. Therefore, we have a Catalan Institute of Finance with a public banking vocation, but that does not have the bank card, that does not give us the Bank of Spain, or the regulation of the banking system finance it cannot be exercised by the Government of Catalonia, according to the Bank of Spain. Therefore, we cannot have a proper regulation on a subject that interests citizens, that generates country balance and that concerns and affects, as we say, more than 250,000 citizens of Catalonia, who do not have the right to access the financial services, eh? , to arrange cash or to arrange simply a bank transaction or to obtain an extract to process a scholarship or a social aid, a fooder's aid. Therefore, in this sense, we again suffer another incongruity: the city deserves, we ask, demands its rights, which are logical, as if we were a state, when we are not yet a state. Counselor Giró, for one thing, how do you value this ad from the Deputy Minister yesterday? And, Counsellor Giró, how is this your proposal for a bill, which you have shared with some groups in Parliament today, to solve this problem that does affect citizenship and that can generate us first and second citizens or have a country before and a country after, which we do not want? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.29.0	The words of the Economics and Finance Councillor, Mr. Jaume Giró, are now available.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.30.0	Madam President, Mr Munell, ladies and gentlemen, the 15th of February we were going to present, in effect, a bill to guarantee people's access to basic financial services. It's a proposal that we'd try to get to the Congress of Deputies. It is now up to us to look for and open up every possible life, every possible alliance, and convince enough parliamentary groups because the proposal is converted into a law proposal and is approved, with the debate and with the contributions you need, and finally become a law. To explain it very quickly, the law would ensure that all the municipalities of Catalonia have, as at least, an automatic boxer. In this way, all the inhabitants of the country's towns would have at a reasonable distance an equipment to make the basic banking operation, such as now taking out money, making a transfer or consulting the movements of the account. Banks should be required to provide this service, so that the initiative would not naturally have an impact on public finances; no public euro is intended for this initiative. Then I'll go a little deeper into the content, but allow me to explain before I explain why we propose this law to present to the Congress of Deputies. The reason is simple: even though you seem to be lying, you, ladies and gentlemen, cannot pass a law that guarantees that big people can take their money out of their current bank account; even though you seem to be lying, you can't do it. Neither can you legislate to preserve the competitiveness of our territories preventing the disappearance of basic financial services; the State does not allow them. All we can do, therefore, is a proposal – there is always something we can do, as we have done on this occasion – and commend us to the good disposition of the legislators in Spain. We have a situation that can become a problem for many people; we have a situation that is viable, simple, quick to implement, that can work well, and we have to trust that we can convince our guardian, the Spanish State, that the initiative is worth it and that it is in all its domains. The year 2014 the European Union published a directive regulating the right of all citizens to access minimum financial services – the year 2014. In this way, the European Union recognized an obvious and common sense fact: that today it is impossible to have a normal life without accessing banking services. In this sense, the funded services work today as the basic sub-administrations. Our company is organized in such a way that it cannot live with dignity without access to running water, the internet, the light, the gas or a student account. It took the Spanish State three years and a half to transpose that directive and, finally, on November 17th, the basic payment account bill was passed. Mirin, the Spanish Vice-President, Minister Calviño, three months ago asked for proposals, the Spanish Government asked the banks for proposals to improve this problem. And before yesterday, after knowing our proposal – as I say to you: after knowing our proposal – Minister Calvin announced before yesterday an agreement to correct the banks because the offices extend the attendance schedule to large people and the employees of the entities do a training to improve the attendance to these customers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that this is not enough, because the problem is not in the schedule of the offices or in the training of the employees of these offices. The problem is precisely in the lack of offices, the problem is in the exodus of offices, in the banking desertion that is patenting the territory and in the difficulties of large people who see the people and small municipalities to take their money out of their account, make a transfer or consult their pension. And this, of course, does not fit the measures announced for the minister. The year 2008 was the moment of the largest extension of the banking network to Catalonia: there were 8,200 offices in the country. There have been 5,600, 60-per-cent, and now 8,200 of those left behind for 2,600. Banking offices have been shut down throughout the state; the territory of the whole state where they have been most closed is Catalonia, a sixty-night_per_cent. As you have just said, Mr Munell, some 250,000 Catalans do not have a bank office or a cashier in their municipality and almost half the municipalities of Catalonia, 443 of 947, have neither office nor cashier. These days are happily in the mouth of everyone in the municipality of Alcarrás. You've gone from seven offices two years ago to only five offices. And around Alcarra, the vast majority of people don't have an office. A total of eleven municipalities in Segria have neither office nor caixer. And as you know, the Segria is one of Lleida's reference districts, I'm not talking about the second one. The figures are worrying, but we're still in time to prevent this problem from going any further. And I assure them, I insist, that the measures announced to Spain will not solve the problem. We, as the government of Catalonia, cannot allow ourselves to leave the territory. The territory of our country has a diverse and powerful cultural element, and any country that respects itself takes care of its people and the country where they live. This law proposal aims to help preserve the competitiveness of rural areas, but we also need to fight directly against the risk of poverty and exclusion. It has long been known and shown that the exclusion will directly correlate with the poor. In developing-life countries, one of the measures that has been shown to work best to wait for progress and fight against the poor is the banking of society, that is, the fact that people can manage their economy through formal financial channels. It would be paradoxical – excuse me for insisting – that in countries in development lives there were being created banking networks to wait for progress and in countries developed as ours was being destroyed. It's an involvement that we can't afford with the country. The great people, the great people, our parents, our opinions learned to collect the pension for the book and they went home to refuse, they arranged their studios, and still trusting that they would always have a service next, a caixer or an office to mobilize what is theirs. They are people who have already made an important effort to learn how to use the automatic boxes and to use the tags. But now, ladies and gentlemen, we can't ask you now to learn how to run the bank online for the mobile or the computer. Three_of_each_four people– three_of_each_four people– older than seventy years do not know how to make the bank serve the mobile. I'm not saying, one of the three major banks in the state has publicly said so. We ask for the minimum to get the minimum. We are not asking for a revolutionary measure or a conservative measure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the state of education]] [[300-00121/1]] And let's move on from the agenda, the question to the government about the state of education, which the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group presented. And you have the word to make the presentation of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.32.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Counsellor Gonzalez-Cambray, today the question is at a time when it is not easy for you, in conscious soc. There have been hard weeks from the point of view of his credibility before the Catalan public opinion and before the educational community, but I regret to say to him, with all respect, that he has won his prize. I believe that when you talk about the great consensus that affects the educational community or that affects the world of education in Catalonia, you do not have to present that today, at this moment, in Catalonia, the greatest consensus that has been around education is the need for you to resign as an Education Advisor. The new consensus of education in Catalonia is precisely the need..., from the point of view of transparency, from the point of view of the retention of accounts, from the point of view of institutional neutrality and from the point of view more respect for citizenship, is precisely his resignation, Mr. Counsellor. And I say it from the most absolute respect and in no time without any writing. But I believe that what you have done with the management of the progress of the school calendar is a paradigmatic example of bad governance, of your lack of touch with the educational sectors, with the education sector, with the educational community in general, with the directions of the centres, with the faculty. This has been told to you precisely these weeks by the different education unions in our community. They've made their position very clear. Unbelievable, it is completely unheard that you are aware of the premise that you communicated to the President of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Aragonès, who communicated this advance of the school calendar, insists, without having any contact, without having any contact with the educational community, with the teachers, with the directors and logically generating a huge sense of unemployment on the part of the education sector, which is absolutely logical and normal, taking into account that we are in the month of February, already preparing for the coming course and it turns out that you are out of the night in the day, without any notice, with news that necessarily affects the way in which the centers are being run,22 in the 20th century. We, by definition, are not in favour of or against this decision to move the school calendar forward. I say to him that the substance of the question seems to me to be a substance, a substance, a matter which, if not, is a matter for the educational community. But you've always made it out of agatosis, without saying anything, without counting on the educational community. It has caused discomfort between important sectors of this community and also, for example, in sectors such as those of the concerta. I say to him once more, as I have said on other occasions, that in the end the concertation sector is a sector that always ends up paying for excesses and lack of contact with the reality that the Government of the Generality has in educational matters. How will the agreed schools pay for this new calendar, this new timetable during the month of September, for example, when you start the academic course on day 5 for children and primary students and on day 7 for high school, baccalaureate and FP? When you have to do this compact day again to one or two quarts of two, which you will have to do the school centers, will the concertee also have a financing facility, as you have ensured for public schools? I believe that you are afraid that you should have made very clear before you took decisions, before you took action, and, in turn, you made a unilateral decision without committing yourself to either God or the devil, and you made an authentic less than the education sector is. And from this point of view, I think it's reasonable, if not, what the unions are asking for, which is precisely his departure, his resignation from the council. There are other aspects that I think are important that it is appropriate to put forward a manifesto on how you are carrying out your..., your mandate to the head of the council and, among others, I believe that the way in which the issue of inclusive education is being focused, with the view, with the benevolence of the Greuges Synod or even with the impetus of the Greuges Synod, is if not more questionable. Its predisposition, its announced willingness to end in a very definite way, not in a very definitive way, but in a very definite way, with the schools of special education to us seems to us to be an authentic disarray. We need to make this very clear. The syndic of Greuges, following or much arranged with his thesis, has openly said that the objective is to end the special education schools. So, for our group, this is part of this lack of respect for the freedom of parents at the time of choosing the education they want for their children that characterizes this government in many aspects; also in another aspect such as that of the differentiated school, the school that differentiates by gender, that does not separate – as some like to say. But in any case, we believe that there is a real problem with freedom in the world of education in Catalonia, precisely because of this will to subdue to its manic vision of reality, completely imbued with a will of social engineering, which to our opinion is truly questionable. And I say, I insist, Counselor, all these things that are critical, from the most absolute respect. On the other hand, Mr Counselor, and allow me to tell you something else, logically I must also speak to you about your position on the linguistic question, and let me say that for this reason I spoke to you in the language, in the mother tongue, in my mother tongue; as Maragall would say, "the language which the rough land gave me, but, in my case, it is not that of Mr Joan Maragall, but the language which I knew from the very beginning of my home..., which is the Spanish language. Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, yesterday was International Mother Language Day. I do not know exactly what are, or do I know, what are the..., let's say, the reasonings you make – or so-called'reasons' – for having completely removed the term mother tongue, but I remind you that UNESCO recognizes the right of all the citizens of the world to be educated in their mother tongue and, logically, here assaults us with a doubt, a question that is why Catalan speaking Catalan citizens are the only citizens of the world that we do not have, within a democratic rule of law, the right to be educated also in our mother tongue. And in this regard, let me read to you a few words, perhaps familiar to you, of a member of your governing partner, a former member of your governing partner, Mr Trias Fargas, a Member of the Congress of Deputies in the first parliamentary term, after the advent of democracy that said: "In addition to a human right, it seems clear to me that language, the mother tongue, is an important pedagogical requirement. The first intellectual steps, the first attempts to think, the first contacts with the cultural environment are made by the child in his/her mother tongue and only through that mother tongue is he/she able to realize the cultural environment in which he/she moves. But, in addition, and I remain on the pedagogical issue, it seems to me that it is clear that the trauma that always involves the passage of the family to school increases extraordinarily when it is complicated by the passage from one language to another. This has frustrated different intellectual vocations and I think that is an aspect to be taken very seriously. I believe that the words of Trias Fargas should serve you, at least to answer this clear question. Mr Councillor, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, do you consider that the citizens of Catalonia who have Spanish as their mother tongue also have the right to educate our children in their mother tongue? And to specify more, if we also have the right to educate them – also – in our mother tongue, because we, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, what we defend is precisely that we can arbitrate a system of linguistic conjunction in Catalonia. We can arbitrate a system in which our children, Spanish-speaking or Catalan-speaking, are educated in both languages. Precisely to give rise to truly respectful citizens with the plurality of the community in which they live, both Spanish-speaking and Catalan-speaking. I tell you, and I think it is also an interesting exercise to preach with the example, I tell you that, for example, this intervention because I have done it in sixty_per_cent in Catalan and forty_per_cent in Spanish. I do not, of course, ask you, Counselor, God forbid, to do what I do, but I do ask you to respect the right of the citizens of Catalonia to educate their children also in their mother tongue when this is the Spanish language. Because, I insist, it is a right that UNESCO recognizes and it is a fundamental right of Spanish citizens that we have, of course, because of the fact that it is, and that it also recognizes, would guarantee, in any case, that plurality, respect for that plurality that characterizes Catalan society. The truth is that we do not understand why you remain committed to depreciating that right, and I would like to say this to you sincerely, with the same respect that I have said to you all above, that I would love for you to justify why you systematically refuse to allow Catalan speaking citizens to educate our children also in our mother tongue. I would like you to answer this simple question and to comment of course on all of the above, but that question for me would be decisive if you answered it. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.33.0	To answer, the word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.34.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Martin Blanco, I'll give you an answer to everything you've been planning for your intervention. You mentioned the subject of how the subject of the advancement of the school year ended. I'll explain. I'll explain. So, this is an advice that from the beginning what we've done is talk to everyone always and make decisions with as much information as possible. The first thing I did when I went in as an education counselor is ask; ask and listen. We asked all the country's direct teams, 5,470 direct teams, and 120,000 masters. This questioner asked them about how from the Department of Education, how, as a counselor, I could take the best decisions to be as useful as possible, to accompany them in this educational transformation and with this fairness with which we want to continue advancing day after day in the Catalan education system. Now we are making a presentation of resumes, some of us educated resumes with changes of resumes that are determined by LOMLOE. LOMLOE tells us to change the curricula, with a royal decree, "in view of the coming course, it gives us one part of the curriculum and the other part we are doing it with a participatory process with the whole educational community. I have streamed with all directions of all educational centers, I meet continuously with educational centers, families, students. I also find a student to see who his father is and his point of view. To the findings I make with the direct teams, to the innkeeper visited a school or an institute. And then I would like to point out that, as time is very limited, I wanted to listen to as many direct teams as possible and I also wanted to know as many direct teams as possible. And for this reason, what I do every time I go to territories is I gather with all the directions of that city, I did it to Lleida, I did it to Badalona, I did it to Vilanova, I did it to Tortosa, I did it to other cities – from children's to children's to post-compulsory – to listen to us and, with all the information, to make the best decisions. And the progress of the calendar is at the disposal of all the information. The same School Council of Catalonia the last few years has made four reports, four, not one or two, four reports. And these four reports from the School Board of Catalonia tell us that summer vacations are too long, tell us that we have to hide these holidays in front of the students. It's a decision that we take into account the student. And that's what we do. And making decisions and communicating them to the citizenry is entirely compatible with the debate. And that's what I did yesterday in an extraordinary plenary of the School Council of Catalonia. Discuss. Once decided what, with all the information and with a debate that has already taken place in the last few years, what we are doing now, together with the whole educational community, to finish adjusting the way we deploy. A little bit like when we opened the coven's schools. We decided to open the covid's schools. We didn't agree, we didn't negotiate, we said, like the government: "Schools must be open because children are better off in school. And once the decision was taken, we talked to everyone and tried to improve all the proposals so that these open schools could be made possible. I, forgive, yesterday the School Council of Catalonia, unanimously – unanimously. No one – no one – said that the measure was not kind and was not a good measure for the alumni. For the student, because it starts a week before and decreases the time of disconnection of the student and, above all, above all – and this for the Republicans is very important – for the vulnerable student. Because vulnerable students do not have the same opportunities to do the same activities, to pay for the same activities. Because the vulnerable student, if we open the school a week before, he'll have a feeding scholarship. Because the most vulnerable student is at school. And, therefore, it's a measure of fairness for the student. And it's a measure that guarantees... it's a measure, u, that doesn't alter workers' labor rights. Very important, it does not alter workers' labor rights. Masters follow the same number of class hours. They will take the course coming in the same number of class hours as this course and go on the same days at school. It does not alter workers' working rights. And it's also very important for us: it's a measure that you've referred to and profited from to answer it – guarantee 100 per cent family reconciliation, because the student, the children, the children and the children will be at school at the same time..., with 100 per cent gratuity, at the same time in September as the one they tend to spend on October, November and the rest of the school year. Therefore, free of charge for our children and children throughout the month of September with the activities they carry, both in public school and, obviously, in concerted school. And, therefore, before a decision is made that everyone agrees with what and what we have time for – because we're on a fever and that's what we're going to deploy in September – to agree with the educational community as with all the dialogue and all the consensus that we have, what we do is to deploy this advance towards the next course. Some other fears I was commenting on. We won't end up with special education schools. I don't know if we had the chance to... I'd say yes, I'd say I'd already moved them: there's no intention of finishing special education schools, I'd just miss it. Here each fills a need and each answer with a personalized education. And, therefore, we believe in inclusive school, and as long as we do. We have to keep moving. We have a lot of room for improvement in inclusive school and, at the same time, we also believe in special education school. It's still compatible. You refer to freedom of choice. Listen to me, obviously, there is freedom of expression..., there is freedom of expression – excuse – no, there is freedom of choice. Excuse me. There is clearly freedom of choice. Now, what I'm saying is, freedom of choice, but the choices that separate children and children from classrooms cannot be financed with public money. And so, if anyone wants some kind of education... then it's a kind of unfunded school with public money. What we can't afford is to finance public money for sex-secretive choices. And that's why, with this renewal that we're doing for the coming class, what we're doing is not renewing secondary schools that secrete and separate children and children in classrooms. Now they've told us they'll make it happen, now they've told us not to separate children and children from the classrooms. Listen, today, they're not in concert, they have to prove it to us. They have to prove it to us. And they have to prove to us that we have to have proof. We must have proof of how to communicate it to families, how to adapt their project of center education, how to communicate it to the cloisters, how to adapt the different spaces to make this co-education possible and also how to communicate it and agree through their school councils. It's what I gave him before, in this government, we make decisions, we make things happen, we complete what we give and we don't renew these concerts. He also referred to the linguistic issue. You see, here I have already told you on many occasions that I can repeat to you again: you, the people of Ciutadans, are inventing a linguistic problem in the Catalan schools that do not exist. We are forty years old with a model of Catalan school that is a model that guarantees equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion. There was no conflict. Actually, there is no conflict, but there was no sound for what it does to language learning in our classrooms until you arrived. We're the ones who guarantee... And that's what the CEO said later: the seventy-six per cent agree with this model of Catalan school. You said: « UNESCO. The UNESCO, which establishes, on the World Day of Mother Language..., establishes precisely this day to make visible and protect those minority languages. That I understand that in Catalonia the castle, obviously, would not be a minority language, and, therefore, I don't know how, somehow, they make this correlation of ideas. And what we guarantee, in his question, is that he gives, in our own, what we guarantee as the Department of Education, and we will continue to guarantee, is that all the children, all the children and all the children, what they have is the right to learn, what they have is the right to educate them as best as possible, to make the best decisions at the length of their lives. And, therefore, what we guarantee is that when they finish a quarter of ESO they have sunny knowledge in both Catalan and Spanish languages, as in other languages. And here I recognize that we must take a step forward in the learning of English. And that's what happens in Catalonia: that all the students finish four-quarter of ESOs knowing Catalan, knowing castle and learning other languages. I don't know, I don't know if you know him, in any case, now you can tell me; you know some child, some young person who has finished a quarter of ESO and doesn't know how to speak castle? And you don't know how to write in the castle? It does not pass, neither in castle nor in català. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.35.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.36.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councilman, I cannot say that your answers have been satisfactory in any way, but it is true that I must say to you that it draws attention to what has been the least answered in precisely what has to do with the language. He's told me a couple of things that I think are at least curious. You tell me that you cannot preach from the Spanish language the idea that it is a minority language in Catalonia, of the Spanish language, and it is true, because the majority language in the families and citizens of Catalonia is Spanish, and indeed it is not a minority language, but it is precisely what we are talking about that is linguistic rights, the right to be educated in the mother tongue. It is a right that UNESCO recognizes, recognizes it for all the mother tongues, or it will now turn out that the only mother tongue in the world that does not have that right recognized by UNESCO, or the only speakers of a specific mother tongue that we have not recognized that right are the citizens of Catalonia who have the Spanish as their mother tongue. Listen, you will understand that it is an interpretation at least torturing of that UNESCO resolution. Therefore, I tell you, in fact, the Spanish language is not minority in Catalonia, on the contrary, it is majority, and more reason for the Spanish to have a_substantial weight, an_important weight in education in Catalonia. Moreover, not creating false dichotomies, a greater presence of Spanish is not to the detriment of the Catalan language. I have for me that even goes for the benefit of linguistic coexistence and that could even result in benefits for the use of the Catalan language. The truth is that I have always drawn much attention to that argument of "if you know any children who do not express themselves well in Spanish at the end of school in Catalonia". Look, the case is very plural. It is true that I will keep myself very much, of course, from giving any name of any child in this chamber, but what is true is that common sense tells us that when you spend all your education, throughout your life, educating yourself in a system of evil called "linguistic immersion, in a monolingual system in Catalan, you will hardly have a level comparable or comparable to that with which they have other autonomous communities of the rest of Spain". And I am already moving ahead with your possible answers on this, because there is not a single study, there is not a single report, there is not a single examination that is common to all Spanish citizens who value the level of Spanish that we have the citizens of Catalonia and those of the rest of Spain. Therefore, I really do make you mangaes and capirotes to avoid answering such an essential question, so basic, that many citizens of Catalonia ask themselves: why the hell do the citizens of Catalonia speaking Spanish have no right to be educated in their mother tongue? And you have still not answered that question. It is as simple as that: education is also in your mother tongue; that is, teaching, vehicle subjects, non-linguistic subjects in Spanish as a vehicle language. It is as easy as that, to alternate Catalan and Spanish as the vehicle languages of the educational system. But of course, it is that you, I insist, are absolutely focused on a project to change the linguistic uses of the citizens of Catalonia, to change the linguistic composition of Catalan society until you get a primacy of Catalan in relation to the Spanish language. And that's no more or less than social engineering, counselor. The truth is that it would be very interesting that this debate, this national pact for the language you are proposing, to which I regret to say that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia seems to add with some enthusiasm, I say to you, Mr Councillor, that it would be very interesting that this debate should be more open, but that it should not start from false, tremandist and apocalyptic premises, such as that Catalan is in danger of extinction, such as that a greater presence of Castilian would be harmful to Catalan, such as that doing a more Spanish subject endangers the foundations of the educational system of Catalonia. It is that you are apocalyptic! They are deeply catastrophic, and that, I insist, is what nationalist movements usually do to frighten the population and to have the one ultimately subjugated under parameters that are truly inconceivable. It does not explain, in good logic, that vision so catastrophic, so fatalistic of the situation of Catalan in Catalonia. You today presented, precisely, the first report of the so-called national pact for language, in which of course you are going to draw a catastrophic situation. I have already heard President Aragonès say what the conclusions of that first report are, and I am warning you, Mr Councillor, and I am also offering him as a discussion tool, that we from Citizens are going to put forward a report, call him if you want « counter-report, on the reality of the languages in Catalonia, both Catalan and Spanish. And I'm sure that our report, which will probably be more equitable and more plural... your conclusions will be very different from yours. Ladies and gentlemen of the separatist parties, accept the linguistic plurality of Catalonia and accept that Spanish, Spanish, is as much a Catalan language as Catalan itself. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.37.0	And also in the turn of the line, the education counselor returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.38.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Martin Blanco, the truth is, I'd worry a little if my answers were satisfactory for you, and more considering your trajectory as a political party and the role you played in the use..., as you try to boost a model of social cohesion, equity and equality of opportunity, and, therefore, I would worry if my answers were satisfactory. You repeat this, however, for much that you repeat it, you will not end up feeling true; for much that you repeat something will not end up feeling true. Lies are not converted into truth by much that is repeated. There is no linguistic conflict in Catalan schools. In any case, what we are doing is identifying what is happening at the educational centres, as we can... Now we have a very important challenge for the education system, which is continuing to transform us into how we learn, not just what we learn but how we learn; that these learnings, the linguistics and all the others, are truly meaningful, are truly competitive and are really useful for our infants. You can't have the same school now that we had 20 years ago, 30 years or 15 years ago, you can't have it. Our infants require, they need a different education, they need to learn things in a way that..., not just content, that and so much so, too, but above all these contents through knowing how to do them, knowing how to apply them, knowing how to contextualize them and knowing how to work them as a team. And, therefore, we recognize the situations. As the Education Advisor and as the Government saw that we do: the situation is this, and from here we see how we act. And precisely the situation that he does to the català is... – and I recognized it before the feeling, at the beginning – before some first data showing us a davalada of the use of the català to the educational centers, which we do is to deploy a plate of impulses from the català to the educational centers. And, therefore, we are now in this deployment of the català pulse plan to the educational centers. You said: "Reports will come. Well, it's nice to have reports, but they're real, huh? Because we are accustomed to some reports that have come to us later through him, that what they do is a manipulation and an absolute misrepresentation of what they are actually asking, and then interpret the answers in their own way. So, welcome the reports, and they're real. What I'd say is... And, if I may, I'll end up talking about the situation we're in. Tomorrow we take a step forward: after two very difficult years, after two years of coveting our educational centers, after two years each time it is just to give thanks to the educational community, to our teachers, to the families, to the students and to the accompanying also, and so much professional of the health services of the Health Department and the Department of Education, we have kept the schools open, the schools secure for two years with children in school, which is where they are best. School has to be done from school, and with covid still more. And, therefore, before these two difficult years, tomorrow we eliminate the quarantines; we go back to normality. As we have always said to the Department of Education: we have power..., following the health recommendations, our wish is to return to normality as soon as possible, and therefore it seems to be that we are going this way. And these two years must coincide with a new stage in the Catalan education system where we are still able to make decisions. Making decisions and communicating them is fully compatible with the debate. And, therefore, take decisions with all the information possible, and, from here on, transform an educational system, with fairness, with equal opportunity. And from this transformation, in the face of the very course we will have these new curricula that are taking part, with the whole educational community; we will have a start of a path to reduce the rates to the schools of this country; we will have schooling, for families, free of charge to the child 2; we will have a new bet, a bet to rethink the whole model of vocational training; a new bet to give the tools, all the better tools, to our teachers so that they can do their job as best as possible in the classroom, and this basically passes to accompany them, passes to adapt the training, passes to adapt everything they require so that, at the emotional level, they can also accompany their student. And, therefore, to us who is in charge, and who will continue to occupy us day after day, is to be useful at our educational centers, at the expense of our teachers and at the service of our student. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-22-2501.39.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The next item on the agenda, the 14th item on the agenda, I have already commented on the beginning that had been adjourned until the next plenary session at the request of the Government and the interpelling group. Now, before suspending the session until tomorrow at nine, I would just like to mention the latest information coming from Roses' forest fire. As the Bombers have told us, so has the President of the Board of Directors of the Cape Creus Natural Park, it would seem that the fire is already stabilized. And, therefore, convey my thanks, and that is also that of the whole chamber, of course, to all the effects – and volunteers, naturally – that are still fighting against the flames. Extremizing the precautions in the very state of our forests is very important and, therefore, to follow scrupulously all the restrictions and measures that lead to avoid fires like what has already been stabilized. We suspend the session until tomorrow at nine, and we make the minute of silence at the making of the palau. Thank you very much.
