ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Statement by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokesmen in Defense of Western Sahara]] [[401-00016/13]] And before we begin we will read the Declaration that the Assembly of Speakers of the Parliament of Catalonia adopted April 20 in defense of Western Sahara. And he says this: "In Western Sahara, territories that are about to decolonize, the conflict is still alive after fifty years, despite the multiple resolutions of international bodies and judicial judgements of international courts that recognize it by the right to hold a self-determination referendum. The Catalonian Parliament considers that the decision of the President of the Spanish Government to give support to the autonomous plan of Morocco over Western Sahara is a diplomatic move and a unilateral move with the consent of the resolutions of the United Nations. This decision could lead to an escalation in the renewed war in November 2020, which broke the fire declared in 1991. The Parliament of Catalonia declares that a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution is essential, in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations, in the framework of the principles and proposals of the Charter of the United Nations, and therefore calls for the responsibility of all parties in seeking a solution with a multilateral and constructive approach that respects a basic principle such as the right to free self-determination of the Sahrawi people. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia reiterates the defense of the celebration of a referendum of self-determination of the Sahrawi people, as called for by the United Nations in various resolutions, as in the best democratic way for the peaceful resolution of the conflict over the status of Western Sahara. Palau del Parlament, April 20, 2022. Signed by Mònica Sales de la Cruz, joint spokesman for Catalonia ; Marta Vilalta i Torres, republican left holder ; Eulàlia Reguant i Cura, popular unit candidate holder, and David Cid Colomer, common spokesman We can. [[Greetings.]] And after this reading of the statement of the Board of Spokesmen, I communicate to you an alteration in the order of the day. The People's Union candidature has requested, once the rest of the parliamentary groups have been informed, that points 21 and 22 of the agenda remain substantial in the reverse order to which the agenda provides. As all groups have demonstrated their compliance with this change, if there is no objection, the motion corresponding to point 22 will be substantiated just before the motion corresponding to point 21. [[Question to the Government on measures to minimize the consequences of the economic and social crises suffered by Catalans]] [[300-00153/13]] And let us now turn to the fourteenth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on measures to minimize the consequences of the economic and social crises suffered by Catalans, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. And you have the word, to make the presentation, Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.2.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. From the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia today we present an inquiry to the Government regarding the social and economic state of our region, with three main objectives: first, to establish a certain diagnosis; second, to purify causes and responsibilities; and third, to offer solutions to the government's inaction. The Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia feels obliged to make this question in the face of this inaction of the Government and the lack of opposition from other groups. And we see ourselves in this responsibility to assume this leadership that we are going to shape here. There are more and more Catalans with many difficulties, because it is increasingly difficult to reach the end of the month and to be able to live with dignity. It's not alarmism, it's a reality. And that forces us to face this reality in a sensible, rational and urgent way. Because, if not, if we do not take action now, in the medium and long term, the consequences can be tremendous. Turning to the subject, we are going first to the diagnosis and we are going to establish objective data on social and economic issues. The social data are as follows: social exclusion reaches twenty-nine_per_cent of the Catalan population, six points more than the Spanish average. Energy poverty continues to destroy the quality of life of thousands of Catalans and you already know that many people, older and not older, this winter have not put the heating for fear of the gas receipt, and many people see with panic every time they charge in their account the receipt of light. The waiting lists for social services and dependency remain unimproved. Social housing barely accounts for two per cent, when we know that in Europe the average is 9.3 per cent and there are 200,000 families who are waiting for a housing solution, because they have difficulty acquiring housing or being able to maintain it. Four out of ten households spend more than forty_per_cent of what they enter housing, when we all know that financial institutions always set a maximum of thirty_per_cent in order to be able to absorb that expenditure on housing. For four_of_each_ten families are in the forty_per_cent of resources allocated to housing. Families with children are still abandoned. There is increasingly less birth and less support from the administrations. Economic data. The situation is also unsustainable. Debt: unlike yesterday's President of the Government, Mr Aragonès, we are Spain's most indebted region in absolute terms and also in per capita income. Unemployment: Youth unemployment is twice that of the European Union. And we can't get used to having ten per cent unemployment in our region; that's inconsumable and causes a lot of stress that we have to assume among all of us. GDP : Catalonia has lost 4.6% of GDP because of the separatist process. And all this is not because yes, behind all this objective data there are some causes, and here we are going to degenerate them. There are several reasons. First, over-dimension of public administration and over-politicians. Look, there are too many politicians, too many administrations and too many privileges. In Catalonia we have the Generalitat, the deputies, the metropolitan areas, the county councils and almost a thousand municipalities. In Spain as a whole, we have seventeen mini-states in the form of autonomous communities that generate regulatory inequality and fiscal inequality. Industrial policy – we have commented more than once –: the industrial policies of successive governments have caused companies to be relocated, we are marginalizing our workers, our entrepreneurs, who produce under unequal conditions, with labour, tax and environmental standards that we like, but we do not demand the same from others who manufacture outside, but sell in our country. With this, less industry is less work and also less income in the form of taxes for administrations. Tax hell. You don't know how to tell them, but it's real. In Catalonia there is a fiscal hell. We have an IRPF that over-punishes our payroll, inheritance tax, donation tax, property tax and seventeen own taxes. Another cause is ideological political waste. I no longer say chiringuitos because it bothers them too much, but what can we expect from a government that spends 200_million_of_euro on councils of feminism and external action without competences, or 240_million in a corporation that is at the service of power, when this money could be destined to meet the material needs of Catalans, or to lower the IRPF of workers? And another cause that we have to lie about is separatism, which is sinking not only our coexistence, but also our economy. Look, in VOX we have done our homework and we have calculated that, at least, as far as waste is concerned, we could save those 1,500_million that we raised in the budget debate. For example, with this savings of 1,500_million we could allocate the money in other circumstances, apart from being able to lower taxes. For example, 30_million primary care visits could be paid for – 30_million. We could build 13,158 social housing units with a hundred_per_cent of public ownership. We could feed for seventeen months all children at risk of poverty by paying for the cost of the dining room, or we could, as I have said, lower the IRPF, especially of the workers. Gentlemen of the Government, not only do they waste our money, but they mismanage it. A few days ago we knew through the Unit Observatory that Catalonia is among the two worst regions in Spain in terms of management and quality of dependency services. The last report on the development of social services, the DEC index, places Catalonia at the tail of the ranking, far surpassed by other regions with similar GDP. In conclusion, in Spain, in Catalonia, a new model of economic and social policy is needed. And now there is an urgent need to deal, in the face of rising prices of light, gasoline, oil, fruit and food, with basic elements to be able to survive. It is the urgent need for Catalans to arrive at the end of the month. And that goes by reducing public spending and then being able to lower taxes on Catalans so that they have more money so that they can survive and support their families. In the face of their discussions of room, Parliament, feminism, climate agendas, separatism and uncontrolled immigration, we need an economic and social policy focused on Catalans and not on the privilege of politicians. Finally, we have portrayed a certain diagnosis, with objective data; we have determined the causes, which I believe are not questionable, and from VOX we are going to propose solutions. We will offer solutions to the government's inoperativeness and the absence of any other opposition other than VOX's. They will be raised at the next plenary session. And I encourage you, Mr. Counsellor, to support them, because if you support them you will not be supporting VOX, you will be supporting the Catalans, the Spanish as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.3.0	Then, has the word Jaume Giró, Conseller d'Economia i Hisenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.4.0	Madam President, thank you very much. Members, Members... Mr Garriga, you are asking me today about measures to minimize the consequences of the economic and social crisis suffered by Catalans. A few days ago, as you might recall, I had occasion to answer this very question. And yesterday, in this Parliament, we discussed sufficiently the urgent measures in the area of taxation and financing that we have put in the way of the government to deal with the effects of the war in Ukraine; measures that we have put in the way of a decree that was validated yesterday – certainly, with the only votes against VOX and Citizens. On the other hand, the proposal you just made is not new. One year ago he presented one of his pretenders, accompanied by a subsequent young woman, and both of them have already been answered on time in this chamber. Therefore, I am sure that you will understand that you are taking advantage of your inquiry today to make a reflection related to what you ask, but of a more general character, about the role of VOX to Catalan politics. As much as yesterday in the Chamber, as last week on a press conference, you, Mr. Garriga, said something that any neutral observer could describe as unfortunate. He said when he was asked for his opinion on the espionage they have suffered, as in the least – which has been demonstrated until now – sixty-five Catalans. An episode that will pass to history as one of the saddest, most embarrassing and lowest moments in those that have fallen every time the worst Spanish democracy. The Washington Post newspaper dedicated its editorial on April 22nd to this case. And I will read only one sentence: "When democracies violate civil liberties in a manner as flagrant as it seems to have passed to Catalonia, what they deserve is to be condemned. This is the position of the Washington Post. So, well, who's the value of VOX respect this case? I will literally repeat what you said so much yesterday, from this Faristol, as on the 20th. I quote literally: "What worries me is the espionage that is being carried out in Catalonia for the simple fact of speaking in Spanish in the courtyard of schools. You responded to a flagrant violation of the phonenal rights of people just to think in a certain way, saying that Catalonia is spying on children. He said this, imperterite, "Spying children. Even though it may seem the opposite, these interventions that I have done now have a lot to do with today's inquiry – they have a lot to do with it – because they show us the way you have to hear politics. Today he's back to prove it. For you to do politics is to do magic. All that you've just told us is a demagogic exercise, a demagogic demagogicness absolute to the truth. I remember where we are: we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, and the only ones who owe us today, all of us here, are not voters from other parts of the Spanish State or Spanish communication media, they owe us to the citizen of Catalonia, Mr. Garriga. And being a little curated with the truth is a lack of respect for all the people who trust this institution. Therefore, I do not expect you to explain it with technical arguments for what reason the proposals you make cannot be implemented. I hope you will understand that it is difficult for me to discuss economics and taxation with a party the program of which, in the elections of the 14th of February, is on a page. This [[the councillor of Economy and History shows a full to the chamber]] Mr. Garriga, it's the program VOX has for all of Catalonia, for the Citizens of Catalonia. Miri, a full and only for a face – a full and for a face. That's all you're proposing. [[Greetings.]] All your proposals for this town are a full one-sided one. I hope you understand that I find it difficult to discuss with the representative of a party that in point 7 of this program says that if they win back the health skills to the Spanish State. And in the next point, point 8, you say that your priority of government will be to protect the salvation of the citizens of Catalonia. Mr. Garriga, why don't you tell him that if he does one thing, he won't be able to do the other? How can we discuss economics or taxation if all that his programme proposes to us is literally to protect the money of the Catalans from the ideological offensive of separatism and to protect the Catalans from the separatist fiscal exile? For all this it must be understood that I am very expensive to discuss with you about the economy; about the economy, about taxation or what it is. I'm sure, Mr. Garriga, that, in reality, you don't expect it either. He does not go here to propose measures nor does he go here to make politics; he goes to make propaganda, because VOX, like all populisms, only has a way of making a campaign, which is to constantly make demagogic based on falsehoods or, in the best of cases, on inaccuracies. We just saw it now in his exhibition. Look, all historians – all – agree that modern democratic institutions and the values that allow justice, freedom and the rule of law, as they stand today, appeared with the Illustration in the 18th century. Historians – and all of them – agree that respect for truth is the cornerstone of people's coexistence. This coexistence that so much concerns you... the cornerstone is respect for the truth, because from it they depend on their trust. There is no society in the world that can move forward without trust. And there's no trust without truth. And, finally, in the third place, the vast majority of historians, Mr. Garriga, also agree on a third thing, which, unfortunately, this current of progress and emancipation that was the Illustration was put to rest in the Pyrenees. His intervention in them sadly reminds us that historians are right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.5.0	In the turn of the line, has the word now the deputy Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. Madam President... we have tried to establish a certain diagnosis, with objective data, and I understand that it bothers you; it bothers you, and that is why you have used the Catalan classic of escaping from the studio. You have raised the debate, you have started to criticize our political formation, you have spoken of historians, but you have not spoken of the real problems of Catalans, which they find difficult to reach at the end of the month, which is increasing the receipt of light and you are wasting your money every day with your taxes. That's the problem. [[Greetings.]] And you ran away from studying. And we will continue with ours, providing solutions; providing solutions, which we will explain to you in the next motion. And you, if you don't approve them, will be portrayed, because they are real and super-necessary for all Catalans, for all Catalans. You say you have presented some measures for the crisis in Ukraine. Look, don't use... that doesn't hang up. The crisis comes from before. It comes for separatism, it comes for wasting Catalan money, for generating deficits, for generating debt and for not worrying about real problems. And, above all, what I said to him: waste the money of Catalans. Third: the program. Our program... I will make a distinction: one thing is the summary, which is what you have exposed, and the other is the program. A summary is an abstraction from a larger text, but if you want, I'll send it to you. The most depressing of everything, your intervention and your approaches, is that you deny the greatest, deny the crisis that Catalans are going through. How do you tell an older lady who does not dare to turn on the light of the corridor, who spends 33_million of her money, of all Catalans, on institutional advertising, on watering related media so that they do not criticize her? How do you explain this to this elder lady? They're not ashamed, it's impressive. And finally, well, to put to you that you have fifteen days to reflect, because we will bring to Parliament some super-concrete measures that are consumable. And what I've told you before in the interpellation, at first... don't worry, they won't give us reason, it'll do the Catalans good. You can stay with us, no one knows you're applying them in a month's time, and don't say it's because of the influence of our proposals. But do so, because it is an urgent need to tackle this crisis that is suffering all Catalans at social and economic level. And finally, I reaffirm, VOX is reaffirmed that few have spied on them – few have spied on them. [[Some applause.]] And, of course, to those who want to break our coexistence and break it, to those who want to betray our history, and to those who harm our jobs, our economy and our well-being, which is separatism... There is one option, which is to illegalize separatist formations. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.7.0	Then there is the words of the Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.8.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Garriga, I'm glad my first intervention excited you enough because you're showing as you think. They've been spying on us a little, and it looks great to you. [[some applause]] - No, no, no, That's fine – that's fine – Mr. Garriga. Let's all say what we think and it's a first step. Look, listen, this case you made reference to, which is not part of the inquiry, is said to be Catalanate. I think it's an expression with which we all understand each other, but it has a small flaw, because it refers to Watergate, as you know very well. The Watergate, year 72, when there were still here – you certainly have – General Franco..., year 72, the Watergate began with the arrest of four people. A newspaper started publishing it, and the whole Western press followed it, and it all ended... you know how it ended? Forty-eight detainees and a president of the United States who had to resign. Therefore, this is for me the bright part of the Watergate: that all the institutions of the State, all the institutions of the right, were put to work because they never passed there more. There was a dark part: the part of espionage in the National Committee of the Democratic Party. That dark side was replaced by a positive, optimistic, bright part of any Western free society, which is that justice pursued that case, there were convictions and there were resignations. Do you know what's going to happen here? I fear very much – I fear very much – that in this case we will only be left with two dark parts: the illegal espionage of citizens who are part of a national minority, only to think in a certain way, and the justice and the majority of media who will look at another song. That's what's going to happen and how it's going to work out here. And I'm so wrong about that. There won't be a bright part, the two will be dark parts. And, for that, Catalange..., unfortunately, the name does not respond to everything it wants to inspire, in the Watergate. Before I told him that I had read his program, it's the program you have public and I assure him that what you have posted to the web and what everyone knows, is a full page. I've also read me other VOX documents, and it's a show of respect. I think it's a show of respect to read the papers of the interlocutors. I read the program of the hundred measures of VOX for Spain, the program that they made for the autonomics of the year 19 and the agenda Spain. Everyone – everyone – repeats the same and, therefore, I already tell him that I don't think it's worth answering with technical arguments. But let me just give you a quick brush on one of your proposals. You – today you said it again – want to eliminate TV3, even though the favourite Catalan television is wide. They're the same, they want to eliminate it. TV3 started this month of April with a mid-screen share of the fifteen percent and Spanish Television of 6.7 – fifteen percent, 6.7. They also want to eliminate the Sindic de Greuges, because they say the Ombudsman has already delegated to Catalonia. Miri, Mr. Garriga, the syndic of Greuges processed 18,500 complaints this past year. Do you know how many complaints the Ombudsman dealt with? Do you know how many? Two thousand-cents. Mustn't the Catalans trust some more than some? I don't see the clock, President. [[Pause.]] I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.9.0	Don't you see?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.10.0	Now. Right now. Now he's back to show up. Thank you, President. You also ask that we close the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency. I guess you're convinced that with the CNI the Catalans we're already protected, huh? [[Rialles.]] That's why we want to delete the Cybersecurity Agency. Look, you make the contradiction an art and ask to eliminate all taxes and, at the same time, ask that we increase the assumption in sanitation, public safety, social housing and social care. As I said fifteen days ago – and with this end – you and I have one thing in common, Mr. Garriga, we would like to end our autonomy and at the same time claim measures that are competitions of a state will rise. And that's why you're supposed to be independent. Therefore, Mr. Garriga, watch your furniture. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.11.0	Let's move on to the seventh item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the economic impact of the war, which the Junts Parliamentary Group presented for Catalonia. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the economic impact of the war]] [[302-00134/13]] And you have the word to expose it to Congressman Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.12.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning to everyone. I would like to extend a special greeting to the members of the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce Executive Committee and, in particular, to its president. This reason that we present today was about the fallen benefits of the cell for the six companies of the Spanish energy oligopoly, which until the year 2019 had benefits less than 3,000_million euros, which is not bad, but that the year 21 grew to more than 10,000_million euros, in the face of the system of fixing marginalist prices. Pimec calculated, a few weeks ago, that by 2022 these six companies will have extraordinary benefits between €33,000 and €76,000_million. The chairman of the Pimec Energy Commission estimated, this same week, 10,700 the benefits of the one that has already won the energy companies in the first quarter of 2022. And both Pimec and Barcelona's own Chamber have put in store, moreover, that most of the peppers are painting hard the consequences of the war in Ukraine and that they put in play up to 320,000 places of work. Apart from, of course, all the effects on Catalan consumers and, in particular, the most vulnerable. To address this crisis, the Spanish Government has proposed a royal decree, on 6/22, which this late is a debate in the Congress, which will clearly be insufficient. And in consistency, we did not accept the SCP papers in this line, which we appreciate. This decree provides for measures to compensate electro-intensive enterprises with only EUR 488 million. Compare this to the 10,700 that in three months have won the businesses of the oligopoly and see that it is absolutely ridiculous. What it is to find a mechanism so that these oligopolies companies do not have these fallen benefits of the cell or that they are taxed which is intended to help the peppers and consumers. Gentlemen of the PSC, you, as always, are complicit in this demeanor. And gentlemen of the commons, are you sure you're going to follow the Spanish government? Because his program, ladies and gentlemen of the commons, speaks up to six times of the oligopoly and says textually "that it must promote a new democratic energetic model, free from the domain of the oligopoly and socially just. Do they think they're socially just, these fallen benefits of the cell? Certainly, the PSC doesn't mention its election program right now... they see that the Junts read our election programs, huh? Of the others. So don't mention at any time the word "oligopoli" or anything that was assembled. It must be that they believe that they do not exist or that they do not need to do anything to age because they do not exist. Maybe it has to do with the rotating doors. In turn, to the Junts per Catalunya election program, which I hope everyone has read, we talk until again about the fight against oligopolises and, in concrete terms, prioritizing the protection of consumers before abusive practices of large operators, especially IBEX companies. And that's why – that's why – we have consistently presented this motion and put the look on what they support the Spanish government. Do you allow me to continue the abuse of the oligopoly, with these fallen benefits of the cell to six companies, at the expense of consumers' buttocks, which suffer from an inflation of up to deu_per_cent at this time and the cost overruns that affect the peppers? We are talking that in three months they have won the triple that in a whole year previewed the crisis. Gentlemen of the commons, I'm already leaving the government. They cannot help illegally enrich the businesses of the oligopoly with their votes. From the Juntes, we propose to apply measures that truly serve to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine. We have submitted, in this motion, until we give proposals to ask the State, convinced that if we were here a state, we would put them on the march immediately. I only highlight some of these points for lack of time. First, take the gas out of the marginalist pricing system and establish price control mechanisms, as France has done, with nuclear but also with hydropower. It's the way to pay for every energy at its real cost. Second, increase the taxation to the electric oligopoly because the public sector recovers the fallen benefits of the cell. With the measure approved for the European Union this week of limiting the price of gas to EUR 50, the benefits of the cell will continue, eh? ; we estimate that in the order of 20,000_millions– it will not be as much as we have so far calculated, but 20,000_millions of euros–, and an extraordinary source to meet the needs arising from the crisis in Ukraine, which the Government values in 750_millions of euros, and to increase the public deficit rate from 0.6_per_cent to u per cent to dispose of up to 1,000_millions of additional euros. Finally, we have included a point one, addressed to the theme of the Next Generation. The crisis caused by the coward..., we have not yet emerged from this crisis and the State has re-discriminate us and punished us, devoting only 7.8_per_cent of the Next Generation funds, as the president of the chamber has not to insist on it lately. We have an opportunity to fix it by approving this point that we have traded with the PSC and with the commons – thanks, too – and that you plan to allocate the PERTE on microxips and semiconductors, announced with 11,000_million euros, to the FabCat project that are promoting the chambers of commerce of Barcelona and Girona, together with six universities and research centers. To end, President. We will only be able to overcome the crises of the 21st century with a similar state, and we are already carrying three of them and the Spanish State has not helped us. Left, Junts and CUP know what's keeping us, which is why they're spying on us. Now what we have to do is agree on what we do and do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.13.0	Then, in the defense round of the papers presented, has the word in the first place the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.14.0	Well, good morning to all of you. Good morning, Mr. Canadell. I like that you like to make friends; that does good enough, huh? , say, there..., build alliances to change the world. That's how I like it. Don't worry – don't worry – we won't get out of the state government. I believe that the workers and workers of this country, the popular classes, the most vulnerable sectors of society are satisfied with our participation in the Government of the State. I think we have been able to demonstrate that it is possible to make policies for the social sectors that are patenting the consequences of this capitalist system, which we know what interests you. We have proof: the ERTE itself, huh? The management of ERTs when the economic crisis has fallen into the pandemic or now that they are running, I think it is a magnificent situation that is allowing many workers not to fall into the disempowerment of the definite attunement, and is also allowing to maintain the productive capacity installed in this country and not to destroy it as was done in previous governments. Therefore, our participation in the Government of the State, we understand that it is positive from the point of view of the values that we defend, which, unfortunately, are not the same as you defend. Because it is certain that the power of oligopolises is important in this country, but it is certain that in the conversations that, years ago, at the Majestic Hotel, they made such a Mr. Pujol, the invaluable leader of his predecessors, parties, and Mr. Aznar, they agreed things that they wanted to see very much with the economic structure that this State has and, therefore, with the power that oligopolises have consolidated over these years. I remember the alliances between the People's Party and Convergence and Union, which have determined, in a strict and clear way, what is happening, unfortunately, in this country many years ago. Your young lady's been deceiving me. I am disappointed, because under the title of "economic impact of the war in Ukraine" it speaks to us of a problem, which is that of the price of electricity. A problem that, you know – well, if you don't know, look at it – is planned for the war in Ukraine. Or don't you remember that at the end of the year electricity prices were already alerting businesses and citizens? Or don't you remember that the inflation increase started from last year's summer? , which disappeared, of course, with the war of Ukraine. If we want to talk about the economic consequences of the war, perhaps the first thing we need to do is know something about economics. The economy is applying resources to needs. Certainly, scarce resources to growing needs. And this isn't the exercise that's done in this young man. This young man doesn't talk about economy. This young man wants to speak only and exclusively to ask another government, not our government, not the national government, not the government of Catalonia to do things, but to ask another government that does things, or to ask another government that gives us resources, but renounces our own abilities to do things and to provide us with resources. Because we can equip ourselves with resources with our own capabilities – limited, certainly, but still limited, possible – to increase resources that would allow us to do things according to people's needs. And doing things can do them. For example, in the motion they ask that the government transfer to us the competitions in renewable themes of more than fifty megawatts. But what about those less than 50 megawatts that are our competence and we haven't done anything until today? Why do we want more than 50 megawatts if we are unable to do what we can do, what we have skills and are not doing? That we haven't deployed any renewables! What's wrong? What's wrong? Let's not fool ourselves into ploramics. We are political and we are talking about the economic consequences of the war, if we want to, and we are talking about it in truth. Price control, wages, inequality. Yesterday I said it and today I repeat it, it is the three instructions that the unions have placed on the table for the manifestation of this First Maig. Certainly, all those who are workers and workers go to the event of the First Maig because it is also a way to pressure governments because it is concerned to control prices, to encourage the rise of wages necessary to maintain the economic activity of the country and to combat inequalities, which are the policies that we can do. We will vote on some questions of this motion, but not all of them. Most of us will abstain, because you don't feel like asking for things that we're unable to do and manage from here because we don't know or want to. And some of us will vote for them, because we understand that they bring positive elements of concrete work that can be done from Catalonia. But, I repeat, it has come to my attention that a group like Junts for Catalonia and a Member like Mr Canadell, who I assumed was sufficiently familiar with the economy, has not been able to make concrete and positive proposals for things that we can do in Catalonia for the sake of Catalans and Catalans. Stop crying and get us to work. This is what we do when we are in the governments, all of us, above all the Government of the State, or in the governments of the municipalities, where we show that we can govern the service of the citizenry. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.15.0	Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, has the words of Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Canadell, he almost fooled us with the title of the young man, as Mr. Gallego said earlier, with the «economic impact of the war. And now he's changing us, and he's telling us that this is about the fallout benefits of the cell, and he's telling us who's complicit in this situation. But let me explain: do you know who is not an accomplice, but directly responsible for the marginalist system you refer to? Among other things, you. The year 97, when this law was passed during the first period of the Aznar government, was essential, as this government was in minority, the votes of Convergence. This law – of those weddings these confits – would not be valid today without the participation of their predecessors, if you want to say so, since probably more than half of their deputies have been mayors, directors, directors or members of Convergence. Therefore, we are where we are because we come from where we come. Beyond that, Mr. Canadell, after the fireworks with which he gave us in the previous inquiry to this young man, we certainly hoped for a motion of treachery and mockery, and it was – coincidental with Mr. Gallego – disappointing. Of the eleven points that you present in this motion, in eleven insist, demand or, in the best of cases, demand. In zero put proposals to be made by you, by the government. They'll tell me with all security – in fact, he has already said – that they're competitors of the State and that if we were independent we'd tie the kids up with long-terms. But you demand everything, and you don't require anything. The first level of self-requirement, in our view, or the first deficiency of the motion is that you speak exclusively of macroeconomic issues in relation to the fixing of prices, etc., but they do not talk about the effects of this crisis on families, people or businesses. Surely, because this would take place in their skills and in their responsibilities and they could not resort to the easy recourse to demand it from others. For us, the economic impact of war has effects... or, better yet, has consequences, too. And to illustrate what I am saying, look at some of the measures that will be voted from here to a seat in the Congress of Deputies: a national plan that refers to the causes, but also to the effects on people; a 20-cent increase in fuel; a strengthening of the measures related to ERTO and accommodations; the limitation of the loguers; the revision of the minimum vital ingredient with a fifteen-per-cent increase, while in Catalonia the IRSC has been frozen for eleven years – since 2010 –; the electrical social goods are at 600,000 families; measures of the ICO. And they'll tell me, "Well, that's the state and they have cents. But we can't stand the comparison with other communities. Miri, the Valencian government has allocated 944_million to deal with this situation: 385 aid to businesses, families and self-employed people who have been adversely affected by the increase in costs; 380 efficiency measures and energy savings; 71 measures for the fight against inflation. The Balearic Government: twenty-five measures to increase, also, the guaranteed social income – I say again, here we have the frozen IRSC– ; help to eat; calls to alleviate the poor energy; also subsidies to alleviate the rise in the price of fuels, etc. Here, nothing on his face and a poor decree that we validated yesterday. We will vote on some of the young people's agreements, those in which they have accepted papers or been traded, but I do not want to end up doing it again..., without paying me back five hundred years ago, as you did in the inquiry, and in the defaults of the Spanish State. But again I say: year 97, not to go so far, the approval of the law that establishes the marginalist system is done with the votes, at that time, of the People's Party and the votes of Convergence. Despite this, and that you love to enjoy in your vision that all evils come from outside, from Spain, and that, as always, according to you, the Spanish Government is late, poorly, with insufficient response, just to mention a couple of data that have come out a few days ago on the part of the International Monetary Fund: the growth forecast for Spain for 2022 and 2023 is 4.8 and 3.3 respectively, the highest in the euro area and the highest in the advanced economies. For inflation, 5.3 for enguany, for 22, and 1.3 for 23; in this case, the lowest of the whole euro area and advanced economies. You may, perhaps, start trying to take an example or, at last, or, if not, row in the same feeling instead of always going against. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.17.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.18.0	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. Canadell, you've had brighter days, huh? They take him out of the « Spain steals us and gives him a fantastic mess. I don't know... I don't think anyone in this Chamber has understood you. Indeed, coinciding with Mr Ribas and the..., my nickname, Mr Gallego, that, in the end, this in principle..., that everyone today could sense that we were going to talk about the economy, but it is true that, in the end, you have raised a series of measures that have to do with energy, right? – with energy. They have mixed barbecues with merinas and left many of the reasons behind the current increase in energy prices and this inflation that is eating the purchasing power of families by the feet. It is false one of the things that appears in the motion's approach, and is that all this is because of the vile Russian invasion of Ukraine. That's not true. Mr Gallego also said so. Inflation problems in Spain and Catalonia have been dragging them at least since June last year. It is true that it has accelerated and precipitated the consequences of those weaknesses that we have been dragging in energy terms for years. If we just look at Kiev we won't fix the problem. That is just to take advantage of a fateful, pitiful war to try to justify and evade domestic political responsibilities. Inflation, the amazing increase in energy, the loss of purchasing power of families, the fall in competitiveness of our companies, are mainly due to a lack of responsibility and a lack of serious and mature state policy that addresses the endemic lack of Spanish energy sovereignty; among other things, but that is fundamental, isn't it? The hasty energy transition has also influenced. The culture of "not everything has also influenced. Acting on the dictate of the mantras of the Greta girl also influences. Because all this influences, it is closely related to energy, the price of energy and the lack of energy producers in Spain that make the price of energy competitive. The false climate emergency has therefore led us to a real energy emergency. Well, they have gone from superguays, and they have been for many years that'well, we have to shut down nuclear power. They have been closing the door – here especially in Catalonia it has been amazing –..., they have paralysed renewable projects for many years, they have closed the door to fracking, to make oil explorations, they have indirectly increased the price of energy through the bestial increase of the green tax pool, and all that ends up paying any Catalan in the energy bill at the end of the month. Doesn't all this affect energy? Of course it affects energy. Of course that affects, in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, that we have an inflation that is well above the European average. Of course it affects depending on Russians, Algerians and Cathars, at ninety_and_eight_per_cent, so that this country can lift the blind. Of course it does, of course it's intimately related. Therefore, those are the underlying problems. And those problems are not addressed by the text of this motion, are they? I think we have to reduce – we said it yesterday, we will continue to say it during the next plenary session, right? – green taxation; we must allow the exploration of hydrocarbons; we must not criminalize nuclear energy, which the European Union has so far classified as a clean and green energy. Not here in Catalonia, here it is... But well, the European Commission and the vast majority of European countries consider it that way. We do agree with the decoupling of gas from the energy bill. The emissions trading regime has to be automatically suspended, and we have to stop wasting, as my colleague said before, public money in order not to promote this climate neo-religion, right? In the end, there are many things that need to be done to help families. A lot of people can't start, plug the heating in Catalonia. A lot of people don't know how they're gonna be able to pay the electricity bill. Energy poverty is being unleashed. And all that, of course, cannot be settled with this motion that you are presenting today, in which, well, then, you do what you always do: to urge the Government of Spain to do things, and while we continue to spend on chiringuitos. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.19.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I'd like to start by saying that she's a young lady, a little insufficient, basically because she doesn't address the main problem of what's behind all the fold. And that's why I'm going to make some premeditated considerations. Because it's all based on the effects of the war crisis, but we need to talk about the crisis of the covid pandemic and, at the same time, the conflict in Ukraine, which has brought energy and food prices to record levels. It doesn't start with the crisis of war, but it does. The war in Ukraine, what it has done, is to globalize it, and it has brought it to the right level, as we have seen now, right? That is to say, the rise in the prices of the first materials is on the way to experiencing its most pronounced increases since the 1970s, sending, therefore, a wave of patience all over the world as the prices of the essential goods that all human beings need to survive are growing. The prices of the blat have risen sixty per cent since the fever. Food prices are now higher than during the 2008 global food crisis. A global food crisis of 2008 that has forced 155_million people to the extreme poor. If now the priests are higher, where does this crisis lead us? And what we see in the background is that central banks have little control over the real economy, and that what we are talking about is the real economy, not the casino economy, the speculative economy, and that, therefore, what we are talking about is capitalism. And this is where there is the problem; not the crisis of the war in Ukraine or the crisis of the pandemic. In the background we always end up at the same place, which is the capitalist system, which capitalist economies have to see, right? , with the inflation of prices in good and serve, and that's the problem, here's the problem. That, in the background, we are at a crossroads of the offer, and that this gap in the offer is in fact a continuation of the slowdown in industrial production, international trade, business investment and growth of real GDP, which had already occurred in 2019 before the pandemic was cut, which sparked the pandemic. So, here I come back, what we are talking about is about the system, not about punctual crises that generate some consequences. It is obvious that the crisis of the war in Ukraine will speed up a problem that was already at stake and that is the main problem. For us, therefore, the important thing is not to generate short-term measures that could be acceptable, but to address structural measures, and this goes to drive investment and production through public investment. So, let's get back to it, we need to talk about planning, about planning which investments are needed. A sufficient public investment would, however, require significant control of the main sectors of the economy. For us it is here that we must go, to control the main sectors of the economy. And that has to do with energy control and agriculture. Without that, we systematically go to the same troubles all the time. So, do we give short-term measures that can be acceptable? Okay. But, for example, if we talk about the first point of the motion in relation to the immediate removal of the natural gas from the system of fixing marginalist prices, we will say 'yes, it is an acceptable economic measure, but the problem is the fixing of price to the marginalist market; therefore, with this we do not address the problem. Shall we lower electricity prices? Yeah, but we're still playing the casino. The problem is playing casino with an essential good like energy. Therefore, in this case, in many cases we will vote yes; in others we will abstain, with this idea that short-term measures can be acceptable, but they are not the solution, and while we do not address the solution, we will systematically follow this, and in some people we will vote no. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.21.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.22.0	President, MPs, MPs... Mr. Canadell, you're a magician of juggling and stunned debates. When they made the question, we thought it would be about proposals from the Government to which their group is a party, proposals in the affirmative, proposals that would give us, therefore, a debate that could be, in this Parliament, to tax or to give impetus to the government action of the Government of the Generality. But not. First of all, you do not bring in measures that speak of fighting, precisely, the crisis that you suppose has created or created only for the war of Ukraine, for the invasion, cruel invasion of Russia in Ukraine. And they're talking about energy, as they're talking about energy afterwards, because I suppose they were in a hurry, or their government partner was in a hurry, and he also decided to make another move on energy, which we'll talk about later, but I also think it's in the same..., or it's in the same sense, even though there's a certain decency to make some own proposal, that the government of Catalonia..., while some of them are hard to fit in; but, well, at least we can control that. You haven't; you end up talking about what needs to be done at the Congress of Deputies. In fact, today there is a debate about these measures – they could have done it there. This motion, certainly, therefore... well, in fact, urges the Government of the Generality to urge the Government of the State, and to end Europe immediately, including in some cases. It is true– and here I am already in what you propose– that there are measures that you have here, or that you have brought us here, that for us, therefore, are acceptable, because we have defended them to the Congress of Deputies. Clearly, we will not vote against what we have already voted on or proposed, in fact, to the Congress of Deputies. Because we are always in the same; in fact, we have seen a first part of this rather curious debate, because you came here to talk about what the Government of Spain should do, and then the groups that defend the Government of Spain have come out and said that they can do what they can do and that they should do it here. But in the end, neither you nor the Government of Spain will be able to implement the measures they want to implement, because their partners have already told them today – that they are themselves, because in the end it is all a strange conjure – that they cannot approve them. So, in the end, who ends up paying for this? The citizens. And that's what we're talking about. We speak precisely of those who are found day by day, therefore, that their purchasing power has fallen, of those who are found day by day that possibly in a_me they will have to close, and we speak, in fact, no longer so alone of the most vulnerable classes, but of the middle classes and workers, that every time they see that many things, – including their economic abilities that they had before the crisis of the covid and these last years – no longer hold them, or many of the things that they could do before they could no longer do them. And what do they see? So they see that neither in this Parliament nor in the Congress of Deputies has anything been done at all. We can have this debate, Mr Canadell, and it can be very interesting; we can talk about history, we can talk about what you want. I could also talk about history. In fact, sometimes, even here, there are concepts such as ‘neoreligions, too – both you and Mr Gallego, who have done so before – but clearly, in this case, I think we are not for this, but we are for other reasons. We have found an interesting proposal, which is the 11th, which we will vote for, and which is actually talking, therefore, about giving Catalonia a boost to a programme to be managed with the State. So, this is an example of coordination with the Government of Spain, the Government of the Generality, and impulses. We'll push policies in the right place. Also – and here I have already announced, because I believe that there are other groups that support the Government of Spain to vote against it – we will vote in favour of precisely limiting the influence of gas on electricity prices, and therefore we will vote in favour of point 1 and point 3, as we have advanced, and other points that are important, such as the management or requirement in the State of the equipment of tolls between middle and high voltage lines. I think that this is good for the peppers; I think that it is good, in this case, so that there are no differences between some territories and others, also the fruit of political pacts, many times – political pacts of all injustices – and that end with the equality of all Spaniards. I'm not getting any longer, but we could talk about a lot of fears. I think, more or less, we've made our position clear. Thank you, President; Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.23.0	Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the words of Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.24.0	All right. President, counselor, deputies, deputies... we're talking about energy, and we've always said that energy transition is an emergency and that the fact that it won't cost. And, in fact, the costs can be two, that is to say, if we do not make the energy transition: from one band, the continuation to the dependence of fossil fuels, therefore, will bring us a _marc of contamination and, therefore, of the increase of the climate change; or, from the other, an energy dependence on other territories from which we will have to carry the energy, whether from renewable origin or not, with the costs; therefore, the renunciation of energy sovereignty or also the costs of transport infrastructure, which will impact on our territory. To make the energy transition, therefore, is an urgency and will have costs – it will not be easy, it will have to do – but the costs of not doing it are greater: they are costs in the salvation of people, in the environment, in governance, since we renounce energy sovereignty, or also, obviously, in the costs at the price of resources and energy; costs that, in any case, charge on the skeins of citizenship. And this last vector, that of the priests, we are seeing these days, weeks, or, in fact, already months ago, as it was previously pointed out, today accelerated for the increase of the price of the Russian invasion in Ukraine, but that of the moon, this increase of price was already there; it was already, because it was cause of an energetic model that did not think of the peppers or the working class of our country, but it was built and thought exclusively to promote the benefit of some, in fact, the usual ones: the oligopolises that have controlled and controlled the energy sector in our country, and that have done so, in fact, with the complicity of the State, that is, with the parties that have crossed over during the past year, the People's Republic of Poland. The war, it said, has accelerated it, and that is why it is no accident that two groups in the chamber today... and, in fact, Madrid has also been debating energy and the costs of energy, energy transition, climate change, etc. They are argued that between them, in fact, they coincide with the need for a boost in renewable energies, the limitation of prices or social and fiscal aid to the most affected groups. Measures that I will tell you are welcome, but in many cases, as it was before, they arrive late and are short as much in the abst as in time. But, besides, they have other problems, of which I would like to highlight two. On one side, and for me the most obvious and worrying, and that in a way it already looked at a while ago, is that these measures may have a positive impact on the people while they last, but they are still pieces. In fact, the first steps in themselves are a new missed opportunity. In fact, they are a renunciation to make a model change, a structural change in the Spanish energy system, surrendering again, as always, to the oligopolis. They're measures that bite into the place of transformation. And the second problem is that they clean everything up. It's that typical meta-policy chanting policy; it's like you're taking everything you want. And it is that from this royal decree that will be debated today in Madrid there are questions that may be positive, but there are questions in which we are frontally opposed, such as measures that will hardly affect the environmental or democratic impact of the processes, included in Chapter 3 of this royal decree, and that affect solar projects of between fifty and one hundred and fifty megawatts or, wind, between fifty and seventy-five, and that, in fact, they carry the public information of these projects, do not eliminate the citizen consultation periods, resume so many days to make the environmental impact studies that, in fact, eliminate them, or even, if it has not agreed with the owners, it is appropriate. Clearly the accelerator is set for renewable energies, but at the cost of what? They put at risk democratic guarantees of processes and the impact on the environment and biodiversity. In fact, in a press release, the same Spanish Association for Environmental Impact Assessment put it in place; that is, they share the need to accelerate renewable energy processes, but they called for guarantees of democratic control and protection of the environment and biodiversity. And, in fact, please add that I simply complete the terms that the respective regulations lay down this could be achieved. In fact, it is what the Government of the Generality is doing, incorporating more human resources into Icaen to process renewable projects and more human resources into the General Directorate of Heritage to improve environmental impact studies. We believe, therefore, that so much is important what like eating. And, in this sense, we regret that with the excuse of the urgency, certain and real, of the measures for the increase in price and the urgency of the energy transition, the Government has given up doing what it has to do: measures that give answer to the needs of the people, not through pieces, as it said, but through a structural change, a change of energy model that is at the service of the people, the economy and the environment: decarbonized, denuclearized, distributed, participated and without oligopolises. In short, and said in another way, the model change that we are driving from Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.25.0	So finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.26.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, I didn't say hello before, I'm sorry, I'm doing it now. Well, I'd love to have this speech you've made that we've been debating for many hours, because I'm sure there's a lot to say. But, listen to me, lords of Socialists and the commons. We are the people of Catalonia of yes: yes to help the small and medium-sized company, yes to help consumers. And we base it on results. And the results are what they are. In three months the companies of the oligarchy will have won the triple that with an entire year before the crisis. From all of the crisis. I agree that not only from the crisis in Ukraine, but that this came from before. Therefore, the parties that I have to tell you on the left, please, act as such, because this will remind you; this crisis will unfortunately last for a while. We remind you of that all the time. Do you know what news today gives the expansion this morning? That Repsol has doubled the benefits in this first quarter. That's gonna come out all the time, huh? And you'll be the ones to blame. So, watch out, 'cause you're gonna get away with this whole year. Madam Regunant, we agree that the problem is capitalism, but not capitalism itself, but the dark face of capitalism, which are the oligopolises and the revolving doors. And that's what these gentlemen allow, being in the Spanish government. Because, in short, the problem we've been talking about here today is the problem of Spain for centuries. And now I'm talking about history. The famous six-cent families that today are in the Bernabéan lot and are still alive, that's the big problem. And that's why we want to go to the solution to the big problem. What did the generality do? Yesterday we passed a decree that went in this line to help with the skills we have. And, in fact, we press thirty-three per cent of taxes on electricity. So, we're doing it, we're doing what we can. But that's why we want the total competitions of a state. This is the final solution. So, I'm not putting this on us. We ask in the State, because if we were a state – and I said it before – we would be approving it now. I'm sure Esquerra, together and the CUP would agree to carry the oligopolises and, once and for all, don't let that happen. Because the Catalan Republic, the day that will be born with a point to its constitution where I say that the oligopolises that you allow are forbidden. [[Rialles. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.27.0	So we're done with the debate, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this middle, once we substantiated the number 20 point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the special work centres]] [[302-0128/13]] Let's move on to the dissette point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the special work centers. The Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group has presented it, and it has the word, to make its presentation, Mrs Elena Díaz. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, okay, he's sick. All right. So, Mr. Moreno's on his way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, first of all, to excuse Elena Díaz Torrevejano, the deputy who, for reasons of salvation, will not be able to defend this young man whom she has made, managed, negotiated. And, therefore, in his name I will make the defense. Among other things, he asked me to thank Deputy Jordi Albert, Maria Antònia Batlle, Jess González, Joan García, her pocket, her contributions; we have reached agreement with all parliamentary groups. Also to all the special work centres – I would like to take this opportunity to greet the director of Dincat, Mr. Campuzano, who is accompanying us from the lot today – and also to welcome his contributions to enrich the content of this young man. This motion reverses the willingness of our parliamentary group to defend the special work centres in Catalonia and guarantee their financing. Welcome, Mr. Counselor. The first point of this young man is simple. Let us say again that what is needed, in any case, is to complete the law and, therefore, what we want is to complete the royal decree that the State has recently approved and that it protects the special work centres for which it does its financing and that it establishes a few minimum subsidies based on the disability of the workers and workers of the special work centres in Catalonia. We cannot also put Catalonia at a disadvantage from the point of view of the rights of people with disabilities. We ask that the law be fulfilled. And it hasn't happened in Catalonia for many years. It does not happen, as the laws of the state contain, because here, let's say, we have opted for another form of financing – then I will mention it – which we consider to be detrimental to the jointness of the sector. Subsidy, as I said, at the very least that establishes the royal decree supposes the disadvantage for the seven thousand people, workers and workers, who in Catalonia are working at special work centres. Other points were directly intended to reinforce the original purpose of special work centres, which is to train and donate, to enable people to work there because they can then enter the ordinary market. The CETs were created as this space of transitional formation, but today the CETs are the space of work, of socialization, of life, of the seven thousand people who work there. And it shouldn't be like that. And that goes hand in hand for three reasons. First of all, for the difficulties in finding ordinary market enterprises that include persons with disabilities, for the lack of proactive policies on the part of the Government of the Generality that facilitate this incorporation – it cannot be left solely in the hands of the special work centres, but must be proactive, Mr. Counsellor, in this regard – and for the lack of residential alternatives. When disabled workers and workers are big fans they have no choice but to leave the special work centres, a housing alternative that makes them need to be there because it is their only place of socialization. It's not just his place of work; it's his surroundings. So it's three difficult problems to solve, but in your hands, Mr. Counselor, they're the first two. And, before this scenario, we, with which we have gathered from other contributions from parliamentary groups, propose in this motion that we develop with economic and social agents a plan of transition from the special work centres to the ordinary enterprise, that goes beyond the work enclaves, that are very positive, and that goes beyond the work with support, but that the crossings must be eliminated, that the current penalties must be eliminated. Aids and subsidies must be increased to ordinary market firms for the adaptation of work places, he must be proactive. And I advise you to look at the Balears model, which does very well. Increase the technical and human resources of the Labour Inspectorate. Catalonia has exclusive skills in job inspection since the year 2010, when the very honorable President José Montilla, using our Statute of Autonomy, signed the transfer of these skills, resources and staff. Therefore, use these skills that you have and increase them. And what this Labour Inspectorate, then, does the task of making the Lysmi complete for what it does to the reserve of work places for people with disabilities. And other points of the movement are in line with the modernization of the parties. We need to take advantage of our protected work fabric, created years ago, to modernize them. The other elements that are closely linked to the Directorate of Social Economy, which will certainly make it impossible for us to reach a model of special work centres in our country. Counselor, the problem we have in the disastrous relationship between the Directorate-General for Social Economy, third sector and cooperatives with the special work centres. Here's a problem, public. Therefore, I hope that you will take steps to respect it. Cal, therefore, modernise the sector, to make it more competitive. More so, so that digitization is a fundamental element, modernizing its processes. There have been very positive experiences. Miri, for example, Prodis a Terrassa, with the reform of the El Vapor building. Look at the merger recently made by the Catalonia Workshops Foundation with the Sant Pere Claver group. They're initiative... two of the many other fusion interests of this collection. Therefore, we need to set up specific lines that give us recollection. These are some of the proposals which are put forward in this motion and which we consider by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.29.0	Next, has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, the deputy Ms Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillors. We also welcome the people who accompany us today; Dincat, in concrete. The motion we are discussing today about the special work centres, which the Socialist Party presents and which we have worked together on in various papers on which I will now speak, we have done together, especially with the visit also from the entities, such as Dincat, as the Association in Defense of the Rights of Persons with Intellectual Disability – Ladd – which is to say that it is an organization of families, mostly professional seas that were organized five years ago to fight against the violation of the rights of their children and their daughters. And I would say that sometimes this prospect of families often ends. And that's why we also want to make his work special. It's been years since Catalonia has come to this consensus and the decision, too, with concrete policies, isn't it? , to make a decided bet because the occupation, because the job was a big question for people with disabilities. We know that the fact of being in a job – and we are convinced that with the support that is lacking, above all..., it is not a job per se, but also adapted to the reality of people with disabilities – it gave autonomy and agency to the people of these collections so as to decide on their own life, whenever it is on a decent salary, whenever it is in conditions that are also adapted to their needs. And this fund bet continues to feel valid. What happens is that we have to make some adjustments, because the aspiration to have a job, sometimes..., all that we know is that it's a right and that it should be a donated issue, so many times it's left in this, in an aspiration for the shortcomings that the system has. And that is why we have entered into this conversation, to discuss and, therefore, to supplement and improve the Socialist Party's proposal, to which we certainly appreciate its collaboration. We highlight, in the line of the points that we have entered, the establishment of a specific line of support for workers older than fifty years, prematurely enveloped, who in the exclusion, too, of the collection is a sector of the population that must have specific conditions and lines of action and specific policies that face this reality. We're talking about the importance of the band, too, aren't we? , dual training adapted to people with intellectual disabilities. We can't talk about job placement and occupation without having clear format itineraries also adapted. Because many times they do not adapt, the itineraries are not flexible, both in training and insertion, as they should be with this collection. And here we bet..., because the professional qualification of people with intellectual disabilities can invite, for a band, the premature abandonment of the education system. And here we need to develop specific projects adapted to the concrete needs, especially young people. Because we also need to talk about prevention here, don't we? We're talking about the centers, but what's to be done before, especially, in this area? Investing in training is the best guarantee for them to have a job in the future. At the same time, it is the key to the legal compliment of the two-per-cent reservation of the enterprises of more than fifty workers, as Catalonia has more than eleven-thousand enterprises obliged to do so; to improve intermediation, too, with the Office of the Occupation of Catalonia, and to open calls and direct help to enterprises to promote the contract, which for many years the Generalitat has not been installed there. And, in the same line, the fact of booking protected work places for people who are not able to incorporate into the ordinary and old business because the special work centers definitely make the bridge pocket with the ordinary business, creating such emancipatory itineraries, really, for people with disabilities. We hope that all these initiatives are complete, because sometimes we know that in this Parliament we agree that after that they do not have the impulse and compromise and resources on the part of the Government. We hope that in this case it will result that all this effort and review of the current work system to protect its fruits, giving it above all sufficient resources and rethinking the model, to ensure that ultimately the special work centers need a real door to entry and training for access to the labour market, for the dignity, also, of the lives of people with disabilities, and at the same time give a response like call to people with special difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.31.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.32.0	Members, Members, President, Counsellor... Well, let's bring one of these issues today that I think are important to develop and to give momentum to our fabric many times business and above all, in this case, job placement, that are as important as running it or how we can help special work centers. But I want to contextualize, to begin with, this theme. Why do we think, from Ciutadans, that the PSC carried..., in fact, I want to thank the work of Mrs Elena Díaz – and that's better – but why do you bring this proposal? Basically because, in some ways, after having approved the royal decree – which was approved in 2021 – an order of bases for special work centres was drawn up by the Directorate-General for Social and Solidarity Economy and some entities that had access to it, they filtered out or gave to meet other entities in this area. I understand that here was, the Socialist Party, careful and proposed this post-interpellation motion, but we believe – and here we have to make clear what we think – that neither the entities agree with this order of bases. And I think this is important and I think it's basic that it's said today, because everything we're saying right now, so it's not going to go any further. We agree with this young man, that we don't think he's up or up to everything that the entities want, I think he's too short, but it's true that we've worked on him, we've submitted five essays to the text. The first one, which I think was very important, was not accepted, it was the most important of all, but the rest, so they worked together and a text will come out that will be approved. But it's not enough. There's a debate – there's a debate, and I think that's what we need to get to the counselor – and that's what this order and these special work center bases need to be changed. Basically because they don't agree, because they change the royal decree approved at the Congress of Deputies, and I think they're making it worse or at least limiting it in excess. We, the first item that we presented, and that we could not introduce, introduced the following text, that we believe is important because it collects a good part of the claims of some of the entities, and it was – and that will not be, and that will not be approved – "especially for what it refers to the subsidy imports and the limitations that they want to introduce and that are not contemplated in the royal decree. That is to say, what we wanted was for the royal decree to be implemented without these limitations that place on the table the order of bases of the special work centres. Therefore, I invite you, counselor, to be able to modify and work with entities and that, in fact, work with a certain consensus that there is in this House, that I believe there is. So, let's do it. The rest of the points we've worked on, so we've already talked about it here. We think the special work centres are undersubsidized, it's obvious. In fact, we find ourselves with a very clear reality, and it is when one speaks to the Government of Spain and says that the money comes to the Generality, that it comes to the Government of Catalonia, and when one speaks to the Government of Catalonia and says that it does not arrive enough, and when you talk to the entities and basically say that they do not know where the money is, but that they do not get there. Therefore, there is a problem – there is a problem – basic democratic and transparency, which is where money is and where resources are. They need more resources. And, beyond these resources..., without these resources we cannot do everything that, in fact, we will approve today, this..., that has already been talked about and that I will not repeat what we have said is going to do to this motion; that in the end it is a motion of the least, but that it clearly speaks of digitization, that it speaks of the job insertion, more there..., above all, of the transit to the ordinary enterprise, that for us it is very important and that allows, in some way, to give away to a very large collection – it has been spoken of seven thousand workers – which therefore needs this real help and this support on the part of the Administration and on the part of the Generality. So, back to saying it, counselor, at this point and this topic I think it's very important that we all agree that entities and workers need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.33.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Congresswoman Tonia Batlle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.34.0	President, thank you. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. We'll meet again today with a working class. In the past we spoke of vulnerable women and their inclusion in the world of work, and today, therefore, with another collection such as the disabilities and the importance of this integration, both work and social. For what has been said here, his place of work is part of this day-to-day integration of these people. The different issues and transactions that have been discussed with the different parties show the sensitivity we all have to the issue. I'm sorry, now that I see you, I'd like to wish for the good recovery of Congresswoman Diaz. We are talking at the level of Catalonia about around 630,000 people with a low occupancy rate, 25.8_per_cent, and a high attunement rate, about a twenty-three_per_cent. We do not have to value the task of special work centres by listening to them and responding to their needs because they are the ones who see it most in their day-to-day lives. Many aspects of what we are approving today in this House, as the parliamentary groups have said, will help these centres to continue with this model, which is a model that has been successful since its inception, but needs an adaptation. Some aspects to point out seriously..., that we cannot go into debate, obviously, but they do mean the differentiation between the centers that have a lot of work to do with those that are no longer a lot of work for which, therefore, the reception of grants, and also the competition in public competitions. The aging of the seedlings, which at a point in the motion is also spoken, and the differentiation between valid work..., invalidity–forgiving– work, and disability, which is very different, among many other issues. This Tuesday I had the opportunity to visit a special work centre in Malgrat, and to the title of example I will explain one of the problems that they explained to me. They have people according to their abilities, such as who can carry out work tasks, run them at the work center they have, but some others, who cannot, run them at the work center. These people, so... it's a day center that can do different activities. For some, the eighth would be to have flexibility and to be part of his day in one centre and part in the other, but this legal rigidity does not allow, and this would be one of the questions to..., to individualize these needs and power, so to have a better day-to-day of these people. Let's talk about insertion into the ordinary business. The objective of this integration is clear that it is to ensure success and durability. There is not enough to ensure compliment on the part of companies with this legal minimum set of two_per_cent, which we all know needs to be complete and not complete, but that all control mechanisms and awareness also need to be put in place. But all the more important is how this is included, both in physical adequacy and also in the individual needs of the worker. It's not the same assistance as a worker in a special work center that I would have in an ordinary company, but that doesn't mean that you don't have to work because you can have this good fit. Of the demands of the sector, of the representatives of the sector, could not pass the work that our parliamentary group does in the Congress of Deputies. By June 2021, a GNP was approved at the request of the Junts Group for Catalonia concerning the increase of subsidies to the CETs in order to compensate for the increase of the minimum interprofessional wage and thus guarantee its viability. Still, there is still a demand from the sector for an increase in respect for this. We know we're talking about very cross-cutting areas. And here I would like to make an incision to the dam, the coming week, from the Department of Social Rights, of the Table for the National Covenant of Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Among the different groups of work, which are very diverse, there is a specific for job insertion. Finally, I would like to end with an idea that I have drawn from the White Paper on training, occupation and work of people with disabilities realized for IESE in 2019. It is necessary to keep in mind the fact that there is between theory and practice. The theory we all have assumed: the importance of assuming the integration of these people and employing all media to get to this tape. And in society every time this awareness is more. But in practice, the advances are scarce and the percentage of people with disabilities who follow this integration, as I have given the data to the principle of my intervention, is still a long way from what we would like to go. There are many barriers to break down, and let's not forget that physics is many of them. Here all of us are responsible – the Administration, businesses and society in general – and we hope, therefore, that this responsibility will also be addressed for the department and that it will be directed towards improving, therefore, the level of subsidies and day-to-day help for these people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.35.0	And then, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy of the Republican Left of Catalonia, Mr. Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.36.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, Director General, Deputies and Deputies, Mr Campuzano, who accompanies us today with the representative of Dincat, Workers and Workers of Parliament... And today, please, a small reference in particular, between the workers and workers of Parliament, a reference to the Navy, which in a few days will retire and which has given excellent service in this chamber to each and every one of us. [[Greetings.]] Well, with this Socialist Party movement... and from here on I also send all the people and support to Congresswoman Elena Díaz, who, unfortunately, does not have enough to defend the movement today, but we have done the whole negotiation process with her, and therefore also to thank the will, from the very first moment, to reach agreements and a clear will, also, that these agreements have no capacity to compliment. And, therefore, in this sense, thank the Socialist Party for its predisposition and especially the Member. But it is obvious that on the special work centres we have to deal with different questions that I think are of shock-release, they are essential elements. And some of these questions have been touched here, but it is clear that there are different objectives that have not yet been settled. The main objective is insertion in the ordinary enterprise; it is that the ordinary enterprises have..., not only for a percentage reserve question, but also that they have this social commitment to generate the necessary ecosystem as because this transit from the special work centres to the ordinary enterprise remains successful. In effect, horse. And that is why we would agree to this proposal for a plan; it is a plan to guarantee this success. But, at the same time, there is also a regulatory flexibility; the regulatory flexibility that essentially has to be given to us by the modifications of the current legislation, state competence. Until we change the standard texts, it will be difficult for us to give a compliment to the priority objective of the special work centres, which is the job insertion to the ordinary enterprise of people with disabilities; working people who, in effect, need a determined ecosystem. There's the figure of labor enclaves, which we're critical of in one sense, and it's that we can't all trust labor enclaves. The work enclave means that this worker, in effect, still maintained his relationship with the special work centre, but that there is a stoppage because he joins the ordinary company in form..., of punctual character. This mechanism, which involves a bridge and a relationship, can also condition the own need of the ordinary enterprise to create this favourable ecosystem for the employment of persons with disabilities. And, therefore, the work enclave cannot be the solution; the work enclave is one more element than we have from the table. And, therefore, we agree with the proposal that we have finally come to a compromise, which stresses that it is a more important element, but that, in change, it cannot be the solution, because if the industrial enclave is the solution, we would be talking about a structural change, a model change. And we do not agree that the model change is based on the cessation of workers, but that the model change must be donated for the success of the transit of the special work centre to the ordinary enterprise. On the other hand, there are other questions. It is also a reference in the movement to traverses, work impediments. Well, here the competition is state; therefore, here who can take action without respect without any problem is the State. Therefore, this also needs to be made very clear and we must refer to it. On the other hand, it is the Labour Inspectorate that must also strengthen its resources, but the resources of the Labour Inspectorate are also conditioned to state processing. That is to say, the request made by the Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia to increase its cost is conditioned for the Spanish State, for the Government of the State. As long as these procedures are not speeded up, it takes too long to be able to empower, as well as to be able to reinforce the body of inspectors and labour inspectors in our country. And, so – so – it makes your pocket much harder. And, finally, a small reference also respects professional training, dual training: dual training is important, it is interesting, but we also need to avoid making the working rights of ordinary workers conditional on the working rights of special work centres that are part of the ordinary market. Therefore, these appreciations are important that we hold them. And Maig's own Primer, all in the street. Workers and workers, we have to defend our rights. Aim for Maig's First! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.37.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselor. « Meet me for my skills and not for my disabilities. It is a mythical phrase of Hensel, a fighter for the well-being of people with disabilities, and which summarizes the position of VOX: we have to look at these people for their abilities and not for their functional problems, which in the end we all have. On this occasion the Socialists are presenting us with a motion on the special work centres in Catalonia, work centres specialized in hiring persons with disabilities. Well, we are glad to see that, at last, beyond the ideological canteens about witches, feminist inventions, green delusions, it is today in this Chamber such a serious, important issue that affects many people in our region. So important that, after many years of political neglect by the various governments of the Generalitat, together with the impact of the pandemic and its disastrous management, the special work centres have remained in a situation of severe vulnerability. In general, the proposals put forward in this initiative seem reasonable, albeit insufficient. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe that it is necessary to deepen the reduction of the bureaucratic and administrative burden of the work centers and enclavements. It is necessary to promote tax incentives for this type of business and to make plans to identify those economic sectors that can better combine the social role with the productive capacity of a business activity. There is no need to devote so much effort and resources to inspecting, regulating and controlling. Gentlemen of the Government, devote more effort and resources to encouraging and improving the employment of people with special needs. Less criminalization of businesses and more positive incentives and incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, we miss in this motion something we have been proposing since our political formation: the reorientation of funds from the Generalitat's ideological priorities in terms of feminism, climate action and immigration to the real priorities of Catalan families, including the protection of people with some kind of disability. That is, less superfluous and ideological spending and more productive and social spending. Of course, we agree with those proposals that want to stimulate the digitization and modernization of production processes to adapt this type of business to the technological and economic needs of the twenty-first century. We also believe that it is appropriate to improve the transition channels between special work centres and ordinary enterprises. Look, any proposal that really promotes the employment and social inclusion of people with disabilities will have the undeniable support of our political formation. Unlike the sectarian and usual practice of the Socialist Party, we will support any proposal that improves the lives of Catalans, wherever it comes from. Ladies and gentlemen, the care, care and protection of people with special needs in our society are top priorities for our political formation. That is how we have moved it through the meetings we have held with the various associations and we have demonstrated it with numerous initiatives in this Parliament. The value of a society is evident in how its most vulnerable members are treated, and that is why we all have a moral duty to assume responsibility for the social and economic well-being of all those who suffer from a congenital or acquired disability. Moreover, I have the pride and responsibility to say that VOX is the only parliamentary group in this room that defends the life and dignity of all persons with disabilities from conception to natural death. [[Greetings.]] For us, every life is worthy and we will defend it no matter what. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.39.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Fortunately, in this plenary we are many parliamentary groups that defend the life worthy and liveable of all and every person, whatever their condition is. And that's exactly what I wanted to talk about before this young man, a young man who's hardly questionable that... any of the points he has are points that are to approve and some of the considerations I'm going to make right now. And it's because they worked together with the sector, which is what you know day by day what the problems are and what the right-wing contest has done, isn't it? In particular, therefore, the advocacy associations and the entities, which have set in motion initiatives to deal with what is not done with public policies. I would like to make, from our political space, from the CUP - A New Cycle to Win, some considerations. You can't talk about this, counselor, can you? ... that when we talk about business in general it is only to talk about this issue without implying that the special centers of work are immersed in this structural framework of capitalism that expels many people from the labor market, and expels them pre-charitable in many sectors, pre-charitable them in very difficult conditions of work and an inflexibility that makes it very difficult for many people, for their reason of mental salvation, functional diversity, etcetera, to adapt to this mark. Therefore, we must denounce that in this marque of feroted global capitalism that expels so many people from the labour market, it is obvious that people with special difficulties are double excluded. And we're good at making concrete policies like these to promote special work centres, but we also need to think of a global framework that thinks of an economy for life, an economy that puts life at the centre of life, also the support of life and cures. And here I go. It seems to me that it is important to comment, for example, on point 7, right? , which is the addition that has been made: "Enhance activation programs for people with disabilities who are found outside the labour market. It is essential, because there are many people left out, even special work centres or labour market inclusion processes. It's like, at these moments in the occupational centers. And the aging, isn't it? « Establish a specific line of support – as point 8 says – « to workers older than fifty years prematurely enveloped. Prematurely enveloped, but we also take into account what happens to the aging of all dependent people, that if they do not have an activity in the occupational centres or in the latter they do not have a guaranteed socialization. Because we're talking about people who need support to sustain their lives, but also to sustain the relationship, the sociability, that's so important. Therefore, capitalism as well as marc that violates rights, capacitism, this capacitism that makes when decisions are made..., as the deputy of Junts spoke earlier, who said: "It was approved to Congress a measure because the stars that made the rise of the minimum wage in the special centers of work was terrible. What does that mean? When general measures are taken, it is obvious, oblivious, that no one remembers that there are special work centres. That's why you're saying capacitism. The other thing that remains to be said is that Lysmi is 82. The mark... it's fine that we approve of things, but what's important is that we complete them. And the doubts that we have about..., man, it's very good that in a temporary way it's an incentive, aid and subsidies to businesses, but what we're hoping for is that these companies, with their own resources, subsidize themselves, act on themselves and have this social commitment that companies have to have with society. Because having functional diversity and having special needs for healing and sustainability of life is not a private problem, it is a community problem that we have to solve in community, and businesses also have to contribute. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.41.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Mixed Group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, okay. So finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mr Raúl Moreno returns to hold the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.42.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly. Thank you to all the Members and Members, too, for all the points we have agreed on with the conjunction of..., the whole House is dealt with and, therefore, with the contributions of everyone. Two very quick elements. Mrs Lazarus, you have said that any initiative for the inclusion of persons with disabilities will be supported by VOX. It's a lie. You, in September 2021, vote with the People's Party against the change in the Constitution of the concept of 'disabled person'. And as long as people with disabilities are treated as diminished, it is impossible for you to defend your rights. They don't understand what this is about. And people with disabilities, ma'am, may have disabilities, but they won't be fooled. They're disabled, but they're not dumb. With this you, since VOX, are not defending the disabled much less, when you even refuse to recognize what you should call yourselves before the law, before the whole of society. Second element. Mr. Joan García, why are we bringing this proposal? Indeed, because we had, we are afraid that this basic law will re-cut the rights of persons with disabilities, as the Government has been doing since, for example, the SMI grants are published. Because, in fact, we have gone there with the sector, we have gone to Madrid, to know what money comes through the sectoral conference. We've been able to see it, we've been able to count it and the money is coming. Another thing is that the Government – it can do so – dedicate that money to other active policies of occupation. It's not right for us, but he can do it. Now, don't tell us it's Madrid that doesn't pay. No, no, you dedicate the money to subsidizing the SMI to people with disabilities for other active occupation policies. And that's the way it is. And this is so and the numbers sing. And, in any case, we have had this same debate for years. Note if we have been waiting for the model for years, a model that does not arrive because there is no consensus, because they are unable to generate consensus. And, Mr Albert, we have been talking about the exact same thing for so many years here, and perhaps we should ask ourselves why the government has done absolutely nothing about it all this time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.43.0	So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half, once the number 20 point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of Law 3/2019, of the agricultural spaces]] [[302-00129/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of Law 3/2019, of the agricultural spaces. It was introduced by the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to advance and has the word to expose it by the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.44.0	Thank you, President. Well, Members, Members, to begin with, we should agree that we cannot lose any opportunity to value the agrarian world, an agrarian world affected by multiple problems, an overaffected agrarian world, therefore, for catastrophic frosts and for the increase in cost of production because of the war in Ukraine. From our responsibilities, we believe that we must help to counter, as far as possible, these effects and overaffections, but also all, citizenship in general, we believe, counsel, that we should change our gaze on the agricultural sector, on the agricultural world, often seen as a little dynamic, little attractive, full of problems. And we should recognize the agrarian world as an essential source, an essential provider of values, food values, ecological values and environmental values. And, in this sense..., yes, I will also speak of Alcarras, which we were able to see dilluns to Lleida ; works in this sense: to build a positive look on the agrarian world from the deepest humanity. This introduction relates to the motion following the inquiry made by Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra in the previous plenary session. She is sick today, we hope she is recovered soon, but the result of that inquiry, so she has also built this motion that we present on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance, with this will to make contributions in favor of the better of the agricultural world. It is structured into four levels. The first level is clear, we ask for the development of the law of agricultural space, which was approved for this chamber three years ago. We ask, therefore, that the territorial agrarian plans that you envisage be deployed, that the whole system of information, monitoring, monitoring, evaluation, control of the agrarian spaces be put into operation, that the inventory of rural paths be drawn up, that identify and delimit the peri-urban activity areas and that the plots are also invented and registered. The other three levels envisaged by the House are to boost the productive activity of agricultural land and also to promote the generational replenishment. At this point, we propose a series of questions, the first of which, precisely, abounds in this question of changing the gaze on the agrarian world and seeing it, therefore, as it is, a guarantee of quality food, a conservative of the territory and a generator of wealth. We also ask, therefore, that training is disseminated through agricultural schools, that vocational training is adapted to the needs of the different rural contexts and, above all, that the access of the students is facilitated, that it is sometimes difficult, therefore, for the differences and the added costs that it entails. And we also ask to complement the economic and technical follow-up already available, so for this generational relay, for the incorporation of young people into the sector, with different measures, such as, for example, encouraging the involvement of people who are jubilant, so much because they make available, to the extent possible, their lands as for the transfer of knowledge that they can realize, which is absolutely essential in this case. And the last question – not because it's the last is less important – the question of housing. The housing stock available in rural areas is very limited. There is a difficult problem with this issue; a problem that has different causes, but it is a common problem. This is why we ask to encourage collaboration between administrations so that we can put the maximum public space available to build housing, to build new public ownership housing, and also to rehabilitate the unused housing. We appreciate the presentations made by the different groups. We are convinced that they have served to improve the proposals that we are presenting and, therefore, we hope that the favourable vote will allow these agreements to be pushed forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.45.0	It has the word now, in the defense round of the papers presented, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Lord Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.46.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies and deputies, well, first of all, say that we will vote yes, therefore, to the totality of this young man. First of all, thank the facility in the negotiation, because our papers have been accepted or totally traded with other parties so as to improve its content and thus have a broad consensus. Still, we'll make some considerations, when we hear... above all, an essential to understand what's going on, so, to the rural world with the pagesia, with the young people. And that's to hear this current extractive economic model that we're also pating on our land and that mostly pates the rural world, isn't it? , a lot of small pages work day by day while the great wealth is taken over by the agri-food industry, which at these times already supposes more than the dinosaur_per_cent of the Catalan GDP. And of this GDP, fifty per cent is found far from the rural world. It is the rural world that produces what this industry needs, but it does not have, this, economic control. So what we need here is to make it clear that we need to plan always thinking about pagesia and not about agri-food macro-industry. The young man leaves because the system expels him and what we have to rethink is the system in its globality. At point one, we're not going to go in and evaluate each apartment, because we're all voting for it. And it's obvious that it's sad that we're again here asking for the compliment of a law that was passed almost three years ago. But unfortunately, constantly, right? We must be here the opposition remembering, therefore, that the laws that are adopted here must be thrown forward. And it shows this, so... I'll just say that some of the points that you have at this point 1, of the subparties, have already been brought to this House a few days ago, on November 4, 2021, in a motion that our parliamentary group presented and approved, that it also talked about deploying, before ending the first quarter of 2022, the register of agricultural parcels and branches in spite of the fact that it establishes this law. This quarter is this. We haven't seen him. Therefore, it is good that we remember again that the commitments are to complete them and that it is not happening. But, well, we suppose we'll soon have it on the table. Also remember that the Union of Pages has repeatedly requested that this law of land cover be deployed, because I understand that if we do not do this and put the corresponding credits in order to be able to deploy it, it will not be possible to put in operation some of the points that carry this motion presented today. Regarding point 2, the theme of the new instrument. The government tells us that it's already working and that it already exists. And in any case, we will also vote in favour, but what we want is to do these active policies now, right? So much for the sector and we don't care whether it's with a new instrument or with one that already exists. We will vote yes, but if the one that already exists works, it works for us, but above all I note, the affected ones, who really want to do these kinds of policies. On habitating, totally agreed, but remember that the Law 18/2017, of 28 December, in the apart of definitions is said that empty habitating..., to this effects are justified causes the trasllat, etcetera, or abandonment of habitating in a rural area in process of population loss. Therefore, we should also work to change, so, if we want to rehabilitate these houses – what is to be done –, these abandoned houses, we should also change first of all this law, because the definition already goes against us, therefore, of the rural world. The Munixic, the Munixic manifesto, at its moment also told us that they do not want, therefore, Cementary villages, that do not want these houses, this empty habitation park. More than a percent of the total number of housing parks in the rural districts of Catalonia are empty. That can't be. So this young man goes in there too, and that's why, so, we also support him. And to finish, therefore, as we speak of the rural world, all support for the Union of Pages. The page says so. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.47.0	Then, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Anna Feliu.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.48.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... I understand that the motion you are presenting, Member of Parliament, has a double objective. In one band, avoid the young Marxists from the rural world. And, on the other hand, the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world, which is not quite the same, because being a village doesn't mean it has to be paid or picked up, does it? Look, obviously we all agree that there is a problem with what we call territorial balance. We note that rural areas are depopulation and that there is an exodus of young people leaving towns to live in cities. This is, unfortunately, a widespread trend in Europe, too. And it's a problem that concerns all of us who live there, and in a special way that we are mayors and mayors of rural towns. The trend is from the far, it's not new now, but we all seem to agree that there's something we need to do, and I really celebrate it. For generations, many families have believed that it was better to encourage their children to study outside to have a better future, to ensure a profession that allows them to avoid the camp's felicitous labors, often poorly paid and conditioned to various influences. Not so many children of the Pyrenees – and you certainly know it perfectly – and other areas where agriculture has not provided enough benefits, have sent their children out to study, and have not returned, because, in fact, they do not have employment opportunities suited to their training. Thus, the metropolitan area is full of rural children who contribute their talent in various professions, and returning this talent to the rural world is a difficult task because of the lack of opportunities, but it is also trying from the Odysseus programme, returning young people to the rural world. That said, it is also true that there are young people who want to continue the work and work the lands of their family, or rather young people who want to start for the first time in the agricultural world and row. And these must help them with all the tools and resources, because they are an essential value to take care of our territories. And I have to agree with the casuistics and needs, because it's not the same as wanting to be paid to the Pallars He will know that to the Segria or the Garrigues, to put some examples of my area. Hence the importance of implementing the land law of 2019 and the elaboration of land plans that also lowers a register of land in use in order to be offered to young farmers in a generational replenishment plan. A plan that must put in value the primary sector as a generator of wealth and as a guarantor of quality food and in quantity enough to ensure full sovereignty and food security. And, in this sense, we should be more concerned about the agricultural activity and the preservation of our home, often in need, and we should all be more concerned, too, about how we have the salvation of the economy of the primary sector, because sometimes we don't think about it, about what we find at the supermarket or we have on the table, every day, out of the earth, and this land has to work somewhere. And apart from working on it, they also have to be able to make a living. Why being paid or rowing doesn't mean being an NGO, huh? They can't work for losers. I need you to recognize the work they do, and I need you to pay for it. Because, if we have help up to $70 thousand for nine incorporations into the agricultural world, we have land in waste, and, in change, we have a few young people who want to dedicate themselves to it, which means that something is not right. Why, in fact, maybe there's not enough to devote only economic resources for young people to the agricultural world, so these young people also see that after they can make a living, huh? That they can earn their lives with just price for their work. And, on the other hand, you can also bet on the studies of the 734 students of the agricultural schools, that sometimes it's a formation that looks like a little oblivion, that it's like you don't go out to the training portfolio that's offered to our boys and girls. And then, to all those who want to make it easier for our people. No young people there is no future for anyone. Without generational replenishment the territory is dead. We're working to make this stuff possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.49.0	And finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word Mrs Alba Camps, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, deputies. We are debating a motion which, from the outset, seems very correct to us. So much so that all the actions and initiatives he proposes are already taking part in the same department. In this sense, then, we are aligned and we will give there a support in general. Our discussions, in fact, have been directed towards moving to action, to reducing the terms needed in agricultural policies. The motion proposes the drafting of some kind of action that we are, in fact, already running; to create more structure than you will for the compliment of actions that we are already due to term. On the point of creating, in fact, new structures, we will abstain from them, because we do not believe in creating more structures that would duplicate functions, objective. As I was saying, we believe in moving on. And the department already ages for the impulse of agricultural production alone. And not only that, but he went much further and worked with the firm will to return the productive function to the rural world. And working for full food sovereignty, which isn't quite the same thing that's being moved or passed on to this young man. And as I say that the department went to work, I'm also trying to go there and say that we're about to bid on the agricultural sector; that we're going to call for aid in less than three months for the improvement and maintenance of rural roads; that we're working on the delimitation of peri-urban activity areas, and in a few weeks the land register deployment decree will come out. We're doing it, and this is our commitment. And we don't just bet and respond to the questions raised by this young man, we also due to long-term actions and we accompany initiatives that are aimed at recognizing the transformative potential of the rural and agricultural worlds. And it's that the youth is logical, but it's also repetitive: it's already happening. And it's not just repetitive, but it could also be a little more ambitious, because if we're not ambitious, we're unfair with all the potential that rural people in this country really have. The most transformative initiatives, in fact, are currently found and arise from the rural world. We're not just agriculture, we're innovation – I've said it over and over again – we're knowledge, we're a referent and we're an example of responding to many of the challenges we currently have as society, such as climate change. And I want to set an example on transformative initiative, which I'm more into, because it's the food sovereignty network of Central Catalonia, which currently counts on the involvement of municipalities such as Manresa, Artés and Navás. And what does this initiative mean? So return power to the territory; take advantage of all the projects that come out of the rural world, tighten them up and transform them; give the value that surrounds food, and align us with the necessary changes. We are not just talking about the agrarian world, which is an important but not unique point – not unique – of ruralism in this country. These are cross-cutting policies and initiatives that help to change the collective imagination, that transform not only the agrarian world, but the joint venture of society, with a view that from the Republican Left we have defended: social justice, equal opportunities and continuous work for people, for the better of the lives of the people of this country. Sometimes the public initiative lies mainly in accompanying and facilitating, because the success often comes from the same territorial, community, economic and social fabric of rurality. As I said, good ideas sometimes just need to accompany them. We cannot continue to reproduce the stereotypes that have done us so much harm, that in the last few years they have guided much of the political action that has led us to a more than obvious territorial inequality. Precisely this stereotyped view has led to a devaluation of the concept of pagesia; to the view of a rurality as landscape. And we can't fall into urbancentric proposals that reproduce the usual topics. In fact, the rural agenda goes much further. The rural agenda is not just an economic strategy of the primary sector as some pretend to believe; it is an effort of consensus, of defining necessary policies, it is a huge social agreement for rural areas; it is a country project, with a fair and empowering view of the rural world, with cross-cutting and global objectives. On the rural agenda there is everything: the perspective of youth, but also of housing, of feminism, of territories, of formative, of transport, of economics. We do not need, in the end, more full..., ai, more plans– full yes; plans. We need to finish the rural agenda, because the way we already have it is broad and global, and it is the future of the rural world, of young people and of social cohesion, for equal opportunities, for the new people and, above all – above all – to create and recognize all the new opportunities that are possible and sustainable to live in the rural world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.51.0	And after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.52.0	Good morning, President. Members, the Parliamentary Group of the PSC presents us with a motion on the generational relief. The truth is that we are surprised, since you and your great friends and partners, the separatists, have been economically, socially and environmentally impoverished for years in Catalonia. Unfortunately, the damage done to our region is not going to be fixed by these initiatives. The generational relief has not been a priority for you and for decades you have had no interest in knowing the situation in rural Catalonia or agri-food activity. In Catalonia only 9,62_per_cent of holders of agricultural holdings are less than forty_and_one years old, compared to 40,29_per_cent who are more than sixty_and_five years old. More than the same happens in priority farms, where only 24.48_per_cent of managers are less than forty_and_one years old. The situation in our primary sector is very serious. We're at the ICU. Not only because our young people no longer want to follow the family tradition or join the sector in work; the situation has been aggravated by their "ecolojetas" policies and their desire to comply with the 2030 agenda, which strike hard and without rest a sector structurally ill-treated by successive governments of the nation and the Generalitat. Right now the risk is real. More than thirty per cent of Catalan farms are about to disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, with the situation in our region, it is immoral to make proposals to waste public resources and economic policies that do not favour the sector. What is needed in the rural world? First we need an urgent birth plan that reverses depopulation in the interior of Catalonia; however much they ignore a problem will not disappear. Low birth rate is an important cause of the lack of generational relief. Gentlemen of the PSC, how do you intend to ensure generational relief if you are just promoting anti-natalist policies such as abortion. We must ensure that families can have children and look to the future with hope and illusion. Second, stop at once with your camp campaign. How they intend to encourage the generational relief if the Government of Spain and the Generalitat of Catalonia constantly demonizes the farming and agrarian practice of our region. Third, end the political and ideological waste and spend the money on real solutions to real problems in the agrarian world. Only by ending the Foreign Action and Equality Councils would we have 200_million to propose active agricultural and livestock policies and encourage young people to take on these professions. Work to curb unfair competition and ensure a good hydraulic situation. There is no need for institutional campaigns or to promote the creation of a new institution or proposals to feminize the sector. Chiringuitos we already have enough and what they have to do is eliminate what there are, use all that money directly in the empty Catalonia and in the agricultural sector. As always, in front of their empty speeches and proposals of content, but full of ideology, in VOX we continue to work day by day for the great forgotten: the people of the countryside, the farmers and the livestock. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.53.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members and Members, today we are debating a motion on the CSP's rural agenda, especially of agricultural areas. We'd like to make some comments. The first... we share almost the whole place, we will abstain at a point where you propose to create new structures, not because we are against it, but because we understand that it may not be necessary and, therefore, we will abstain from it. But we would like to put various questions on the table. The first is that in the rural world the whole economy is neither agrarian nor will it be agrarian, and that, therefore, it is true that we need to deploy the law of agricultural areas, and it is true that it is necessary to recapitalize and revitalize the agricultural and branching sector, but it cannot be the palar palar to generate opportunities for the territory, because our priorities are no longer the same, and because the agricultural sector will not be able to absorb all the opportunities that must be able to generate the rural world. And because when we say that young people have the right to return to our people and to build a life for our people, it does not mean that we have the right only to go there to be pages, but we have the right to go there to develop the activities that we can develop in the territory, which must be more than one. And the second question I wanted to talk about is that urban space also has agrarian spaces. And that's what we're talking about a little bit. And we talk a lot about it with the PSC. And today I'd like to talk about it, because in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area we also have a lot of agricultural space to develop the law of agricultural space and to develop economic opportunities that preserve agricultural space and preserve the territory. Because in Gavà they do not cultivate more than all, and we have the plan of Ponent, two-centhectares that they make..., on natural territories, on the only biologic connector that there is between Gavà and Castelldefels and on two-centhectares that are also agricultural territories, we could preserve the law of agricultural thickets. But there they do not ask that the law of agricultural areas is preserved, there they take advantage of the urban plans of 76 to develop urban projects outside the nine laws. Or we could talk about the twenty-six gratacels that you planned at the Hospital, at Can Trabal, about the last agricultural space that was left in the whole city. And we could keep going through all this tactical contra-urbanism that you're doing to Collserola and around the natural spaces of Barcelona's Metropolitan Area, which basically makes you go through the margins of agricultural and natural spaces, of the few agricultural and natural spaces that were left in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area. And I am saying this because, in the same way that the whole economic alternative to the rural world should not be agricultural, we do need to preserve agricultural areas in the urban environment because of their biological importance, because of their importance in terms of food sovereignty and because of their importance in preserving natural areas before the speculative vortex that some try to build. Because it wasn't too many months ago here that we had to decide in a week, in a hurry and currents, without any environmental impact report, what we did with the delta of the Llobregat, and never again knew anything about it. And now it's the Olympic Games of Pirinaeus, going to Pirinaeus to build infrastructures that last the Olympic Games, because if there will be no 2030, 2040, 2050, if all those infrastructures will serve something for the economic development of the rural world. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We don't care so much anymore, the Pirinaeus. And so, what we say is that the urgent thing is not to think about how we spend the public funds that will come and that we will have for the next few years, to think and to plan the ecological transition, to think and to plan the development of the rural world and to think and plan the food sovereignty of our country, but what we need is to do it without betting on projects that are fallen, that destroy the territory, that destroy opportunities for land grabs, and to do it by preserving the few urban, peri-urban spaces that we also have to do agriculture in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the Lower Llobregat, especially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.55.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.56.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen... this young man who presents us with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units is a necessary young man, but he shouldn't be. First of all, to recognize that from our parliamentary group, from Ciutadans, we share the strength of the proposals contained in the initial motion, but that, in our opinion, it has not improved greatly with the incorporation of the government's or the CUP's proposals. From Citizens we believe that this young man, even if he is necessary, should not be, because all and every one of the steps that this young man is taking back have already been debated in this Parliament, have already been approved and have been given a democratic mandate – this one, must be, not beaten, as they so much like the government. A democratic mandate that even happened in the form of law, Law 3/2019, of June 17, of the agrarian spaces, to which this young man refers. It is necessary because, as always, the government of the Generality only looks and is willing to complete, even though it is with a small mouth, the mandates they call democratic, but they are absolutely undemocratic. Separatism is very difficult to hold a political and institutional position, even though it is a little democratic, isn't it? As directly affected, allow me to refer to an anti-democratic act that I suffered yesterday in this Ple. In the first few minutes of the plenary meeting, the President of Parliament strongly violated, once more, the rights of my parliamentary group in the person of the spokesman, Mr Martín Blanco, and also my rights as a Member. One more time, the president of this Parliament went beyond limits and violated the democratic mandate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.57.0	Mr. Alonso, you are asked to cinder the contents of the young man, who is on the agrarian world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.58.0	Yes, yes, Madam President, but before I mention the anti-democratic fact that I suffered yesterday. The Rules of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.59.0	Mr. Alonso, I'm calling you, please, to the question, to return to the question you have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.60.0	Well, it's more of an exhibition of reality, of the tarann of the president of this Parliament, who only cries out to the question when she doesn't like to hear what she's listening to. In any case, yesterday he committed two very heavy regulatory violations. And, besides, he lied, with light and tachographs, reading, misreading, making a comical reading of a concrete article of the Rules of this Parliament. Again for what makes the party interpretation that separatism makes democracy and democratic order, which forces everyone, but, first of all, those who have any institutional responsibility. Returning now, yes, to the young man, the first point should already be part of the government's action, of this government that's been going on for a decade. Developing a law that is in force since June 20, 2019 – almost three years ago – should be a reality in government action. It's very easy to read if they don't apply, if they don't rule according to the law. We are talking about a law in force, an inescapable warrant; a law that is one of the creatures of the former Government of the Generality, that of Mr. Torra, which is the same Government that now carries a small change of chromosomes. Point 2 also refers to the same law and calls for technical work to be started to create a public instrument that promotes the actions needed to boost the productive activity of agricultural land alone. According to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, this public instrument already exists; it is part of the Government of the Generality, and in this legislature is the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. They don't shut up any more instruments. The government does not want to talk about concrete plans, and this makes the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to move forward admit the issue 2 of the government's groups. Still, we'll vote for it in three of your quarters. In fact, there are questions that should be left, because there have already been debates and approvals in this Parliament. But we don't believe in the land bank formula. I don't know what they're playing, gentlemen of the PSC. Do you want to be okay with everyone? Do they need to get along with the CUP now? Have you thought of any candidates to run this bank of land? In any case, we won't give him any support. The initial point 4 could still count on our support. The transaction is only one more of the same: empty words and do nothing, as always. We will not support it, because it does not cease to be an alibi for the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.61.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.62.0	Thank you, President. To translate, first, that we will give support to point number 1 and point number 3 almost throughout its writing, except the 3.d– now I will explain why. These are those points that speak of support policies for the generational, formational, adaptation to changing circumstances. In 2, 4 and 5 we will abstain, basically because, even if part of the wording can be assumed, they translate an interventionism that we cannot fully share; in some cases, for example, even setting up new public control structures, which obviously would not serve to re and only add expenditure, which is all the contrary of what is needed, in the same way as some policies of habitat regulation that we consider interventionists. And we'll vote against 3.d. Before he was talking about the land bank. It is an outdated concept and, moreover, has historically Marxist reminiscences. It is logical that the CUP planted a list of these characteristics. What's surprising is that I accept the PSC. Or not so surprising, because, well, we already know of this ideological flexibility of the PSC depending on its conveniences. Therefore, I insist, there are some points that we share, but others that we cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.63.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, once again the honourable Member, Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.64.0	Thank you, President. Not the whole rural world is agricultural, as not the whole agricultural world is rural, as Congressman Ferro says. In this sense we have built this young man. We have always talked about the agricultural world, its complexity, and we have proposed a follow-up of questions that we believe can help improve, so the young people's income to the sector, the greater availability of housing, the deployment of a law that we have endowed ourselves with. We have agreed to talk about "actions that contribute to the generational replenishment of the agricultural world instead of talking about" plan, which is the heading of point 3, because all the actions we foresee have been accepted and will be able to pull forward. Therefore, it is a question that we can hear as the synonym. We have also accepted that the economic, technical and social monitoring of land-use incorporations encloses the land bank, because it is foreseen to the same law, and, as Mr Cornellà said, was approved in a seat in this Parliament. And we have come to a deal to incorporate all government agents and administrations into putting resources, whether in the form of urbanizable soils, whether in the form of habitat rehabilitation or in the form of construction of our habitats. And we couldn't finally give up believing that a public instrument created ad hoc would be the ideal way to drive all these actions. Let us reiterate our thanks to Mrs Alba Camps of Esquerra Republicana on behalf of the groups supporting the Government; also to Mrs Dani Cornellà of the People's Unity Candidature for the enrichment of the debate and the facilitation of agreement. And, finally, Mr. VOX, is it immoral to make proposals to improve agriculture? [[Widow's remorse.]] Did you say it's immoral to make proposals to improve agriculture? Actually, a little more dictionary and a little more territory. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.65.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be at midday, once the number 20 of the order of the day is solid. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the implications and measures in the energy field]] [[302-00132/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the implications and measures in the energy field, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. And it has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí. [[Pause.]] [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, what's going on is that it's the power of the deputies, to be on their way to the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.66.0	You let me get some air. I was convinced it was the twelve. I was in a meeting. Excuse me. Uh, som-hi. [[Rialles.]] I've come currents, huh? Go on, som-hi. President, Councillor, Members, Members... I want to begin the intervention by thanking the papers that different groups have presented, because I think they help us improve the text of the motion that we have presented, and also the predisposition that always shows the spokespersons of different groups to get to transactions. As I said before, at the other debate, today's energy, energy transition and uncontrolled increase in prices are centering on the debates; that is, an uncontrolled increase in the price of the energy model and made worse by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. That is why, because of the urgency and the need to help who needs it most, we presented the inquiry to Councillor Jordan and today we present this motion. We know she's a long man, but we think she's a triple intent. On the one hand, the renewal of existing commitments and consensus in this chamber so as to accelerate the implementation of policies to achieve the energy transition and to do so around a different energy model, more just and will be raised, participated, distributed, decarbonized, denuclearized and oligopolis-free. The second motivation of the movement is to provide these consensuses and commitments of the tools to last them in term, and to do so from our government, from Catalonia, not just looking at the State. And, to do so, we incorporate the need for acceleration, that the government accelerates the processing of the energy transition law, as well as the creation of public energy. Thus, to provide us with a territorial plan of renewable energies that is made from low to high, is to say, with the territory, with the social agents, with the economic agents and with the local world through the local offices for the energy transition. A territorial plan of renewable energies that is a basis of consensus and that is useful for the whole country, because the country sees renewable energies and energy transition as an opportunity, and not as a threat. Also accompany the local world in the pulse of renewable energy and in the municipality of distribution networks or in opposition to very high voltage lines. And, in a third block, we claim to the State, yes, that it is doing the work that is not being done, and that it is facing not only the inn in the wake of urgent measures, such as the royal decree that is currently being discussed in Madrid, but that goes further there, because the State is taking structural and transformative actions so that, in the place of petting, it transforms, and in the place of pointing out the current oligopolistic model, I create a new one as the Catalan government is driving, where at the center are people, citizens and citizens, and not the benefits of big businesses. I'd like to highlight a few. To change the priority of the energy model, therefore, one of the measures could be to make the criteria in the energy communities, such as France; fix a topall at the gas price; direct management of state-owned hydropower plants, which would have an immediate impact on the price of energy; assume total tolls and charges to avoid the impact on the bill to the citizen; increase the IDAE fund to help the self-consumption projects; apply a tax to the cell's fallen benefits to compensate for the deficits produced in this marginalist system, or increase, among others, the taxation of companies to large electricity groups, which have had benefits of over €6,000 million. We want this young man to be used to demand from the State everything that he is not doing, he said, but also assuming our responsibilities and building from the Catalan model, with the foundations laid for the Jordanian decree, which was precisely done to give environmental guarantees, information, participation and the objective of changing the energy model. Today, among the papers, the PSC, for example, proposed to it modification papers posing everything that the government brings to the royal decree. And that's not what it's about; because we don't want to look just over there. Just what we denounce is not only that this decree up late, but that it renounces making a transformation. In my last question I said that the economy of fossil fuels has protected the great oligopolises and that the great oligopolises will protect the economy of fossil fuels until the end; and all this, with the complicity of the system. That is why, as I said before, despite the fact that there are emergency measures that are welcome, we reiterate that they arrive late, that they are short in time and in the abst, and that we hoped..., what we needed was a package to reform the electric market sector, that we accompany urgent measures, that is, transformation and not pieces, go to the root of the problem and not stay on the surface, radical and not just aesthetic. In summary – and I ended up – we renew commitments, we have tools and political consensus; we raise the need not to punctuate, but to transform the energetic model, to put it to the service of the working class and the product fabric of the country, of autonomes and of pimes. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.67.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.68.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Miri, let's start by saying that this young man, Mr. Villalbí, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left immediately the government led by Republican Left to advance neither more nor less than in the implementation of renewable energies, with the same vocabulary, with the same argumentary... And, of course, one in the end is the question: and, instead of devoting time to drafting motions, why don't you act? And I went so far as to welcome you, if that's all right, but I think Catalonia lacks more action and there are more motions, Mr. Villalbí. Because, look, if anything else, in this Parliament, I won't say what's left, but it doesn't need any more, it's renewable energy documents. I have scarcely been a member of Parliament for a year and I have already counted up to seven, between documents, reports, motions, resolutions on green energies... But, in change, there is one thing missing in Catalonia – I'm sure you know and I'm sure you share it –: they are missing, in fact, renewables, new power installed in wind and photovoltaics. Because in the last two years, with governments of Junts-Esquerra, Esquerra-Esquerra, Esquerra-Convergence, we are stuck to 1,270 megawatts – for two years. Therefore, fewer motions and more actions, fewer announcements and more megawatts. Because, in addition, if in some matter urgency does not allow us to broaden the terms with politics and relationships is precisely in renewables. The year 1984 was the first wind turbine to be installed in Vilopriu. Today, however, we are in Spain and Europe. The IPCC's latest report indicates that we are going late and poorly. And if there's any issue that makes us urgent, we're in a hurry, it's precisely renewable. I, therefore, so many good things present without objective facts, measurable– megawatts–, in place of motions. So the first thing I wanted to say to you today is that Catalonia has to move away from the political secret of renewables – in fact, you were talking about the Jordan decree – and make a great country pact to implement them once and for all. It's not just for the planet, it's not just in terms of climate action, it's also in terms of opportunity, progress and work. The price of energy has disappeared, yes, the last few times, for different reasons, and I am convinced that the Congress of the Republican Left Deputies has the opportunity to give back support to measures to correct it. Actually, today, isn't it? They have an opportunity today, or they have, I don't know, because they've talked about making a stop. This "citizenship and peppers go before any other question, Mr. Villalbí, where is it? And considering, moreover, that we are in Parliament, I believe that this government must also make some self-criticism and think that it can do more respect. In fact, our parliamentary group – you in fact are – has submitted up to dissing points, dissing ideas, dissing proposals. And I read some of them, because they didn't accept one. The first: reduction of the VAT from 20 to deu_per_cent; exemption from the tax on the value of the production of electricity, which is set_per_cent, to zero; reduction of the special tax on energy from 5.1 to 0.5; extension of the electrical social good, extending its coverage to more receivers; reduction of the 8 % of the tolls for the electrointensive industry; direct measures for the import of 12 million euros to the large gas consumer sector; accelerated temporary procedure for the implementation of renewables; liberalization of a deu_per_cent of the capacity in the transport and distribution sectors, which would allow the development of up to set gigawatts of capacity for self-consuming; introduction of renewable gases, such as renewable hydrogen, to such an emergency, to the European government's authority in the field of energy. Said, Mr. Villalbí – said. Not one. Really? Is there really no such thing as one year for the benefit of Catalans and Catalans? And we won't come back with the same coin. In fact, you will see that we are voting in favour, abstaining or against according to what we think may or may not be beneficial for Catalans and Catalans. But, look, Catalonia's pes de Espanya in renewables is a set_per_cent in wind and a three_per_cent in photovoltaics. If you were able to reverse this situation, you wouldn't heat up so many high-voltage lines or look for so many culprits out there. And, finally, we have at these moments a huge and short delay. We need institutional collaboration, and in the European framework I think this is more obvious than ever. And if this government so republican, so green, so progressive, in this scene of crisis is not able to react, a lawful conclusion that we can reach is that it does not want, cannot or does not know how to boost the energy transition, with all the negative consequences in the ecological and economic spheres that it has for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.69.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.70.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... Well, first of all, say that we will vote in favour of this motion, of almost all points, because the points we have presented, as the deputy of the Republican Left said, have been accepted and incorporated so as to improve and make our vote more comfortable. The only one that we have decided to abstain..., in point 9.b, not because we do not agree, but that in another previous young man has already been debated, this subject. Yes, we think, therefore, that it is well the measure of decoupling the gas from the electric market. Obviously, this will automatically lower the price of electricity, but the marginalist system is still in place, and that's like a piece, isn't it? As we explained before, the marginal market that causes is like a casino, a roulette, and a game that today can lower our electricity, applying this measure, but we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. Obviously, we will abstain, but not because this young man is not well done, but... In the end, this point we ask the Government of Madrid, because here we don't have the competitions. Well, you've structured this very correct place with what the Generality is and what the State is. So glad that Esquerra Republicana urges its own government to implement all these measures, that many of them have already been approved in this Parliament before and that they rely on the broad consensus of a majority of Parliament, as can be the elaboration of the law of energy transition, as can be the sectoral territorial plan of renewable energies, right? , a plan that we have always said, therefore..., totally necessary, that, in fact, the only one who knows us hard is that it is not done now, because that means that while doing all this work, they can pass..., the forecast is two years. What will happen is that it is the energy companies, the oligopolises, the ones who are telling us, the ones who are proposing to make solar or photovoltaic macro-projects where they are most interested in them, not on... Since this Parliament, with the participation of the local authorities and the local authorities, it has not been decided which are these spaces, which is the way, therefore, how we want renewables to apply to our territories. And while we don't have this Plater, it's the oligopolises and the wind lobbying that we have in the country that are deciding where these projects are going. For us this Plater is absolutely essential, and if we can accelerate and, instead of two years, in question of months, it would be beneficial for absolutely all of our country. Public energy, better than accelerating its creation; all our support. As we have already proposed that it is obviously created, therefore, that acceleration is a priority, and the more clearly we are aware that some concessions of hydroelectric power stations are over and these will have to go back to public hands. We need this public energy that you want for the generation, but also a just catal public system that you want because from the beginning to the end, from the generation to the end, to the commercialization, it is a just system that does not constantly damage, as is happening, small businesses, businesses, media companies or citizens. No to the MAT. Of course, we'll also give it support. We can't hear a green energy transition where projects are made to the Aragó, for example, as it is going now, and that through macroinfrastructures – in this case, therefore, high voltage lines – it continues to intersect the territory to bring us green energy. That doesn't even have a few. What we have to do is work together to apply our own energy transition, our production of this energy, without depending on other countries. And obviously, as we cannot allow this MAT, we cannot allow other MATs, such as that of the Jungle, which have nothing to do with renewable energies, but with an outdated model of energy transport. Obviously, support must also be given to the municipality. The taxes on the benefits fallen from the cell must be imposed on the big energyists, who have been supplied for many months with the suffering of families, businesses and small businesses. Therefore, we will give support to this young man. And thank Eugene for his ease. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.71.0	And then, in the name of Junts per Catalunya, has the word the deputy Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.72.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Leave us a motion on energy to fight global warming, but above all, in this case, to reduce the price of energy. And there are many points, but basically classifiable according to the immediate – measures long, short and medium-term – and according to the competition – measures that depend on Europe, Spain and Catalonia. And we are convinced that we must urge Madrid so that, therefore, it can resolve its inopportunity and its hardships in Catalonia – and we are doing so – and we must urge Brussels to do its dues in the energy market – and we are doing so too – but above all we are concerned about those measures which depend on us, which are related to the energy transition, which is the great solution of foundations for the cost of energy, and especially those measures which are short-term. Because we can make great speeches about great goals for thirty years now, and they are essential, but really what it is to start walking with firm and responsible country, now and here. Therefore, a first point that we have presented is to talk a lot from today of the twelve gigawatts of renewable electricity that are falling to us by 2030 and perhaps not so much of the total decarbonization of 2050, because it remains a long way and makes the responsibility dilute. And twelve gigawatts in eight years means a gigawatt and half a year. That's four megawatts installed a day, which is equivalent to a windmill a day or six football fields of solar plates a day by 2030, and with the wind and sun map we have in Catalonia. And we want to do so with energy sovereignty – therefore, without the Aragó MATs and without nuclear energy, which is not in absolute green. I, at a rate of 1_million euros per megawatt, therefore mirin, 4_million euros of reversal each day. So, oligopolis, no, but companies, yes. The self-consumer? That's a priority. And that's why we've come up with a message to boost local energy communities. But, unfortunately, small projects will not be enough: the seventy per cent – and we know it – will have to be covered with parks; in co-responsibility with the territory, but with parks, as it is, in fact, Europe. And all these are numbers that we need to be able to make people hear, and make them participate in the benefits of energy transition from demand. And the young lady stays out of..., or some themes, also phonental, as is, for example, biogas or as is, for example, shared thermal energy. Therefore, clear objective: 2030, and with external follow-up – do not do us for – because in this way we can do pedagogy to everyone. Because while the planet was scalding, and COP26 told us: if we exceed certain lists, it will be irreversible. Of course, we would vote not at point 2, which they have traded with the UPC, because it is understood that it will be possible to market energy in the public domain, and this, as you know, is a red line for us. Then there is a _second packet of questions– and the motion contemplates some – which relate to the Spanish energy oligopoly, which derives in opacitate of costs, in tempts to competition, in rotating doors, in comparative tolls of medium tension, in also connections..., vetoes of connections to distributed projects, but above all, it derives in search of entrances. And the Canadian company the other day denounced it in the plenary, and, therefore, welcome, but today it has returned: they are the names of the fallen benefits of the cell. While the families do not arrive at the end of the month and the companies have to stop the production or even shut down because of the bill of the light, it turns out that it is calculated, according to Pimec, that this oligopolis, if it is not « the price of the gas, which, erroneously, conditions the price of all the electricity, could come to accumulate 76,000_million euros. As they have done, insufficiently, in Europe's earlier agreement with Spain and Portugal, they can reach €20,000_million in external benefits. They think that in 2019 the energy oligopolis has had some benefits of 3,000_million euros, and only in these first three months of the year does 10,700. So, listen, you're already taxed on this so you can transfer the money from this oligopolie, from this sparrow, to the peppers and to the citizen. I, on top of that, the government, announcing ridiculous aid of EUR 488 million to companies. I suppose it's because you, socialist and popular lords and lords, have to spend a lot of euros spying on our furniture with Pegasus. It is imperative to remove the Spanish brand from the Catalan electricity system, and, in fact, it is imperative to remove the Spanish brand from Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.73.0	So, after the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.74.0	Thank you, President. Deputies... Today we are faced with a typical proposal by Esquerra Republicana : full of mantras, toasts to the sun, insurmountable measures and hollow words. An initiative that aims to deal with measures within the energy field, but which is summed up in three words: ideological, irresponsible and ineffective. First. They demand the urgent need to create a decarbonized energy system and achieve the goal of energy sovereignty. Good. Can you explain to us, then, why you do not listen to the European Commission? In Europe they have already recognised nuclear energy as green at least until 2045. Moreover, Brussels has described atomic energy and gas as necessary energy sources for the transition to a generation without CO2 emissions. Conclusion: either you are smarter than the technicians of the European Commission or simply this proposal is further proof that you give equal weight to the energy poverty of thousands of Catalan families and that all you are interested in is continuing to sell your totalitarianism, your false republic and your green ideology to fill your pockets with taxpayers' money. Second. Esquerra Republicana dares to talk about energy oligopoly, but forgets the real oligopoly that destroys the lives of Catalans: the oligopoly of separatist elites, the oligopoly of progressive political parties, which divide the pie of the titanic effort of workers and entrepreneurs who open the blind every morning. Gentlemen of Esquerra, bearing in mind that a high percentage of the electricity and gas bill is due solely to taxes, how do you have the little shame of announcing a rise in taxes to nuclear and gas companies? Do you know who will be the main victims of this measure? I will tell you this: the Catalan families, those that you despise and constantly harm with your ideological delusions and political folly. Third. They call for speeding up procedures to pass an energy transition law, when they actually want a law to transfer huge amounts of money from the middle and working classes to the progressive elites that drive the climate agenda. I mean, transition, yes, but leaving thousands of Catalans behind, stealing their labor income. Fourth. They continue to strive to spend money on public energy. It is not enough for them to see the experience of their communist partners in the City of Barcelona: not only does it not work, but it brings with it more ruin and energy misery for the citizens of our region. Finally, if you want to achieve the goals and end energy poverty and strengthen our energy sovereignty, start by giving back to Catalan families and businesses the more than 300_million environmental taxes that fatten the arks of their chiringuitos; promoting a widespread tax reduction to lead disposable income to the most needy families and companies; betting on nuclear energy, the main guarantor of achieving in the medium and long term a cheap and independent energy supply. Put aside the 2030 agenda and take over the Spain agenda. Yes, the Spanish agenda, which is the one that really cares about all Spaniards. In short, their separatist policies only bring division, ruin and insecurity. Go back to wisdom, leave your delusions and worry about the real problems of Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.75.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.76.0	There's one thing that I'm always surprised at, that's this fervourous enthusiasm in the free market and in continuing a line that started in this country from the very beginning of the 2008 crisis, and that doesn't work. One says: "The price of the light will be lowered if we lower taxes. And we lower taxes on the light and fuel, and they push the prices. And the conclusion is: we have to lower taxes, as if taking functions like this. And yet, fifteen years ago we unpacked the welfare state, fifteen years ago... well, forty years ago, already, we privatized the energy system, we deindustrialized the half of the country, and there are still people who doctrinarily, right? Like those who chase the Verge into the desert, they say we can go on and finally see the light. And in the end, what we see is a country of misery. I believe that, if the war in Ukraine has put some lessons on the table to take note of, there are elements that form part of the strategic sovereignty of the countries, the states and the European nations. The first – obviously, we never comment on it, but I think it's important – is the saying that it was popular that Europe is an economic giant and a political dwarf, and at times like these, it certainly does not have an autonomous and independent position as Europeans before the conflict that we have seen between Russia and Ukraine, before the invasion of Ukraine, infects us all and places us at the door of a conflict that, like Europeans, we have never defended and that attacks our interests head-on. And, therefore, diplomacy and international politics, and the ability to hold sovereign positions before the conflict, is also an element of strategic sovereignty, as is production. We have experienced forty years of deep deindustrialisation in Europe which today leaves us at the expense of international markets at a time when we need to reflect our economies. And here in Catalonia we have small expressions of how to run the way backwards, as is the National Pact for Industry, which surely today would require a more ambitious look. And, obviously, food sovereignty – in the previous motion we have not spoken – and energy sovereignty. We have located ourselves in the middle of a conflict without the ability to supply our own citizens with just prices energetically. That's a fear, but it's also the evidence that all these changes in our countries weren't as cool as they were painting them. And today, when we think of the electric market, we all know, as a lesson, that it is neither as free nor as just nor as effective as they proclaimed all those who privatized it and who were placed in the life-long administration boards, and, that, above all, these electrical systems do not safeguard the interest of the city and the general interest, not so alone at a time of crisis as we are living today, not so alone during the pandemic we were living and still living in. And, therefore, the alternative here is to build public and democratic spaces for decision-making, production, distribution and consumption. But not build them as anecdotes, as those who migrate from a world that is profoundly unjustly fan, heroically, a fair market cooperative, or fan experiences of justice that as much can be placed on the margins of how the world works, reminding us that there are alternatives that are possible, but we have to do it as the central project, to build a different country. I really liked the Republican Left Movement, I have to say. First of all, because it does not only urge the Government of the State – which is a very common area of refuge in this Parliament, which is to say: "We have a brown one, and therefore I dedicate fifteen points to it –... but also to the Government of Catalonia. We practically share all the points – there are some points in which we will abstain, but we do not want to focus our debate here – but especially in what you have to see with the need to build policies that vagrant against the free fixing of energy prices in a crisis situation. And that means energy topalls, and that means taxes on the benefits of the electricity sector. And, in the second term, there the Government of Catalonia has more dues accumulated and has more dues to do, than it is in planning the deployment of renewable energies on the territory, able to build a decentralized and sober energy model and that guarantees the right to energy to the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.77.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.78.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... MP Villalbí, I have already said this before, when we discussed the previous motion on energy presented by Mr Canadell, so that at least in this proposal there is a certain..., or at least there is a will for your government to make or adopt a series of measures and commitments. Another thing is that we share them, that we certainly can't do that, in some cases, even though it's also very difficult, many times, to face utopia, to say the least. In the end, in some cases, what they are exhibiting here is utopia or the difficulty of bringing to term many of the concepts that are explained here. We – we have said it many times – never go against evidence and reality: the climate change and the climate problems we have in our world exist, and I believe that the 2030 agenda, therefore, has to be implemented. And it's implemented right now, but it had to start implementing a long time ago. And that has not been done, the Government of the Generality. We do not deny..., we are not denying the reality, but what we believe is that it is not being managed, we are not effective – or at least we have not done so until now – at the time of managing this transition. It has been talked about here, but it is true – and in this case, the Socialist Group, and we also see it – that we are at the forefront of renewables, and we were innovative at the time. What happened on the road? Why couldn't a proper program be implemented? Why haven't political consensus been found to do so? And it's obvious that we've also given ourselves figures that we need to get to that fifty percent renewable by 2030. Possibly the dues are, say, hard to settle down. I know a little sceptical, the truth. Because, besides – and that is also true – we spend our parliamentary life discussing motions. And, in fact, you come in many times to do things that you don't finish doing. And allow the mask, say, exposure, but I, in this case, what I've seen during these years is basically that. They think they have to be realists. And this transition that has to be made in different years... and above all the end, 2050, we will have to do it, and that is what we must say, therefore, with the presence of energies such as natural gas and the current nuclear open. Because, in the end, we're talking..., today we're talking about the price the citizens have to pay; in the end, this has an impact on the price of the citizens. What we cannot finish is: "You, gentlemen who are going to work every day, who are going to open their business and who are going to continue seeing how they lose power, will eventually pay for this ecological transition or this energetic transition, in this case, that the different governments of the Generality have not been able to implement or have not been able to implement these years. And now we're in a hurry and you're going to pay for it, but you're going to have to do it without it... I think the energy mix we're keeping or we're going to keep until now is what it is, and we're going to have to implement it at different times, as you say, in fact, the European Commission. In the end, the reality of Spain's energy problems has been converted..., so, with the war, the formula has been found that nothing has happened before the invasion, the cruel and cruel invasion of Russia into Ukraine, that nothing has happened before and that does not have any importance, and that debate has been transformed into a very religious debate. And, in fact, I wanted to comment to Mr. Lopez, who before..., nothing, a comment, that when they talk about VOX of this climate negationism, they remind me very much of a Roman emperor who was told by Julian the Apostate, who, in fact, came after Constantine the Great, therefore, dictated the edict of Milà, we already allowed religious freedom to the whole empire. And he decided to apostate and turn paganism against all the reality of the empire, which was already Christianity. And they remind me many times of Julian the Apostate, in fact, with this denial of reality, which I think is not true. In the end, Julian the Apostate, who was neoplatonic and created a religion, including, even though he was pagan, against Christianity, died in the Sassanid wars and had to leave this, say, intention. And Christianity, in fact, as you know, continued. Therefore, deputies, deputies, allow me this historical comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.79.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.80.0	Thank you, President. Well, the current situation, dramatic, tragic, for the invasion of Ukraine, also involves an overdose of realism. I am very afraid that my interpretation of reality will be exactly what Mr. Lucas Ferro has proposed, because, from this point of view, the current situation is what he does is to highlight his concept of energy transition. And it says in evidence not to be cruel and to say in a ridiculous way: neither adapts to the real world, is full of ideological prejudices and, besides – and it is the key of everything – is clearly insufficient in energy production, say what they say. Simply, with what you propose, it does not come to the twenty per cent of the energy needs of a modern Western society, say what they say. The rest has to buy out, and we all know what it means to buy out. They even have the courage to quote France in their exhibition, and, well, they do it very often, don't they? France is not self-sufficient energetically for its policy of energy transition, not – in fact, the French are doing a lot of laughs, in private, with that of energy transition– ; France is self-sufficient energetically because it has fifty-eight nuclear power plants – fifty-eight. And, in fact, Macron, the month of February, announced the construction of fourteen more reactors; that is to say, seventy-two. And, besides, they prove to be much more alive than we are, because we share the risks, but they only take the benefits, because being antinuclear talking about potential accidents when you have fifty-eight nuclear power plants at the side is showing sub-optimal intelligence, frankly. Finally, simply say that we will only vote in favour of the points that refer to the rights of the Regants and consumers in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.81.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, to position himself on the exams, has the word the Lord Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.82.0	Thank you, President. Well, start with a surprise that we didn't just hear, Mr Vergés, because of the opposition of the Juntes group at the second point, when this point incorporates two of the three elements that you were talking about and we were working to deal and in no case talk about public energy. I mean, if you want to play it that way, do it. Mrs. Paneque, you were surprised at the presentation of this young man. I believe that here – we are in Parliament – the parliamentary groups..., our function is to control the government, and, in fact, this is called'separation of powers'. Maybe if I applied it to you, you'd know how to separate the legislature from the judiciary and the executive, which we have a lot of doubts about, in the Spanish State, when they do. The other thing is that they're talking about urgency. And we totally agree, but we think that with urgency it's not all right. Because with the real decree you're making in Madrid, so all democratic controls of information, public exposure, consultation, and elimination of environmental impact studies are jumping. So it seems to me that you with the territory dare a lot, but with the oligopolises I don't seem to care. And the third question in reference to this is that you say that the young lady is only looking for responsibility outside, when I think I have made it very clear that we are looking for responsibility to our government, but we also want to demand what you have to do. And he wondered that our vote in Madrid... I didn't know if it was next to the peppers and the autonomies and the citizens, as I said. I think you're wrong. What they can't do is pass on to us the responsibility for the work you don't do – neither do nor let us do. I'd say, turn the electrical sector or oppose the oligopolis, and they'll keep us at their side. They make politics brave, left-handed, and they'll keep us at their side. And in the vote also to the royal decree, stop spying, continue to negotiate, stand at the side of politics. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It is possible to do politics, to negotiate and to resolve the political conflict. They do politics and they'll keep us at their side. That's what we do when we vote: be at the side of the people and the peppers and the autonomes of our country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.83.0	All right. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into refugee policies]] [[302-00131/13]] So, after the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to produce a substantial amount of the next item on the order of the day, the 20th item on the order of the day, which is the next question to the government about policies for the gathering of refugees, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.84.0	Thank you, President. Well, I would say that in all the motions of this morning we have spoken so much about the war in Ukraine; so let us speak of a variety more, in this case not only of the war in Ukraine, but of one of the consequences that are also suffered in the war in Ukraine, but in many other contexts. First of all, give thanks to the people or parliamentary groups with whom we have submitted papers and it has been a simple negotiation. We've improved a lot, we're not sure, this young man. A young man who can all read it, and so I'll try to do it now. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't know if I'm going to get lucky, but I'm going to try to make a little thought, too, around the corner, right? Often there are situations that, for one reason or another, impact more forcefully on public opinion. It passed 2015 and 2016, also until the beginnings of 2017, with people trying to escape from the conflict in Syria. It passed this agony, with the people trying to escape from the Taliban's entry into Afghanistan. And now we go through with the people trying to escape from Ukraine; now, concretely, in a way we would say that exceptional and with an operation without precedent of rebuttal of the people who escape from the war between Ukraine and Russia. In any case, we criticise it, because, in any case, we would say that for the first time is surely the right answer to be given to people fleeing conflict and with a very important humane emergence that there is. Indeed, there is a humane emergence, but it does not just pass through Ukraine, this humane emergence. On the 24th of February, the day the war broke out, the visas of Afghans who were found in Pakistan to come to Spain and be able to ask for asylum here were put to a standstill. Did the emergence of people who escape from Taliban fascism disappear on the 24th of February? So I'd say no, that he didn't disappear, that he's still feeling the whole thing going on. But, in any case, they are no longer giving these dreams to Afghans, for example, who are now feeling evacuated, are being taken out of the Albergas and the accolade centers of Germany. To put it another paradigmatic case, Poland..., has coincided in the time that a group of no more than three hundred, four hundred people, of the Kurdish majority who were trying to access the European Union to seek asylum across the border with Belarus..., therefore there was a deployment by the Polish forces of more than twenty thousand soldiers trying to prevent the entrances of these people..., to shoot the one who entered it – so, to death. It contrasted strongly with another point not far from the Polish border, where there was an international deployment and also civil solidarity with the people leaving the conflict in Ukraine. More than four million people in just over twenty days came out across this border. Four million; that's... they come to us a few months ago, and any of us have said we're lame, 'cause they're telling us that it's impossible, right? So many people. But here too there is one element: why in March 4_millions? Because there is a very hard conflict, it is obvious, but because there has been a policy of open doors. The medical difference and the difference with northern Poland is great, it's spectacular. Now, can I get everyone out of Ukraine? I can't leave everyone. There is a series of collections, such as trans women, who cannot leave the country. And we've seen it with our own eyes, don't let it out. And there's no one, no entity, no administration, no government, who's denouncing it. The same way that no man, no man objector of consciousness can come out. Mirin, the only one who died on the Ukrainian border trying to escape the country is a man, a man trying to get out of the country and his own Ukrainian army shot him to death. A man throughout the war, not for the effects of the war, but at the border. Before yesterday to the border of the Spanish State – and now we are already going, therefore, to a border a little closer – twenty-five people died, of whom seven were born. Yesterday night, six people were killed trying to get there... 4,404 people, 2021, deaths on the Spanish border trying to get to Spain. In short, the motives for exile are diverse. And when one nationality is prioritised to another, it can be for two reasons: one, for a strategic interest, a political interest, or the other, for racism. And what is teaching us about the conflict in Ukraine – which we are doing very well the policy of gathering – is that we are unravelling the miseries that we have not done until now or in parallel. Therefore, this young man..., and also through the papers of the different parliamentary groups I believe that it has been very complete, in this sense, and that, therefore, what he deals with, therefore, is to take advantage of this current context in order to try to improve the policies of colliding our country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.85.0	Now the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.86.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... So it's really one of those motions that will surely pass a few times in this House, where both the motion that stands at the beginning as the different points presented..., you can agree with it, that there is a common feeling that we are living in a situation of humanity crisis, and also with this very relevant reflection, I think, of Congressman Wagensberg, that it is a humane crisis that has now taken on a dimension that can be interesting even to learn how to respond to humane crises, because it is posing on the table what it is possible to do when there is a humane crisis, when there is a refugee crisis that runs away from a conflict, and really the capacities that the institutions want to answer. And, in this case, it turned. In the case of Ukraine, both at the level of the European institutions and of the Spanish institutions and also of the Catalan institutions, there was an unprecedented response that certainly never existed, as in a recent history. Before a conflict, before millions of people flee: open doors. And not only that, but also safe lives, that's one of the things we've been carrying for a long time. The safe lives are basic, claus and phonental because people don't die on the road, which is what we are actually seeing on the southern border, which is what we are seeing on the Mediterranean every day. If we don't guarantee safe lives, the people I run away because the life that awaits them there where they live is worse than the threat of losing their lives on the road also ends up dying. Therefore, I believe that the one carrying us the war of Ukraine is this reflection. When we want, we can, and when we want, we activate a directive, which many years ago it was possible to activate it, which in less than twenty-four hours, in a very agile terms, gives people papers, a guarantee that they can start making a new life to the place they have come to until they can decide whether they want to stay here or whether they prefer to return to their country of origin, if the conditions allow it and their vital option is this, too. Therefore, from here we can speak of how it is the answer before refugees fleeing the conflict in Ukraine, precisely to speak and to begin to really pose on the table which should be this answer for all refugees, come from one to another, have the color that they have, have the identity of genera that they have, have the political poses that they can have, as in the case that is said before, of men objectors of conscience who do not want to make war, who do not want to fight in Ukraine and who do not have this opportunity to flee from the country. But what's also important is to think about how we're doing the most in front of this first moment of the big welcome, isn't it? The same department said that there were approximately twenty-thousand people who arrived in Catalonia and made their first entry to the Spanish State through Catalonia, who were first welcomed, at this stage 0 and at this stage 1. But then come the stages in which these people are already to bring Catalonia to life. I mean, come from where they come, come from Ukraine, come from where they live in Catalonia, and that's obviously a challenge for the institutions. Suppose a rep because they are people who arrive without guaranteed basic rights. Many of these families have families that they can go to, because they are their family, come, friends of the same Ukraine or that they have a network, like, for example, all the families that have collide for a long time with children and children of Txernóbil, but this collide from solidarity will also have a limit and also have limitations, because in the end, and with the crisis that we are experiencing, it also assumes an economic burden for all these families. Because the families, come from Ukraine, come from on come, who must make their life here and now, in Catalonia, must be able to have access to a salvation, they must be able to have access to education, but they must also be able to have access to tickets, to a job, to tickets that allow them to have a life worthy of time, we insist, that decide to stay here in Catalonia to make their life. The young man talks about all these general reflections, which we share, about how all people should be gathered together and, above all, have a particular influence on people, right? , with this cross-sectoral focus, of those people who suffer most from their gender identity, their ethnic origin, their origin and their nationality, but we also believe that since the Generality an effort must be made to put resources there. We understand that we need to ask the State what it needs to do, that it is this transfer of powers and this transfer of resources, above all those coming from the European Union, but we also believe that the Generality has a challenge and that it needs to put in place these necessary resources. We have already expressed our concern that in the current premise..., and it is one of the things that we did not like, and we have already said: the premise of the Immigration Area of the Department of Equality and Feminisms was frozen, the assumption did not increase. And it is from this department and from this assumption that all policies of gathering with resources appropriate to the Generality of Catalonia are taken away. Therefore, we believe that there must be a presuppositional effort and a coordination effort with local authorities through the programme contracts, which are the ones that are giving this first response. So, yes, let's make it more flexible and ask for the flexibility of the deficit target, but then we spend it on policies, and not to get away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.87.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the words of Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, we are in front of a young man, and I have already announced that we will vote for the majority of points. In other points, we would like to make it clear that the competence over welcome is of the Government of Spain, and what must be done is to work together with the joint administration. As you know, the Council of Ministers of the European Union limited the application of the European directive on refugees to nationals of Ukraine and nationals of other countries with long-term permits to Ukraine. And what the Government of Spain did at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on March 6th is to add other collections that were left out of this European directive. And we are the country of the European Union that activates before this directive of gathering, and, moreover, that extends it to nationals of Ukraine before the 24th of February, to nationals of other countries with temporary residence in Ukraine, to nationals of Ukraine in an irregular situation in our country, and also extends it to all members of their families. Besides, the Spanish government did, on March 10th, simplify the procedures, and you know it. In twenty-four hours, practically, all these people through the process of the Spanish Government – and we have to say that only six other countries of the European Union have done so – they have done this extension of rights, not only in rent and schooling, but also in psychosocial care, in work care, in healthcare, in the validation of the driving licence or in legal assistance. The consequence of all this is that thirty-thousand persons of Ukrainian nationality have arrived in our country since 2021 until now, the majority with this function of the temporary protection system. And this is the way, working together all the administrations – the ministry, the autonomous communities, the assemblies – to pull this project forward. And it is in this sense, too, that we will vote in favour of point 9, but making clear this conviction that the system of attachment is an exclusive competence of the Government of Spain. But it's what needs to be done, working among all of us, because the repte we have before us is a repte of a great magnitude. We have all visited the Creed – the Reception Center, Attention and Derivation – and the people who are taking this approach, all of them, including the Red Creed, tell us the same: the most important is the coordinated action of all administrations. I believe that this is the key, at this moment, to work in coordination with all the administrations: the European Union, the Government of Spain, the Government of Catalonia and the joint ventures. We could share part of the intervention of the representative of the commons on economic issues. At the first meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we spoke to the Councillor. The councilwoman compromised 0.7 in terms of cooperation. At last it couldn't be, but I don't think we need to talk about this right now. At this point, we have a very big problem about the table that I think, as I said, is being managed properly by everyone – in an appropriate way by everyone – and, ultimately, this is the way. To be proud of the response our country is giving before this crisis in Ukraine. Indeed, there are other conflicts that affect us, and, in this sense, we could also share a good part of the motion, but it is also true that, in the case of Ukraine, it is a country bordering the European Union and surely needs a greater effort on the part of all the countries of the European Union. I insist, in any case, this is the path, the joint work among all administrations. We will vote mostly on the joint motion, but there are other elements that create conflicts of competence that we cannot assume. Many thanks, Madam President, Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.89.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.90.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, the Catalan Refugee Assistance Commission has made it very clear: "The right to asylum is a right recognised to the Constitution, it is a regulated right through the asylum law and it is included – which is most important – in the 2007 EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. Therefore, it is not a question of humanity – although, obviously, there is a human dimension – but of a right, a fundamental right. Thus, everyone has the right to seek protection outside their origin, country of origin or habitual residence, and to enjoy it in the event of fleeing a conflict that puts their life in danger or of having well-founded fears of being persecuted for reasons of ethnicity, religion, nationality, political opinion or belonging to a particular social group. The papers we've presented on this young man go on this line, to make sure that the young man actually recedes this fundamental right. Following the recommendations of UNHCR, refugees must be given the same rights and basic help as any other foreign person who remains resident, including certain rights from which all people enjoy. Refugees have fundamental civil rights between which they find freedom of thought and movement, the right not to be subservient to torture or degrading tracts..., the same economic and social rights as I possessed any other individual. All refugee persons must have access to medical assistance, all adult refugee persons must enjoy the right to work, and no child refugee should remain without schooling or be barred from prostitution or from joining the army. As I said, the papers that we have submitted, and which by chance have been accepted, have remained to make the common sense, the principle of equality and non-discrimination to the writing of this young man, because he did not have it. Because the original wording was a shameful show to approve the creation of first- and second-hand refugees, without denouncing themselves. In fact, in the previous intervention we have seen how the Socialist Party justified this hierarchy of refugees with apologetic pilgrims. A parliamentary group that supports a council that claims to be transformative in feminist policies and equality cannot afford to allow this political practice, the same way that it is not possible to speak of intersectionality and at the same time mismatch it in focusing on the policies that carry them. What focus, counsel, cross-sectional is what addresses the sources of violence in a compartmentalized way and hierarchy them? Who keeps putting the gene in the front, the schisheteroma in the center, with the outside? This can only be done from the most absolute cisheterowhiteness, and it is shameful. The councillor cannot be Barbie's house with various accessories according to the international day for which the photo is to be taken, and the least that can be done is to recognize these limitations and not to sell speeches that are not able to defend, which is very obvious in campaigns as we are seeing with this proposal to take the policies of gathering only to the refugees of Ukraine. And that is why we have presented these papers, to eliminate this hierarchy of rapes and oppressions, which, in an international approach, must be understood as interlacing and indestriable, which affect people in different contexts, with different identities, with different socio-political expressions, in the reading of these identities of very different ways, and, therefore, they must be treated equally, but from their complex identity, which has material effects on their rights of access to a life worthy of very different ways, but at the end they have effects, both at the end and at the end, and they cannot be hierarchical in any way. We therefore welcome the fact that we have accepted all and each of the points we have put forward, and that we are trying to make them recover the sign in the political proposals that must guarantee equal treatment, which, let us remember, is the mandate of this advisory body to which the proposed parliamentary group supports. Obviously, we will support all points of the motion with the final wording, because we consider very complementary and necessary the contributions of the common regarding material, resource, to be able to bring forward these policies. Thank you. Good morning. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.91.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.92.0	Thank you, President. Today, taking advantage of this debate, VOX once again strongly condemns the atrocious Russian attack on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. We demand that Russia immediately stop the invasion, remove its troops from Ukraine and respect international law. Millions of people are fleeing the horror, the bombs, and the hell that war entails. Many of these people are among us today, and we have a moral obligation to help them. I am going to try to bring down the debate, and more so after the intervention of the Member of the CUP, who was talking about cross-sectional cisheteroblanquitudes, and I am going to talk about things a little more earthy. I said it the other day, the one who talks to them has three people of those at home – three –: Anya, Iana and Timothy. Nine years. We've gone from five to eight, at home. We've moved from a large family to a supernumerous family, from night to morning, and that's how we've been for a few weeks. And collaborating, as Congresswoman Segovia said before, with the association És per tu, of children of Chernobyl, for eight years. We know the thing, we don't need to be explained, and we know perfectly well what the needs of those kids are. As Mr Wagensberg said the other day, they are indeed war refugees who do flee a war, who have not assaulted a fence or assaulted our police to enter our country. They need to normalize as soon as possible... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, you said it the other day: "You have to differentiate, you said, I saw it in a video. They need to normalize their administrative situation as soon as possible in order to have a normal life again. And what happens from the viewpoint of the host family? Well, hundreds of procedures: consulate, generalitat, state, town hall... Mr. David Pérez said he was doing well. No, from the family's point of view, I don't have that feeling. There is an endless and infernal bureaucracy that can be done much better. If you ask these people..., hey, they don't want to put a big burden on the families that welcome them, they're pretty grateful. And of course they could use some kind of financial support to cover their maintenance, clothing, and food costs. And that's not coming, that's not coming. It's okay: solidarity is, if it comes or if it doesn't, but, of course, it wouldn't go wrong. More than sixty days ago the war began, on February 24, I think I remember. There's not a hard one coming for any of the families. Here we are saying that we are doing very well. It's fake – it's fake. They want to learn Spanish, because they know that it is a language that opens the door to the world, that speaks it more than 500_million people in the world. There's no help for that either. They ask to speak Spanish, and nobody here helps them with that. Some volunteers, fortunately, do take their time to learn the language. And they need, logically, in this process of inclusion, especially psychological help, depending on how they have suffered the throws of war in recent weeks. And in all these matters, the experience I can give you, personally, is that you're not doing things properly, okay. I have no doubt about the good faith or the good will of Mrs Cervera or the DGAIA, who do, perhaps..., in short..., have good intentions, I cannot deny it. But, of course, it's not coming, that, to families. There is no coordination with the municipalities, there is no support. They arrive as day as today and take three months to attend to them in the Fira. Three months. Now the deadline has been somewhat lighter. You can't say you're doing well. So, well, some of the points that you raise, we will vote for them, because they are consistent with all these issues. Any help will be well received for all those families who welcome those twenty or thirty thousand people who have been fleeing this vile war from Ukraine. And we will vote against all these issues that have to do with the policies that I believe are not close to the need of these gentlemen, which was said earlier by the spokesman for the CUP. Above all, let me refer to the cis, straight, cross-sectional and political whiteness of these which you place even in the soup, logically, we will vote against. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.93.0	I, finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.94.0	Good morning, President. MPs, Councillor... Today we are debating a Republican Left Movement on policies of gathering refugees, and, obviously, it could not be more topical, taking into account the war in Ukraine, in Europe, but indeed, from the Junts Group for Catalonia, we would like these policies of refugees to be for all refugees, not just for white people, with blues and reddish eyes, like those who have to embrace those from the extreme right, but for all those refugees from all over the world. And when we talk about refugees, we talk about gathering and talking about the defense of human rights, and of the defense of human rights to end totalitarianism, because it is obvious that in the countries where there is war there is no guarantee of human rights, but in the countries and societies that are around this war of Ukraine neither are they giving the conditions of guarantee of these rights or respect for human rights. And it is that, look, yesterday, in collecting the Catalonia International Prize, the philosopher and professor of the University of California, Berkeley, Mrs. Judith Butler, referred to these border areas, to these borders, whether they are symbolic or national borders, where horror is practised, where there was a constant violation of human rights, with the advent of the extreme right, to countries like Poland or Hungary, where there were violations of the rights of the LGBTBI community or the rights of people who are not, for example..., so it was said before the Republican Left Company, conscientious objectors or trans people. It is for this reason that we will support the movement, as we call on the European institutions to ensure that they respect the right of asylum, human rights, and that they end up with this growing discrimination, promoted by the extreme right, but tolerated by the European institutions, which are turning into institutional racism and institutionalization... Yes, I speak for you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. Catalonia has always been a land of concentration, and it will always follow. Above all now, before these speeches of the extreme right and before the normalization of these speeches, both here in Parliament – and here in Parliament..., and thanks, President, when you stop them, but... – as in the Spanish State..., there is the danger of normalizing them, with pacts, with shameful governments that are averse to retrograde policies, retrograde policies that are against gender policies, that are against the rights of the LGBTI community, or against male or sexual and reproductive violence, and that cannot be tolerated. "They will go to war, if necessary, to defend their traditional values," said Butler himself yesterday. But the Catalan society has again shown that it is a society of gathering, that it is a society of which we are proud to defend human rights and to give cabuda to all refugees. That is why we would like, from here, to give thanks to all the people who have gone to Ukraine, to the border; they have brought their private cars, vans, even paid planes to help those people who are fleeing the war and have arrived here and they have given them a rest and even to eat. But now it is time to assume responsibilities on the part of the administrations of Catalonia, on the part of the administrations of the Spanish State and also on the part of responsibility with the administrations of the local world, which have an important role and to which we also appreciate their role, that of the local administrations, the assemblies and other local entities. We are familiar with the ingenious task of the Government of the Generality of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, but also from the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Departments of Enterprise and Work, Health and Social Rights. Because colliding means sharing, promoting human rights and also offering tools to accommodate people who have just arrived. That is why, for this reason, from Juntes for Catalonia we presented two ideas, which were accepted, because we found that there was a lack of explicit reference to knowledge, to teaching, to learning from Catalan language in the new years and the guarantee and follow-up of the schooling of children and young people so as to give the maximum possible continuity to their academic curriculum. Because Catalonia has always been and will always continue to feel a land of entanglement, and the català is the palar of this civic and inclusive nation that guarantees equal opportunities for everyone. Many of the refugees who have just arrived here in Catalonia will end up having their country remain Catalonia, and we would like them to feel Catalan from the first day, from the first moment they arrive in Catalonia. And I end, Madam President, with the clear will to improve all refugee and asylum procedures by asking the European Union when it is necessary, when the rights are not respected, and by demanding the deployment of all the resources necessary for the Catalan management of the reception of refugees. We will vote in favour of all the points of this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.95.0	Thank you very much. So, after this turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.96.0	Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to start by thanking Mr Ruben Wagensberg for his work in the service of the cause of international solidarity, in the service of human rights; in the service, in the end, of the humanitarian cause which he probably defends more than any other Member in this Parliament. I want to make an explicit recognition of your work. Political life..., public life is not only political – it is not only political –; it is also many other things. And, in this regard, I think it is important that we recognise this kind of thing among ourselves, Members of Parliament from different backgrounds. And I want to continue with the recognitions. First of all, something I said the other day in private at the meeting to which the Government of the Generalitat called us. President Aragonès called us to a meeting at which I was present, for example, the Councillor of Feminisms, Mrs Tània Verge, who is also present here, and I made an explicit recognition of what my group considers, and I personally, that the Government of the Generalitat is up to it in this dramatic circumstance as is the war in Ukraine. From this point of view, it seems to me justice, it seems to me of absolute common sense and wisdom, to recognize Mr Aragonès for having set up a working group to address the crisis in Ukraine from our autonomous community. I think it is also important to recognize that work. And, of course, we have no pain in recognizing the good management that the Government is doing of this crisis. Moreover, there are elements of this motion that seem very considerable to us, very reasonable – those that have to do with the humanitarian aspect of the motion itself. There are others that we cannot vote in favour, because there are considerations that are, of course, exorbitant for this Parliament, and I think we have to respect the principle of competition, and there are things that are not the competence of the Government of the Generalitat, are not the competence of the Administration of the Autonomous Community to which we represent in this Parliament, but are either the competence of the General Administration of the State or, even, supra-State powers. That is why we will abstain in everything that goes beyond strictly autonomous powers and vote in favour of what we think is above all justice, reasonable and in accordance with our competitive framework. I want to make a special mention of what Mrs Madaula has said. I really do hear Mrs Madaula, the representative of Junts per Catalunya, speak so much about the extreme right and forget about things that have been said by his party's unspeakable representatives, such as Mr Torra, the former President of the Generalitat, when he was talking about « mad beasts of those we speak Spanish..., to me seems, at least, curious. I do not know whether the representatives of Junts per Catalunya who come out to this rostrum look in the mirror or are aware of what their party represents and to what extent their party has had leaders who have embraced truly nauseous speeches from the point of view of respect, from the point of view of human rights and of the consideration of all our fellow citizens as beings worthy of the same respect as you or VOX's deputies. Recently, before you went out, Mr. Gallego came out, and –oh! – reality is very complex. And Mr Gallego, from VOX, a dangerous ultra-rightist extremist with whom you can't even talk, has welcomed a family of Ukrainians. That's humanitarianism. That is humanitarianism, what Mr Gallego has done. And just as I recognize Mr Wagensberg's humanitarianism, I am able to recognize Mr Gallego's humanitarianism. [[Greetings.]] In this speech, which I realize will certainly turn out to be complex and probably unintelligible for those who see the world only in manic terms, in terms of confrontation, in terms of ‘your death is my life, in terms that we could hold young people in terms of international relations, I want to end with a reference to an involuntary protagonist of these days, who is the Minister of Defence – since we are also talking about Defence – Mrs Margarita Robles, who has been vilified in this Parliament. Yesterday Mr Matías Alonso, my fellow Member, was expelled from this Parliament in an anti-regulatory manner. He was expelled when the reasons for expelling a Member are only those in which a Member has insulted other persons or institutions of the State, and yet a Member of the UPC referred to Mrs Robles as the 'guardian of the sewers'. There were many contempts, many vilifications to Mrs Robles in this Parliament, and I, from here, want to claim the courage of a policy that has been able to say what many citizens think in our internal forum, we comment in our internal discussions. Many good citizens, reasonable people, we think what Mrs Robles has had the courage, the audacity to say it publicly. That is why, from here, I want to claim to say the same thing that is said in private, to say it in public, as Mrs Robles has done. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.97.0	Okay. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.98.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's very simple, I guess, reinterpreting words, reinterpreting statements, surely with political motivations. Mr. VOX, what I said the other day, and I come back to say here today, is that your training certainly comes to say that many other people – among whom I certainly do not include – think and what other administrations – and also here we can possibly self-critically – execute, that it is a de facto difference between the people who come from Ukraine and the people who come from other conflicts. Certainly, Congresswoman Basha was talking about the human rights card and the motives for which, therefore, the right to asylum is receding. There is not only war, between these rights – there is only war. And to the deputy of the Socialist Party, who said that we surely have a special responsibility because Ukraine is bordering on the European Union, I would say that there are also other countries that are bordering on, as is the case with Morocco, even as is the case with Senegal, in which, moreover, we have a certain responsibility, because we have ships, there, making the espoli del fish; or to the border with Belarus, if people arrive from Kurdistan, on which, certainly, our bombs fall, of Spanish manufacture and commissionist sale, also, on behalf of the monarchy through Spain. Therefore, it is certainly not the only motive, including returning even to Ukrainian people. Before the 24th of February there were five thousand petitions of asylum to resolve the Spanish State, and of which it is resolute– of Ukraine alone, I speak, in a conflict that does not begin now–..., the norm-u_per_cent were rejected; magically, now all are accepted, as Congresswoman Susanna Segovia said, in less than twenty-four hours. Therefore, there is no humanitarianism here, as it is not at the house of the Member who spoke, but here there is a clear political interest. Therefore, refugees are used with a political interest, in the same way that it is ugly, in other words, with those of Turkey. And if you don't... the data support it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-04-28-2902.99.0	Thank you very much. So, over with the debate, I'm guessing we're still going to proceed to the vote on the motions that were filed this morning, which are 16 to 20 on the order of the day. [[Pause.]] Let us therefore begin the voting process, which naturally also incorporates the compromises and compromises that have been accepted. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the economic impact of the war (continuation)]] [[302-00134/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the economic impact of the war. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 90 votes in favour and 41 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 111 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 99 votes in favour, 32 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 73 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 47 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 64 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 56 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 73 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 69 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 69 votes in favour and 62 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 73 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number 11. The vote begins. This point was also approved, with 109 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 13 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the special work centres (continuation)]] [[302-0128/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the special work centres. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 126 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 60 votes in favour and 71 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 120 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. Finally, we vote on the rest of the points. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 131 votes in favour. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of Law 3/2019, of the agrarian spaces (continuation)]] [[302-00129/13]] Let us now vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the incorporation of young people into the agricultural world and the development of the law of agricultural spaces. We begin by voting point number 1, with all his letters. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 120 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 41 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 79 abstentions. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. This point has been approved, with 118 votes in favour, 11 votes against and one person who does not vote. Let's vote points 3.b and c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number 3.d now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 124 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the implications and measures in the energy field (continuation)]] [[302-00132/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the implications and measures in the energy field. We first vote points 1 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 49 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point four now with letters to and b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 34 abstentions. We're voting for point 7.a. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point 7.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 34 abstentions. We're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 37 abstentions. We're voting 9th. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting 9b point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 72 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 48 abstentions. We're voting now on point 9.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We vote for point 9.d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting for point 9. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point 9.f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 89 votes in favour and 42 votes against. We're voting now for point 9.g. The vote begins. This bridge was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting at 9:00. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 37 abstentions. We're voting for point 9. And the vote begins. This point was approved, with 88 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting for the 9.j point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting point 9.k. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 83 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 37 abstentions. We're voting 9th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting now at 9.m. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting 9th point now. The vote begins. 9.n– 9.n. We're in a place to know that we know who we are and we're voting for it. It's 9 o'clock. This point was approved, with 72 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 47 abstentions. We're voting 9th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 79 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting point 9.p. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 1 abstention. We're voting now for point 9.q. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 9.r. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 2 abstentions. You're out of line. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into refugee policies (continuation)]] [[302-00131/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into refugee policies. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 120 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point three now with all his letters. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 81 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting points 5, 6 and 8. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 81 votes in favour and 50 votes against. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 16 abstentions. We're voting 9th. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 13 abstentions. We now vote on points 9.b and c. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 129 votes in favour and two abstentions. We're voting for points 9.c and d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting for point 9. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point 9.f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 131 votes in favour. Let's get a little ahead of schedule, as some Members have not participated or have not spent all their time. We have been managing to try to advance the late schedule, but unfortunately, it has not been possible. So we suspend the session to two-quarters of four. Thank you.
