ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.1.0	Good morning. After this photographic moment here in plenary, let's start the session. [[Statement by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokespersons on fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and other central sensitisation syndromes]] [[401-00018/13]] And we welcomed the members of the family platform and the Catalan Association of Fibromyalgia and Other Central Awareness Syndromes. And we will begin this plenary session by reading the Declaration of the Assembly of Speakers of the Parliament of Catalonia on fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and other central sensitisation syndromes, today it is the day. "Today, May 12, marks World Fibromyalgia Day and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and other central sensitisation syndromes, which affect more than 250,000 Catalans. The Catalonian Parliament again expresses its commitment to this commemoration and also its recognition and support to all affected persons, who are still often caught up in the scourge of misunderstanding and discrimination, both motivated by a lack of awareness of the impact of these chronic diseases on the daily life of whom they suffer. Between the end of 2007 and the beginning of 2008, in full winter and in just over two months, sick people, the majority of women, devoted little energy to collecting 140,000 signatures in order to be able to pull forward a popular legislative initiative, the ILP for the attention of fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome in Catalonia, which ended up giving place to Resolution 203/VIII, approved unanimously for this Parliament. Some of the requests for that resolution have been addressed, but it has not yet been fully implemented. More effort and resources need to be made, and the operation plan for central sensitisation syndromes need to be completed, so that attention to fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and multiple chemical sensitivities can reach all regions of Catalonia with the fairness and quality that the affected citizens need and deserve. Thus, it is necessary to enhance research so as to improve the knowledge of these diseases and to be able to find specific treatments that improve the quality of life of the sick. This evening, there will be a new edition of the Catalan Campaign in blau, promoted for the Catalan Association of Fibromyalgia Affected and Other Central Awareness Syndromes together with the Platform of Family of Fibromyalgia Affected, to which have joined hundreds of assemblies and institutions of Catalonia. Many buildings and roads in our country will light up in dark blue to give visibility to these diseases in solidarity with the people affected. The Parliament of Catalonia once again appeals to the empathy of the civil society and the public authorities of Catalonia and invites them to join this day, to show solidarity with the difficulties faced by the people affected and to work with dedication and effectiveness so as to continue to advance in the search for and dissemination of knowledge of these diseases, and also in understanding and in the health and social approach they need. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the criteria for establishing rights restrictions in a pandemic context]] [[302-00136/13]] And now, at the fifteenth point of the order of the day, we pass the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the criteria for establishing restrictions of rights in a context of pandemic. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, and, to expose it, has the word of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... Well, as we've already moved a couple of weeks ago, basically in this young man we wanted to focus on the criteria that had been used to establish restrictions on phone rights in a pandemic context. And we did it from reports from Catalan organizations, international organizations – such as the union, with Amnesty International – and from various reports, articles, jobs that have taken place from the United Nations. And we did it at a time when we've supposedly returned to this normality, but we don't think we should forget everything we've been through and get past it from points or in an acritic way. We believe that we need to remember the causes and consequences of the pandemic, the measures and results and the effects that they have had. And, above all, in this concrete debate, the effects that they had on the fundamental rights. It also seems to us to review how they were implemented, how they were taxed and what social costs they had, and what result... In short, we believe that it is essential to make a critical review of the policies and actions of the Government. Basically, for a very simple reason: you have to avoid making the same mistakes. And, in addition, we think that this also encourages a debate that is more necessary in the case of Catalan society. I need a background discussion on the effects of these measures. I need a background discussion on the effects on the fundamental rights and their effectiveness. And I need to do it because that's how it generates trust in society. And I have to do it because that's how it is facing pseudo-scientific or individualistic, ultra-liberal and extreme right-wing positions. And if we don't, we're giving away all these positions and we're allowing them to move forward, all these positions, because we're generating social mistrust. From here on, from our position we see that on the part of the Government there has been a lack of transparency and clarity with which measures have often been implemented, which have changed without clear justification. And, besides, there has been a lack of transparency and a lack of clarity on the part of the bodies that have made decisions throughout this process and throughout this path. It wasn't simple, it wasn't easy. We certainly faced situations that were unpredictable, but in any case, we cannot disconnect one question from the other and we cannot excuse or store this situation. So what we are proposing is very simple measures that we believe Parliament should give a broad support, because we believe that it is the way to be able to make a critical review and to deal with all these positions, as I said before, ultra-liberals, pseudo-scientifics and extreme right. Basically, what do we propose to Parliament? We open a debate around these measures; we open it now, that we are not in a context of medical pressure or need to implement measures. We have a debate that can take place – because, beyond the headlines, we have to make it happen, and, if it is not concrete, it remains in res – in, for example, some findings, joint and necessary, of the committees of Justice, Health and the Interior, with the appearances of advisers and advisers, with the appearances of expert persons, and, therefore, that it is possible to carry out a parliamentary task of reviewing these measures. Looks like you're small. For what he does to the Government, it seems to me that he is of the least, too, that he can make a comprehensive report, in a three-month period, explaining and presenting what extreme conclusions of the measures he took, of the effects he had on the fundamental rights, and, therefore, what conclusions can be drawn from the perspective of the future. And, for what he does to the Department of Justice, a very clear proposal that, in fact, was already on the march, that is, that the group of experts and experts that they were reviewing was put back into operation, from a position of affectation of the phonenal rights..., and that they were working in reports, in blurry, the affectation that they had the measures that they had taken in a pandemic context. It seems like it's minor questions. It seems to me that they are fully acceptable questions for Parliament as well as for the Government, and we would only understand that we have not given ourselves any support if we want to make a point of a little bit forward, to say the least, and with the risks that this entails both for the effects on a future, that we can interview with the same stones, as it does for giving to certain discourses and generating social mistrust. Another issue that we also raise and that seems to us to be of use is that a training space is opened in the field of public administration in terms of the rights of use, because they can work cross-sectionally in different areas. And, finally, a question that seems to us to be a question, that is, that there is a criterion of respect for the fundamental rights for which it does the imposition of sanctions linked to restrictive measures. What can't happen is that, under the pretext of the pandemic context, they limit phonental rights that are not limited in the measures they understand. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – such as the fact of sanctioning to participate in demonstrations; such as the fact of sanctioning to participate in concentrations. And then we go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.3.0	Thank you very much. Then there is the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Joaquim Jubert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.4.0	President, councillor, deputies... The pandemic of the covid-19 will have forever marked our lives, because we have lost friends, close people, family – in my case, my mother. Some of us spent days in hospital rooms, and the city council lived weeks of confinement and closure of its ordinary activities and anguish for the future of its work. Therefore, the first thing we need to do is to recognize the exceptionality that has touched our lives; to pay tribute, again, to the health professionals, to the bombers and to the safety bodies for the effort that they have been trying hard to protect us. We ask for the appearance of up to three councillors, and from here we want to recognize the work done by those who were in the previous government and those of the present, particularly those who occupied the departments of Health and Interior, Social Rights and Justice. And let me mention, in particular, the names of two professionals, such as the mad deputy of this Parliament, Isabel Ferrer, Director of the Process, and Manel Pardo, Director of Emergencies. It is true that they have restricted rights and freedoms, following the pattern of the countries around us. And, in doing so, what he was looking for was to ward off the virus, reduce hospital attention and protect us all, and, in this way, avoid the increase of the infection and the name of the dead. The model opposed to which the Community of Madrid used, on which the name of the deaths was more than double that in our home. We cannot recognize the lack of transparency in the management, as the first point of the motion states. Of course we are in favour of a critical review of the measures, because we do not have to draw conclusions, before an experience with which we want to live and which, if we go three years back, we have considered unimaginable. Even now the Xina kept 25 million people and continues to affect the world economy with disruptions to the merchandise trade. It is also good that Parliament has a debate on the measures adopted, as the third point states, and that the Councillors of Health, Justice, Interior, and Social Rights, too, are present, but we cannot support it, because the measures taken by both the Government and Parliament were in accordance with the laws and decrees of the State. In addition, the vaccination strategy and all the updates that mark health policy in the face of the pandemic are directed for the State and also for the purchase of European Union cows and authorisations. Moreover, the measures counted on the approval of the Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice on the basis of its suitability, necessity and proportionality. Point 4, "which is intended by the Government to make a comprehensive report within the terms of three_months of evaluation of the policies due to term..., if it is to be exhaustive, the term of three_months is not realistic, but it can be reiterated that during the various states of alarm the ability to make policies by the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament to legislate was very limited, for which we have already explained. The fifth point, "that the Department of Justice activates the group of experts to prepare a report on guarantees of the rights and public freedoms in situations of emergency. The group of experts was formed informally in the past legislature. The first meeting took place on June 2020, and later documents sent to the members of the working group were sent by the end of 2020. So it's hard to reactivate it two years later. I, the band, the heads of its members took no responsibility to the Department of Justice. The parliamentary groups that were asked to do so were given the relevant documentation that GAIP resolved following the forecasts of Law 19/2014. Finally, point 6, "that the School of Public Administration opened a line of training with the officials of the Government of Catalonia on rights and freedoms. This legislature will also present a draft law of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia that allows the establishment of a new standard with the objectives of transforming public administrations into a better service for the citizenry. Finally, we have already said that the possible retaliation of the rights was produced to ensure a higher good. It was not only the freedom of demonstration that was restricted, but, in general, the freedom to walk freely through the street. And, therefore, who for any reason, legitimate or not, did not do so and foolishly punished must face it out of solidarity with the rest of the city that we wanted to respect the measures adopted, for a lot of inconvenience and including exaggeration that we might seem once over the situation that we wanted to live. Therefore, we would like to thank those who accepted the item and that the term is fixed in six months, so we would ask for a separate vote on the points of the motion and vote against the points of the first, third, fourth and fifth points, and in favour of the points of the second, if and if, and if, that incorporate our points. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.5.0	I, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Thanks to the Member of the CUP, too, to present this motion, and, as a minimum, to be able to make this debate in the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia about rights, where they will always find us, obviously, at the expense of defending rights, the fundamental rights, all rights, not just one or the other – some of us want to sort out, sometimes, who are the rights that we can defend –... so that we can have this debate. You always go ahead, therefore, from this compromise of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left in the defense of rights, in the defense of being able to win us over and protect them, and, therefore, fight, fight and work against those who have violated or may have violated rights. This young man certainly says various questions in this sense, and, as I said, with the compromise in defence of rights. Proof of this is also that this..., the Government of the Generality, the current, but also the previous..., but, moreover, this current, therefore, has a specific area, also, within the Government, the Directorate General for the Promotion and Defence of Human Rights, which, certainly, together, obviously, with the Department of Justice, also ages for this. But in this debate, we believe that, in order to be fair, we must be able to reschedule, we must be able to re-recognize the complexity that we have experienced, not only as the country, but also as the whole world, with the pandemic provoked by the covid-19. The world is going to stop. This obviously affected, first of all, the lives of people, and that is why I want to make a special record for all the victims of the covid – the people, obviously, who have lost their lives; the family members, who have suffered – but also an infinite recognition and gratitude to all the professionals, from doctors, midwives, nurses and nurses..., and all the emergence professionals and people who endured the basic services, the essential services, in order to make life go on. They think you're important, don't they? , not only do this recognition, but, as I said, this recognition of the complexity of what was supposed – unawareness, at first – the health emergency, the impossibility of finding the material in the first days and the first weeks to protect the lives, and a change of priorities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Also here we want to make a recognizance of the work of the public servants, also of the institutional representatives, from the members of the government to the representatives at the level of the local world – mayors, mayors, governors, governors – who were also, therefore, in the trench, on the first line, supporting their lives and living in every town and town in the country. We do not strictly share your analysis; yes in some terms; in others, no, like the question of lack of transparency or some observations that you make, but yes, we do share, therefore, the need to be able to make a critical review, to be able to implement more training also in the field of the rights of citizenship to public servants and also, in the following term, to citizens. "Yes, to review, therefore, everything that I allowed us to improve. But again we want to emphasize that, when decisions are to be taken..., or, in all the decisions that are to be taken, there has always been the weighting of the balance between the rights: the right to life with the right to salvation, obviously; the right, obviously, to be able to continue guaranteeing the rest of the rights – of mobility, of manifestation, of protest – but always seeking this balance between preserving salvation, between preserving life..., which is what we have been playing at those times. So, som-hi, let's look at what you need, especially to improve it, to learn from the face of a future. Obviously, not because we hope that we can re-create a situation of these characteristics, a global pandemic, but because it is obvious that the path of defence of rights is a path to go, that we must go forward. And, therefore, it's in this contest of rights where these revisions and learnings can also make us more prepared in the future. I would also like to end by saying that this government has given evidence, and I think it is clear, of this defence of rights. As, for example, with all the decisions that are being taken, to set an example, from the Department of Interior, with all the changes in criteria for such a way that, precisely, making the most fundamental rights – of protest, of protest – prevail instead of applying the law bites, that is, that it is precisely the law that does also violate rights. Proof of this, therefore, are the changes of criteria in the field of the Department of Interior, which must allow us – an example – to follow in this way of defense and the conquest of the rights, where we will always find them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.7.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. We've talked many times about the pandemic, its effects and its impact. And when we talk about rights... let's start another way. I would like today, which is World Day for Nursing, to thank these professionals also for their pocket, and especially for their pocket during the pandemic. As the Member who preceded me said, so did all the professionals. [[applause]] That in the first line they didn't only fight, but they went with us, that I think it's important. And we talk that when we're talking about rights, we're also talking about the rights to preserve life and our salvation, because we've seen that when we don't have salvation, we don't have economy either. We've also seen that this pandemic once more has made sure that so much we reject, that it's that the postal code prevailed more than the genetic code. And so, somehow, the most vulnerable have been more affected. And when we talk about the vulnerable, we talk about our big people, and we also talk about the increase in inequalities and incarceration above all in more vulnerable cities and barrels. In this sense, you make a reference to a series of reports relating to the motion you are raising, and, for example, there is no report from the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, the one that made an extensive analysis of it, and, moreover, talked about how it died during the first wave and how the great people died at the residences. I think we also have to preserve, when we talk about rights and freedoms, your right. We share the feeling of the young man: that he can analyze, review, and make it unprejudiced, the measures taken. And I also want to reiterate that my group has always supported the measures taken because it understood that we were in an emergency and in a public health crisis, but we have always asked, from the most absolute joy, that there was transparency and clarity in all actions, whether health, social or economic. And, therefore, welcome to continue the review that we can do. Anyway, I have to say that the government has not always been transparent. In this sense, we have expressed many times, for example, that, in economic terms, we still do not have so many audits, but also that at the time it was a use of Procicat as if it were an invisible enemy. Actually, Procicate is a platform for emergence, but it seemed that it guided our lives, and perhaps it lacked a much more... mechanism to make it more transparent. To analyze causes and consequences; also measures, results and effects. And also analyze the role of the citizenry, to which we must also give the grace, or the role of Europe, or the search for the open and the cows in a short time. I think... you've set up a series of mechanisms in this young man. We will not vote against it – we will abstain from it – because they carry out so many lives of analysis that I believe that, in the end, we will disrupt the debate. Because what can't be done is to create a committee of inquiry that in the background is to gather three legislative commissions to analyze the causes, and, at the same time, to make a ple for analyzing causes and effects and also as we do, and measures, and, after that, that the government submit a report in three_months... – neither in three_months nor in six_months. We think... if we want to do a deep analysis, we do it: we analyze causes, we analyze effects, we analyze things that we can improve. And in the things that we can improve for future emergencies, whatever they are – let's hope that few – there can be many things to improve..., if I speak of salvation, the Public Health Agency; also improve the protection of rights and freedoms, know how to combine the right collections and individual rights; really train all public servants, or actually establish plans of emergence that are adjunct to the current realities. I think we need to be able to make much more flexible, changing plans, but also that these plans incorporate something that here itself is also claimed, that is advertised, transparency and guarantees of rights in its precepts. That this is not a woman, because the emergence... is intended to stop, but, in change, it has no effect either..., which is the effect on the people. I believe that the pandemic has not given us a hard time for two years: we have lived between meetings, meetings of the Process, states of emergency and urgency. And what's certain – and in this I give the reason to Congressman Pellicer –..., the changes of government cannot break the thread of fact or that actions fall down with the legislature. Therefore, things must be able to deal with and address. We'll give support to the young man. We will vote in favour of points 2 and 6, abstain from points 1, 3, 4 and 5, and vote against point 7. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.9.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.10.0	Thank you, President. Commissioner, Members of Parliament, the management of the pandemic carried out by the Government of Pedro Sánchez and the Government of the Generalitat has been harmful from all points of view: economic, legal and health. The motion seeks to make known the causes and consequences of the pandemic, and we all remember how the Government of Pedro Sánchez, despite reports by the World Health Organization, which already warned in January 2020 of the existence of the pandemic, systematically denied the pandemic in order to be able to celebrate the fateful demonstration of 8 March, which was a massive contagion for all Spaniards. And after spreading the virus throughout Spain, the government of Pedro Sánchez did what? He locked us at home illegally, for ninety-nine days, from March 15 to June 29, when the descalation began. First they deny the virus, then they lock us up illegally, using an instrument – the state of alarm – that did not allow him to suspend fundamental rights and public freedoms, and that the government used, despotically, for the sole purpose of circumventing the parliamentary authorization prescribed by the Congress of Deputies. And it was VOX who defended the Spaniards and appealed to the Constitutional Court the state of illegal alarm, as he has done every time the government of Pedro Sánchez has jumped the law, because there is no constitution, institution or law in Spain that Pedro Sánchez is not willing to destroy to keep himself in power one more day, at the cost of yielding to the permanent blackmails of the separatists. [[Greetings.]] With the second state of alarm, the socialist government again jumped the Constitution by illegally delegating health powers to the autonomous communities. And again it was VOX who had to stop his feet in the Constitutional Court. And, in the exercise of these delegated powers illegally, the Generalitat acted with irresponsibility and lack of transparency. The scandals were countless. I, for some examples, will tell you that..., look, the purchase by the Generalitat of twenty-seven tents or inflatable hospitals for more than 1_million_of_euros, which could not be used for absolute negligence in their acquisition; the disastrous management of Mr Antonio Encinas at the head of the SEM, of Esquerra Republicana, which dedicated itself to delivering bonuses of up to seventy_million_euros to high-ranking SEM officials – high-end cars, taxis worth forty_ thousand_euros having official car, luxury hotels during the pandemic–; the ghost acts of Procicat and its absolute lack of transparency; the refusal to vaccinate national police and civilian guards, who have already recognized it, or the refusal of the UME to disinfect elderly residences for pure ideological sectarianism against the army. In short, catastrophic management of the pandemic at all levels. And since VOX we will make only two notes to this motion. First, not only the Government of Spain, but also that of the Generalitat, very poorly managed the issue of the pandemic and the limitations of rights during the pandemic. But, look, there is no need for three advisers or alleged expert groups, as the motion says, because the Generalitat has no competence to lead the fight against a health emergency. It is up to the State, not the autonomous communities, to lead this response to future emergency situations, as established in the Constitution. For example, article 116.1, regulating states of alarm, exception and siege, stating that it is for the Government of the nation to exercise the health powers during those states, which cannot be delegated, and to establish, where appropriate, the restrictions that may be imposed on the Spaniards. Article 149.1.16 provides that the State shall have the competence to establish the basis and coordination of health care. And, in exercise of these powers, the State, the government of Pedro Sánchez, already had to have promoted in the Congress of Deputies an updated law of pandemics, a law of health emergency, in order to avoid the recurrence of the chaos of its management – as, for example, has already done France – and to this day it has done nothing, which is another obvious sign of its absolute lack of competence. And, look, finally, we are going to vote against this CUP motion, because the CUP is precisely that radical, separatist and anti-system left which constantly attacks the fundamental rights of more than half the Catalans, which promotes the serious street riots in Catalonia day and day as well, and which has included even terrorists in their electoral lists. So if there is anyone in Spain who is unable to defend democracy and fundamental rights, it is you, you are the 'bilders' and you are the Catalan coupsmen. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.11.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.12.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, first of all, thank the group proposing the motion, because we understand that it's fully relevant, right? , which has the whole sense of the world and which helps us, therefore, to analyze, to reflect, to evaluate public policies after a scene of crisis, of shock, of emergence. As a matter of fact, Naomi Klein has been telling us for a long time, just like... she was talking about the doctrine of rock, how to use scenes of this type, of crisis, of terrorist attacks, of emergencies, right? , to promote certain policies as if there was no alternative, as if there was only one way to do things. We understand that, in front of this, that so many times has passed – without going any further, to the crisis of 2008 we saw ourselves here, so that there were policies of austerity as if there were no other ways –..., in the face of what it is to evaluate decisions, is to be aware of what has been done, is to analyze it and look at how we come out of this reality. And, here, another reflection, too, in more general terms: this idea of ‘returning to normality, which we believe is a mistake. That is to say, what we have to do is to take advantage of crisis and emergency situations as opportunities to produce transformations that are necessary. And this has to do with the analysis, therefore, of the restriction of rights and freedoms that is commented on in this young man, but it also has to do with questions of new forms of mobility, with the import of public space or with the import, above all, of public services. Therefore, learning from these situations of emergence and crisis to transform; that is, being resilient means being able to transform, and not wanting to return to a pre-requisite normality that we understand was not the most desired. Getting a little into the subject of this young man, we do want to do something about how decisions were made during the pandemic situation and who took them, don't we? It was a moment, basically, of a lot of power executed over legislation. And this I think is a first thought that we need to do: as the legislative power all along we have had little capacity, little intervention, I would say, and even little control capacity. In fact, in this chamber, I remember how... it was a rather active chamber, while other legislative chambers, before ours, were already more active, and it worked basically from decrees of the law. He was telling us the Deputy of Juntas before we came all the way from the State. Home, no, it's not true. It is true that there was-there was a first moment of much centralization, which later was corrected to a scene of more coordination. It is also true that, at first, the screenplay that was enough went right into the line of this limitation of rights. That is to say, when the army came out behind the government to inform about the decisions they are making, I don't think it was because the army intended to kill the virus, just because they were going to restrict rights and freedoms, and so it wanted to show the power that was behind it. Therefore, this is another reflection that we need to do. But then he entered a scene where from here, from the Government of the Generality, many decisions were taken that effectively restricted rights, justified, because obviously they were lost empty, at the same time, and, therefore, it was necessary to take many of these decisions, but it is also necessary that we continue to evaluate them. At this very moment in the execution, I would also say that the other element that had a lot of weight and a lot of strength were public servers. And we have to put that in value, too, don't we? , as the public servers were the ones who, in the end, ended us from this situation. And this is the other learning we need to do, the need for public services, from all over the public, to have societies that really are resilient and able to respond to these types of situations. Then there's another question of getting the young lady, that's all you have to see, right, with the restriction of rights and the way we're doing it now, isn't there? We here do want to make a point of saying..., oysters, since the Interior Department is pushing some new interpretation criteria of how a law applies – that our group has already said by active and passive that it should repeal, this law bites –, these same criteria should also apply to them at the time of interpreting another law such as that of public salvation, which was also used to issue certain sanctions in the field of manifestations such as those in the youth..., so that it can also be reviewed with criteria of maximum guarantee of rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, in this sense, we will give recollection to the vast majority of points of this motion, because we understand that we need to assess, that we need to review and that we also need to correct, perhaps, some decisions that were very negative in rights and fundamental freedoms and that maybe we will still be in time to review them. For our part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.13.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.14.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen... this young man has a certain parallelism with the 178th Dotzena motion, approved by the House of Commons on July 9th of the 20th. It's been almost two years and we're still living the pandemic of covid-19. The Dotzena's 178th motion, presented by the Esquerra Parliamentary Group, spoke about repression, rights and freedoms supposedly in the pandemic. Today's one carries with it the alleged violation of human rights such as those of protest, expression and protest in a situation of pandemic. Esquerra's motion was the typical separatist motion to engage the cat– to marish the loss, which I would say in Spanish –, to see that the Government of the Generality would be vigilant before the possible violation of rights and freedoms that, of course, would not violate the Autonomous Government, but, in any case, the Central Government. It was a reason to try to convince the convinced that the independent project is the essential means that must be able to guarantee all rights and bla-bla-bla. This young man that we are debating today is a little more honest than the D'Esquerra of July 20th and does not charge against the Government of Spain – if he does this against anyone, it would be against the Government of the Generality, which they themselves, with their vote, have made possible. We are before a young man who does not follow the usual line of the motions of this Parliament, since I include a long display of motion with which they want to motivate the small man of the motion. They begin by calling out to various reports of Catalan and, they say, international bodies to which they cite as supposed sources of authority. They are still motivating the movement by stating that – I quote textually – « to talk not only about the measures, but also about how they decided, implemented and taxed, and the costs they incurred. They also say that we need to make a critical review of the policies and actions the government has taken to review what has been done and, especially, what has been done badly. Look, so far, we could agree on the need for a young man to review the costs of measures that have sometimes come to seem arbitrary, and it is clear that we can agree that we need to make a review of what has been done and, above all, of everything that has been done wrong. But this is a CUP movement, and we don't share – oh, surprise – a good part of what they're asking for. They also talk about costs in the motius presentation, but there is no more reference in the text that forms the small part of the motion. We can share the lack of transparency and clarity of the government's action, and, in this sense, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we have already made various parliamentary initiatives, of the pandemic's iniquitous. We will not support the need to make a critical review of the measures taken precisely for the sake of the proposed group's respect for which they are and are not fundamental rights. Point 3 of the motion, addressed, like the first two, to the Parliament of Catalonia – to the parliamentary groups and to the deputies that conform – proposes something similar to a study commission in which the Health Councillors, Justice and the Interior and the group of experts who were to put the report on rights in order. Here we find another parallelism with the earlier Esquerra motion of July 20, in which the final report prepared for the famous group of experts appointed by the Department of Justice to guarantee the rights and freedoms in situations of emergency or social exceptionality was requested to Parliament, a report which the Esquerra group was requesting from its Government, to the Council of Justice, then also from Esquerra Republicana, and which, with many other proposals agreed in this Parliament, has remained in no way. The real feeling of this young man, the one we are debating today, of the CUP, remains pale in point 7, in which comes the claim of impunity for whom the same CUP, among others, have mobilized to provoke the raids of Catalonia. That's what they're talking about, but they're not talking about the dead in the residences. This has indeed been a veritable violation of fundamental rights, a right, the right to life, of hundreds of residents, of many great people, who have been violated and that the parliamentary groups of the PSC, Esquerra and Juntes have opposed to investigating. Maybe that's why I should talk to the lady. But, look, you, who are boasting of knowing and being able to influence the government's behavior, have not known or have not wanted to force these scandalous facts to be investigated; it may be that you are already doing well, but if there is a real violation of a fundamental right, precisely, it has been of this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.15.0	And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.16.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... well, I'll try to go fast in these two minutes. What the extreme racist right says matters to us is a curse, and what they vote for and what they explain. Next. With regard to Together, Left and SCP, motions may be made and other ways and proposals may be put forward, and they have not been made. First, thank the representatives of Esquerra and Juntes for their willingness to negotiate, but I think it contrasts with the real will that there is a debate on the part of the government and on the part of the groups that support the government, because the ideas they make respect for the concrete questions of debate are suppressive: "This does not seem good to us, this does not seem good to us, this does not seem good to us, and we do not propose anything at all. Therefore, we would be fond of what the Esquerra, Junts and PSC parliamentary groups are proposing in order to bring this debate forward – since they do not like the proposals that we have made or have not given them – and to the plans made by the Government. Let's hope there's an answer, because it's because, if not, it seems to us that the question has an empty point and a cynical point. And let's go back to the element of generating distrust in the population, lack of willfulness of transparency and lack of willfulness of debate. So, we say, their attitude, their attitude, their attitude, they end up giving us the reason in this previous part of the young man, that they say they don't see it or that they can't agree with it. For what he does to sanctions, well, there were measures imposed on them by the State, especially in the first part – it was already said – but other measures, in the second part of the pandemic, were empowered by the Generality. There were some exceptions that were collected from a full of self-responsibility, and among them there was the right to manifestation. And the people who had this full-fledged – who, therefore, used a right and who were recognized in the legislation in force – were punished through the law of salvation. It seems to us to be an absolute violation of fundamental rights and a solution, both for what it does and for what it does. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] to the Garriga companies – I finish, president – as for what he does to the Tarragona companies that he is mobilized. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.17.0	Thank you very much. So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half, once the number 20 point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into political espionage]] [[302-00142/13]] Let's move on to the seventh point of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into political espionage. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and in order to expose it, the deputy Marta Vilalta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.18.0	Well, thank you so much again. Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs... Three weeks ago and we met the crisis caused by the case of harder, bigger, more accredited espionage, and that directly affected independence, and three weeks later this crisis was still unresolved. "Catalangate is a capital scandal – so we were talking to the Councillor about it the other day – and as long as I wander through the days, it can't be as if there's nothing going on, just waiting for time to forget it. It's a capital scandal, we say, because it's a violation of phone rights. And in a right-wing state, we don't think there's any way we can deal with violations of the right to citizenship. Governments are there to protect rights, not to violate them. It is a capital scandal because, as it affects institutional representatives of a country – it affects presidents of this chamber, the president of the Government of the Generality... – it affects the country's own institutions. And that means it affects and violates the rights of the citizenry to whom those people who are in institutions represent. And, therefore, it's a capital scandal because it's an earthquake in democracy. It's a capital scandal, too, because it's a new example of repression, of this repression than in this general cause against independence. There is a persecution of the independenceists on the ground, sea and air, and also for the clavegueres. And for that reason, that's how we report it. We have seen follow-ups, arrests, exiles, economic persecution, and now also accredited espionage. And it's a big shot because, if that's not enough, even if they recognize it and justify it: "They deserve it. It is what we have heard to say – it is what we have heard to say – in various ways. So what we do before this case, obviously, is not to stand by it or resign ourselves. We reaffirm ourselves more than ever in this compromise of Parliament, of this Parliament and of the country, in the defence and protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, which, moreover, are involved in international treaties and agreements. And we remember that so simple, but at times so powerful, as it is that the independence movement that does is to defend an absolutely democratic, legitimate and peaceful project that is to be able to build a Catalan republic of rights and freedoms and equal opportunities for everyone. We present ourselves to the elections and win them, and that is why democracy is said to be. They don't want to win us with a brutal war and try to win us in the polls, which they won't get for now. It's been three weeks since we've been demanding, before this major scandal, transparency, and that means information and investigation, assuming responsibilities and guarantees of non-repetition of this espionage. Transparency and information. And, therefore, it means lights and stenographers, which are disclassifying all the information that has been spied on and why, which is kept in mind, the commissions of inquiry that are needed... And that hasn't happened, yet, to the Congress of Deputies. Taking responsibility, and therefore agreeing with the explanations given, with this information, that political responsibility is assumed. But it's just that it can't be done as if nothing has happened before such a difficult case. Those that follow, the political responsibilities that follow, but take over. It is wrong, in fact, that you think that with the termination of the director of the CNI you can close this folder and it's over and it's already solved, and it's over the clearance of responsibilities. In fact, they didn't even explain why the director of the CNI stopped: was she in charge? Was she responsible? You didn't explain it to anyone? It's just that they didn't even explain it. Therefore, yes, responsibilities. And what an explanation who made it, who prayed who made it, who was not in the case, who had ordered it, who allowed this espionage. Meanwhile, what we are doing in this case is calling for the resignation directly of Minister Robles, especially for the impropie statements of a government leader who is meant to say, which is to define democracy, because to justify espionage "because we deserve it is as scandalous as we have been spying on. And you also guarantee that he won't do it again, they won't do it again. Spying is a violation of phonental rights, and there are guarantees that it cannot be repeated again; guarantees also for democratic resolution of the conflict; guarantees also to be able to undertake the necessary negotiation process, and, therefore, to get out of the path of repression and take to the political lane, where there can be no escape from espionage, the democratic resolution of political conflicts, which is how democracy is resolved. That no one is wrong: the strategic bet, the way to democratic resolution and the way to negotiation, is now more obvious and more necessary than ever. And I just highlight two points of this motion: to push forward Article 203 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is this right of petition that has this chamber to do so in the European Parliament, and, therefore, to demand these necessary tools to avoid espionage in the countries, in the States of the European Union; and also to urge the amendment of the Spanish Franco law, the Francoist law of official secrets, on which they are seized in order to justify this case and not to give explanations. What's half way through the fold, when they don't give explanations, but more so, they take over a law, the law of official secrets, which is still frank. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.19.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco has the first word in the defence of the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.20.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, the truth is that this motion comes to the conclusion of weeks of misconceptions and exaggerations, of fake news, of curse against our democratic state, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, an institution of the state itself. In this sense, the truth is that, listening to the deputy of the Republican Left... I, the truth, address the chamber, but from the most absolute modesty, from the most absolute humility, would like, as spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, to address me also to the president of the government of the nation, Mr Sánchez. I do not know whether Mr Sánchez is perfectly aware of everything his governing partners, his investiture partners, say in the different parliaments in which they have room; for example, in the Parliament of Catalonia. I do not know whether you are aware of the systematic blackmail to which you are subjecting the institutions of the State, of the absolutely unacceptable and intolerable pressure to which you are subjecting our Government and of the systematic disregard for our democratic state, our rule of law, the institutions of our rule of law. The truth is that from our group we regret that the President of the Government of Spain has again put public officials at the feet of the horses, served Mrs Paz Esteban on a silver platter to her partners, for an absolutely spurious end from the point of view of the general interest: what Mr Sánchez intends is to maintain the support of partners who have shown themselves perfectly disloyal, absolutely dishonest in their relationship with the Government of Spain, who despise, of course, the unity of Spain, who despise our democratic state, who despise our Constitution. And, therefore, we from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, tell Mr Sánchez to listen to his partners, to hear what they say about Spain, to hear what they say about our public servants, to hear what they say about our institutions, to hear how they refer to the Constitution, the contempt they feel and manifest for the Catalan constitutionalists and the rest of the Spanish, and to ask whether it is really worth it, Mr Sánchez. Is it worth it? Does the end justify the means, in your view? Is it really reasonable to continue to make Spain's governance rest on the basis of such dishonest and disloyal partners in political practice? We, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, are clear that we do not, and that is why we again denounce this submission, this surrender of State institutions to its partners, to Mr Sánchez' separatist partners. Certainly, the legislature, in the whole of Spain, at the national level, seems to reach its end by precisely this attitude of Mr Sánchez to hand over systematically all those responsible, all those public servants who, fulfilling their constitutional obligations, fulfilling their duty, precisely as servants of the whole of the Spaniards, as servants of the general interest..., because Mr Sánchez what he does is to put his head, that of Paz Esteban, in this case, but..., as he did before, for example, with my colleague Edmundo Bal, as a lawyer of the State, when he did not want to sign the report in which he intended to lower the request for the penalty of the State to those who had given the coup d'état in the year 17, precisely, Oriol Junqueras and company, the current partners of Mr Sánchez. Well, as a citizen of Catalonia, one certainly regrets systematically seeing how separatist parties blackmail the government, despise Spain, despise our institutions and demand even more resignation. This has to be stopped in a definitive way, because, if not, Mr Sánchez will really continue to derail the state in a perhaps irreversible way. He is disabling State institutions in an irresponsible, reckless way, only to extend his stay in Moncloa for a few more months. The truth is that, as a ruler, he has no sense of state, he has no responsibility, and he is, I insist, putting our public servants at the feet of the horses and deeply degrading our institutions. It's simply unsustainable. This motion presented here today by the separatist parties, Esquerra Republicana, is absolutely inadmissible. It's for the best..., fake news without any kind of base. They've been publicly recognized. Official secrets have been publicly opened. We have had to denounce from Citizens, precisely, the revelation of official secrets. We are systematically seeing how separatist parties make and undo their will without anyone reprimanding them for it. In this sense, we have recently known how Mr Puigdemont met with an emissary from Putin the day before proclaiming sperpentic independence in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] I see that you are indignant, Members, but the truth is that we have known this news. And we continue to say that Mr Sánchez must stop depending and subject the governability of Spain to the demands and blackmail of the disloyal and dishonest partners he currently has in the Government of Spain. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.21.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.22.0	Okay. From our parliamentary group we have said this, we are ahead of a difficult fact, a difficult fact from a democratic point of view, because I think it is what we are talking about, that is. We are talking about democracy, not certain political positions. And that is why, from the very beginning, we have condemned and rejected the espionage that has affected sixty-five people linked to the independence movement, as we also did when it was also revealed that it has affected members of the Government of the State. And it's especially difficult, in our view, because we're not in front of just one case of telephone escorts, but the use of a programmer like Pegasus, who makes a jump, because it allows access to all the information that contains a phone, to all content, as well as private information. And it's a technology in the hands of a foreign, Israeli company, and, more importantly, operated by its workers. In fact, surely the archives of these mobile phones and those of the State Government are in the hands of this company, they are at these moments rooted in Israel. And we, from the first moment forward, have set three goals. First, to know what happened, to know what happened; how, why and what was the motive of these investigations. I, from here – and not before – determine the abst of responsibilities, as the second objective. And, in the third place, keep the guarantees and take the necessary measures because it has not returned to produce. And that is why, in the first place, to know what happened, we have given support here in the Parliament of Catalonia and we have also jointly promoted at the level of the State the possibility..., and also materialized claiming a commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies and also in the Parliament of Catalonia. And for us, it's key that they know some information that we don't have yet. In the first place, which is declassifying the documentation of the National Intelligence Centre to know, to know the motivations that led to these investigations, which were not authorized, because we know that there are some that were not authorized by the judicial authorities. And, from here on, whether, although they were not authorized, either the CNI or the CNI sectors or even other institutions that we don't know are the ones that decided to include more than forty people in this follow-up, or who did this follow-up, despite not being authorized by the court. And it's obvious that there's still information left to know what it's about, but I think I can also put things in its fair measure. I think it's good news that the director of the CNI has resigned and ceased. I think things have to be said, too. It's not..., it's not a harmless fact; it's just listening to the speech he makes at these times on the right, both the political right and the media right..., but also for what he supposes from a point of view taking on political responsibilities. As neither is the modification of the official secrecy committee, because surely much of the information we know today..., is because the composition of the official secrecy committee has changed..., not only that it constituted the official secrecy committee. So, as I said, I also think that I can put in his right measure the steps that are being given; surely, they must be more, but I think I can also put them in the face of the table. And, in the third place, it's also essential to establish mechanisms – and I think that with that too it was..., and we agree – because it's not going back to production and it's not going to happen again. First of all, we believe that we can end up with sectors of the State that already operate from the deep state or from the state's keyposts. Certainly, keystrokes that have also affected us and pointed at us, sometimes also – let me tell you not as a toilet, but perhaps as a point – with silence or not with so much, say, effervescence in statements by some. In fact, yesterday the councillor of social services was unable to sympathize with the mayor of Barcelona, when she clearly suffers a lawfare attack on part of her background. Two times, we asked him, and the silence was assiduous, as he likes to say to you. And today we have also registered, together with some parliamentary groups, the investigation committee on the state's keyloggers. Secondly, I think we need to reform the law of official secrets – I think it is fundamental – and adapt it to the European context. So it's also obvious that we've got work to do. Finally, two more points. I think we need to legislate on the use of these technologies as represented by Pegasus, because, in addition, I think they are a threat to the sovereignty of the State. Among other things, because it is a technology that is in the hands of a foreign military power, such as, in this case, the Government of Israel. And, finally, also to analyze how it can be, and I believe that it is also important here that we also establish mechanisms on the part..., and I believe that this to the committee that we do to the Parliament of Catalonia should serve us to fix mechanisms to protect the conjunction of citizenship, but also our public bodies. And here too..., to know if, obviously, there have been mistakes in the protection of security, to begin with, of the president, and also to see what it is that the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia can improve, which, moreover, is more than that of its own advisor, who explained it to everyone else, so also serves us for something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.23.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.24.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... the Spanish State is a full democracy. The Spanish State is a democracy comparable to the countries around us, the Western countries. The Spanish State has policies of security and intelligence similar to those of our partners, that is, democratic countries. Spain is a reliable partner of democracies, a reliable partner in the complex and convulsive times that has touched us and that we have to live. I don't know if everyone can say the same. The Government of Spain, that of President Sánchez, does not come out to spy on its citizens and its citizens; the Government of Spain sets priorities of national security, and there are public servants and servants who do their work. You are aware, I am not entirely sure, of the destabilisation attempts of the European Union countries – also of the United States – that we have suffered and suffered in the recent past. I am convinced that the intelligence services of our country always act in the framework of legality. Your decisions are supervised and authorized by the Supreme Court, all of you know that. The National Intelligence Centre protects lives every day and silently, as it has to be; it has even collaborated and collaborates, as I suppose you know, with the Squad Mossos. The Government of Spain will not do anything about illegal acts, that is, acts committed outside the law. The Government of Spain, today, is and will be transparent before public opinion. The President of Spain, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, will give explanations, as he has always done. [[Some deputies are coughing.]] Yeah, not tussin, 'cause you do have some things to explain, huh? If we keep talking long enough, it's not worrying, is it? It's not a worry. The President of Spain, as he said, will give explanations, as he has always done. This is a government, the government of Spain, although it does not like them, who looks at the faces of the citizens, looks at things face to face. Don't hit it – don't hit it. And, look, you can act transparently – I think it's happening, don't you? – and with transparency in reference to intelligence services. And it's perfectly possible, this transparency, safeguarding security, the concepts of security. In fact, which has defied the constitution of the Committee of Secrets and Official Reserved Materials has been the attitude of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. There were some political parties that opposed the whole parliamentary arch being on this committee. And that's all right, because all policy options follow. In the Parliament of Catalonia we are also represented all political parties, aren't we? , in the Committee of Secret and Reserved Materials of Parliament. And, in any case, the problems, the crises, have to be addressed from the dialog. It's the only way to hear us. The situation today is totally different from that of three or four years ago, which we had, and we all know it perfectly well, an absolutely rare and inflamed climate in the political and parliamentary spectrum band and band. And I repeat, in order to finish this intervention, that the National Centre of Intelligence does not act outside the scope of legality, please the most or please the least. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.25.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.26.0	Thank you, President. Well, Republican Left of Catalonia brings us today to Parliament a young man not to improve the lives of Catalans, but to continue wasting time with his new smoke curtain, supposed spying on strikers and separatists. In point 1 they ask to condemn the alleged espionage of the CNI, but they do not condemn the espionage of their police. The police, the Mossos of the expressident Mas, Puigdemont, Torra and Aragonès, have also spied on the mobile phones of politicians and journalists through the Italian program RCS 9 Galileo, a system similar to Pegasus. What do we do, Mrs. Vilalta? Do we give explanations? Investigating? We're applying for resignation? No, no? [[Widow's remorse.]] You're hypocrites. [[Greetings.]] Points 2 and 3. They state that the separatist movement is democratic and guarantees rights, and then organize coups d'état. Is that democratic? You're hypocrites. Then they limit the right of Catalans..., for example, to be able to study Spanish to Catalonia, to Spain. You're hypocrites. Points 4, 5 and 6. Names are invented – the « Catalangate –, require resignations, participate in the commission of secrets and create commissions of inquiry. Look, the state must protect itself from the coup, and we tell them again: little has been spied on. [[Greetings.]] And we find it necessary for the State to use the legal means to defend itself from external and internal attacks. You being on the official secret committee is like putting a wolf to watch the chickens. You love the commissions of inquiry, you ask many, except when it comes to investigating your trophies, because you have voted no to the request of three groups of this chamber to investigate the dismissal of mossos who were investigating cases of corruption of the heirs..., of the former politicians of Junts, the Marxist-pujolists. Point 7. They say they're going to the European Parliament to ask for protection. Look... in the European Parliament we've been to the VOX Parliamentary Group. We have been physically with the president of the Ignacio Garriga Parliamentary Group in order to denounce that here there is a difficult situation of insecurity, that you do not do anything about it, that your goodness is ending with the tranquility of Catalans, that you cannot come out calmly – our girls and our boys – on the streets. And, of course, Islam is a threat to our coexistence and is advancing because of you. [[Some applause.]] Finally, points 8, 9 and 10 make a number of requests to governments related to their new smoke curtain. And since VOX we have drawn several conclusions. The successive governments of Spain have forgotten the importance of raising investment in defence. In fact, the President of the Government has already said that this is a superfluous ministry. And cases like these show that we need to invest more in defence – external, internal – for the peace and security of all Spaniards. And if espionage to the president of the Spanish government is a lie, he has to resign as a liar. And if that's true, you'd have to resign for not protecting your own cell phone. How will it protect the interests and security of all Spaniards? And one final conclusion and request – we have already said it repeatedly. We want illegal separatist parties. We want the illegal separatist parties. Why? Because they are enemies of our history, our legality, our coexistence, our equality with Spain and our prosperity. They're enemies of Spain. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.27.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.28.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... we will vote in favour of all points of the motion, because we fully share everything that is asked. It is clear that we are before very hard, of extreme gravity, and that we must look, from the Parliament, from the sovereignty of this Parliament, to clarify, obviously in the measure that is possible for us, because we know that there is a whole series of difficulties that we find ourselves on the road..., but we must clarify as much as we can what has happened here. And we have to do it ourselves, because it's clear that at the Congress of Deputies they're not in this pocket. It was said that no, the door was closed to the committee of inquiry, when if there was somewhere to investigate this, such as that the CNI is a place where it is not its own administration, that what it does is not acts of administration..., so there had to be..., if something was to be done, it was parliamentary control. This door's locked. And we also have to do this from this Parliament, because at the judicial level all this will have a limited scrutiny. And we'll see how, as long as there's a whole series of court proceedings, he'll arrive, he'll land at the National Court, Number 6 Central Court, which is a black hole, and we'll see how he'll once stretch out all the competitions so that he'll always investigate himself from the center of power and in concrete trials and in concrete prosecutions. Therefore, this Parliament must take on its responsibilities and begin to carry out the relevant investigation. Another idea we wanted to say: that this topic, "Catalangate", is not new. This goes all the way. State espionage operations are not new. Between 82 and 83, under the socialist government, under the hand, at that time, of the radio spectrum monitoring centre, CESID carried out unlawful escorts and recordings of conversations held for an indiscriminate name of persons, including journalists, politicians..., including the king of Spain, there was, which ended with the relevant sentence. A few years later other practices emerged, in this case, under the hands of the People's Party. 98 also discovered that he had been spying illegitimately, with the colocation of hidden microphones and making phone interventions, to his HB's Vitòria – a whole series of illegitimate conduits. This is discovered, and it also ends in criminal convictions. What happens, that at a certain point, making the maximum 'gattopardian to see that something changes because it changes, the CESID has become like CNI and it is taken from the handle an organic law in which the two great political parties of order of that time do not have any type of problem in agreeing, as is this law of the control of the CNI, of the judicial authority of the CNI. They don't have a problem posing directly. And that's what it does to raise a genuine legal fraud to the law category. Why? So why is a procedure invented..., which I do not think is possible to talk about "procedure, a petition from the director of the CNI to a certain magistrate in the third chamber who is appointed for the General Council of the Judiciary and in which no one else intervened..., so this is, for them, the existence of a procedure – I think it does not have the category of procedure. And then we see that the scrutiny goes through reserved fund commissions of the Congress, which, obviously, in attention to the times they are called, in attention to the hourly limit, it is impossible that they can tax any type of work of the CNI. So we have a serious problem. We have a law that is an absolute fraud that must also be touched, not only the law of official secrets to which they refer from the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, but also this law of judicial control of the CNI, and it must be immediately adopted these legal acts. Because, effectively, if this is not the case, people's lives will continue to be spied on under the excuse of national security. Why, that, how far can he carry us? Anyone who has anything that is not interested in knowing about their personal life that you can get from a foreign government could also be subject to follow-up and control by the CNI? It is clear that it could affect national security. So, we have to put in place, and, from this Parliament, work in whatever we can. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.29.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.30.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, this young man has two points, of which we will only vote favorably one – the rest we will vote against. The point that we would vote in favour of what you say in text is: "Two. Parliament reaffirms its democratic commitment to the defence and protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens in international treaties and conventions. Well, its writing is aseptic, neutral, and, consequently... we never look at who presents a motion, but what we analyze is what the writing says. And from this point of view, this point is the only one we can support. In the rest, as you can imagine, we will vote against it. And I'd love to make a series of valuations. First. Investigations, in democracy, can only be done with judicial protection – I'm talking about investigation, someone will have to talk about espionage –; investigations, following the Mossos, the CNI or whoever it is. This is an obvious finding in democratic terms. Second. This young woman for girls things that are not proven to be illegal. In point 8, he talks about 'illegal interventions', in a textual way. In point 9, he talks about "rights violated". This is not shown, and, as it is not shown, we cannot say that this has happened. The suspect is in court. You yourself have filed a complaint. In fact, this Parliament – we did not agree – presented, as in the institution, a complaint. And justice must be respected. And justice must be respected because, when espionage information came out of the Mosos to constitutionalist policies, some of this information was archived– not all of it, some of it still goes on – and we followed what gave justice, this archive, although we did not agree, which is what a Democrat does: he abides by judicial resolutions, especially when he disagrees. The fourth consideration I wanted to make is in relation to the 68th law. Well, beyond the fact that you are always obsessed with legislating on things from other chambers instead of legislating on the competences of this Parliament of Catalonia – which does not legislate practically absolutely anything else, it is a waste of constant time – you would say one thing: if you want, from the Republican Left, to modify this law, then you have the opportunity to present an initiative to the Congress without any type of problem. But I would also like to make a reminder: you..., Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya gave support to José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero – and through the tripartite – for seven years in Catalonia and in Spain. I've reviewed it; maybe I'm wrong, but I haven't seen any kind of initiative to change that law. I'm saying that because now they also have a dialog table. I don't know what they're talking about, I don't think it's very useful, but I don't have any information, or since it hasn't come out to the public light, that one of your petitions is to change this law from year 68. As a result, I come to the conclusion that you have felt very comfortable for decades with this law that you now say frankly and all these things. He's sneaking up a little bit, 'cause they're always late for things. In any case, if you want to change the law, vagine at the Congress of Deputies – you have a parliamentary group, and therefore you can do it perfectly – but do not intend to legislate from the Parliament of Catalonia on things that are not our competence. And a later finding, that this is, in short, certified for justice: here the only ones sentenced to serve and for the treatment of private data illegally are you. That is proved, that is proved, and that is determined by justice. So all that's left is speculation that we'll see how it ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.31.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Rius has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs... Today it's twenty-five days since the escandol of the "Catalangate", the case of mass espionage, was blown away. Twenty-five days, and no credible explanation. I put them on a marker and they will see it clearly: Europe 1– Catalunya 1–, Spain 0, as always. The Kingdom of Spain is still stuck in its own keyrings so that there is no explanation. While Europe has been set up as a commission of inquiry and in this Parliament we have started the procedures to set it up and to look at who has been spying on, who has ordered it, as far as it goes, in Spain it is not intended to take on any investigation. The commission of investigation or complicity, we will not tire of repeating it. And we don't need them to use a commission of official secrets like the smoke curtain. Home, say they've already given an explanation to the secret committee when it can't be used, if not, I think it's a little distressed or... I don't know, I'm staying here. We have known, through various leaks to the press, that the CNI has requested judicial authorization to spy separately from the sixty-five accredited victims. Two considerations: by much judicial authority that exists, neither espionage nor investigation can become legal. The use of Pegasus, even under authorization, is an illegal and criminal fact, for the way it is to be bought, for the use that can be made when it is bought. That is to say, the Supreme's judgment could also have been incorrect in a heavy crime, and that cannot be passed through. Next. When the Supreme Court authorizes the escorts of elected representatives, journalists or lawyers, at CNI's instigations, it does so to obtain information about political dissent, not to investigate crimes. They've made us think they're spying on us because we're terrorists. And we're not terrorists, we're democratically chosen people in an urn. And yes, yes, we win and add major elections to the elections – it looks like that's what makes them for it. And, according to the Major, if there were alleged crimes, shouldn't it be the state authorities, the police, who investigate the facts? Ergo, what the CNI has done is a forward-looking investigation. They want to put up a smokescreen, and we don't admit it. The Spanish government has authorized the investigation of different people, but... what about the rest? What about the forty-seven victims we've now believed? Let us remember that Amnesty International and Citizen Lab have at the moment accredited sixty-five victims, and there is not a blanket large enough to cover this scandal. You really didn't give any kind of explanation? At what cost of democracy do they want to settle down? Do you know what's going on, gentlemen of the PSC? That, with all due respect, it is clear that Spain does not have a project for Catalonia that will not spy on us or repress us, or illegalize us, in the case of VOX. Logically, about the concrete text of the motion... it's obvious that we share it. It is clear that we are closing the democratic compromise with defence and with the protection of the rights and freedoms of the citizenry. We have always said: the independence project is a democratic project, it is not violent, it is peaceful, it is legitimate. From Junts per Catalunya we will vote yes, and we have convinced that, in the end, the truth always – always – won. It was a while ago that the head of the European Diplomacy, Mr Borrell, that before sewing a wound could disinfect it. And here what can disinfect are the state locksmiths, short and short, and fast. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.33.0	So, finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Marta Vilalta once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.34.0	Well, thank you very much. There were two presentations, one from the group of the commons, which we accepted, and one from Ciutadans, which obviously did not. A thought, Ciutadans's, perilous, because what he does is justify and hope to investigate the independenceists. Associate independence to want to destroy the democratic order, to carry us the Constitution. We want to vote and decide democratically; ballots and build our future collection, which decided citizenship, the people of Catalonia. Do you know what they want to do or what they want to do? To discredit a movement that is legitimate and that is democratic, and to try to dehumanize us and justify repression, yes, that all goes well. And that's very dangerous. With his words they defend that the unit of Spain is over democracy. And what we do today is: who is weaker, who is weaker, when, to defend himself, he has to roll right and he has to apply the brutal war. An acclaim, for some of the references that have been made. They don't threaten us, they don't miss us, they don't insult us. Here are the only ones who have fostered... who have made a couple of states are you, and they are what you represent, VOX lords. [[Greetings.]] I, lastly, to the PSC: if they say that Spain is a full democracy, that is known – that is known. Why does the European Parliament have a committee of inquiry into the Pegasus case and the Congress of Deputies? – here it is, for sure. Why is the Spanish state condemned to a hundred years in prison by the independent leaders to want to build a Catalan republic, while the European justice is that there has been a violation of rights and there are just about all the causes why they do not stand? Until now, what we were going to say to them is that the silence of the PSC was clamorous, in this case. Instead of being brave, ambitious and demanding transparency and responsibilities, as they should be doing, until now the silence was clamorous, but today its words I think have still been worse. I don't know if they look people or citizens in the face; in any case, what they've done at the moment is spy, and that's not really going to happen. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.35.0	So, after the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this middle, when we've just substantiated the last of the points of the order of the day, number 20. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of residences for large people]] [[302-00137/13]] Now we move on to item 17 of the order of the day, the motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the management of the residences for the great people, which the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has presented. To expose her, Mrs. Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, we all know why we're here, don't we? In case, for the first time, I remember them. Citizens ask the Parliament of Catalonia to join in the pain of the families who have lost one of the loved ones because of the covid-19 pandemic and at the time to clarify the truth of what happened. Citizens believe that Parliament must believe that the management of the pandemic for the administration of the Generality in relation to the elderly living in residences has been harmful, both from the point of view of the lack of leadership and initiative as well as the lack of planning that has been revealed. You think the management of the pandemic that was the protagonist of some of the residences for large people was just as bad, because of the slip that allowed you to learn, and because of the lack of diligence and humanity with which the elderly were treated. It recognizes and appreciates the immense effort made by the staff of many large people's homes, as well as the emergency, primary care, hospital care staff, in the care of the elderly who were affected by the pandemic, and whom so many lives saved. Not all staff, for this reason: we also say that it is necessary to clean up responsibilities, criminally and civilly, if you fail, for all those conduits that by action, omission or lack of inexcusable diligence have caused the death of elderly people or have unnecessarily increased their patience in their last moments. He believes that the pandemic has demonstrated the serious shortcomings of the current model of residences and home care for large people, and that it is necessary to undertake a study commission that will study the overall conditions under which the old age is developed and bring ideas and proposals for initiatives to improve them. Finally, the Parliament of Catalonia, if you vote for the motion we are presenting today, will urge you to do many things. He'll have to do an audit of all the contracts. Basically, we're asking for transparency, we're asking for control, and we're asking for recognition that the cove took Catalonia with the pits in the belly, took with the pits in the belly a social health model that expired and, finally, a corrupt model. Ladies and gentlemen who say they love Catalonia, take care of Catalans, take care of Catalans. I dedicate the resources to the first priority, which should be to take care of the Catalans. And opposition lords, well, give priority to controlling these things. I ask you, in these matters – then we will discuss the papers presented – to say what you think, to read what you vote, to vote what you think is fair. And, well, ahead of the reality of these difficult issues, these bloody issues, these difficult issues..., political pacts that may be legitimate, but at times they might have to go beyond general interest. I don't read them all together because I don't really know that every member of this chamber knows how to read, but I would like to highlight a couple of points, such as drawing the map of Catalonia's dependency. We believe that the drama of residences is an exhibition of the lack of effectiveness, sensitivity and even humanity of a clearly outdated social and health system that needs to be made a deep clean, also looking who is bidding what and what is being outsourced. I mean, we're in favour of a concerted health care, but not of a Mafia concerted health care. And I would like to insist, from all the drama of dependence, on two points of the motion: to urge the competent administrations in the matter to recognise the permanent incapacity of ELA's ills since the time of the diagnosis, while committing themselves to lend, these administrations, all the necessary means that they take from the Generality to make it possible; to provide, in coordination with other administrations, a comprehensive programme of support for ELA's ills and their families that enclose, among other measures, the possibility that the ills can be cared for at home through economic aid that compensates for the expenses and the loss of entrances that they suffer. That, and nothing else, is what's going to vote here today. And here you vote, what you vote consciously. For now, leave it here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.37.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mónica Ríos.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.38.0	Well, thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. In the first place, we appreciate the presentation of this young man, who gives to the needy of our great people for what he does to the residential model and of cures, but, as well as the title of the young man, not only to this collection, but also to those people who, by necessity, have to ask for help from dependence or to those people who unfortunately suffer from a disease as cruel as ELA, regardless of the age they have. I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the motion, in concrete terms in new ways, and then I will explain a little more concretely the position of our group on some of them. Before, however, as the motion puts it, the Socialists of Catalonia and Units for Progress also want to join in the pain of the families who have lost during this evil pandemic someone was esteemed, with the drama added that they could not have been taken from them. Thus, we also add to the recognition and acknowledgment to the professionals of residences, emergency personnel, primary care, hospital care... but allow me, given that we talk about residences, which do more emphasis in these first ones, that in the context of pandemic his work has acquired even more relevance than ever, with the sole purpose of caring for our great people in a situation of extreme complexity, and in some cases it has been questioned and assigned. All of them, thank you. And yes, the socialists also think that he managed it from the Generalitat's residential resources during the pandemic has been disastrous. And it's also true that the pandemic has shown shortcomings in the residential home care model. Lacks, on the other hand, resulting from a policy of two years of retailing in the socio-sanitary field, among others. And you propose a study commission. So look, we can change the name, but we already have the Covid-19 Impact Analysis Work Group in the Residences of Catalonia, and we have more to know than what went on to the residences by means of the analysis of the measures taken, it will result in a document with measures to strengthen our system of cures and, above all, because it never goes on again. Hundred_three submissions requested, Mrs. Degree. Stop saying we want to silence the families. Everyone will see: families, entities, experts, technicians, political leaders... all of them. They are also proposing to draw up a map of dependence in Catalonia, and we will vote in favour of it, but it is true that the record, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, that we have presented a motion on residential places and day centres, which was presented by my group and debated in this plenary, where we approved this proposal for unanimity at point 1 of the motion, which said: "To present and publish to the website of the Department of Social Rights, in terms of two_months, the territorial programming of needy social services specialized in 2022-2026, among others, the number of places of residence and day centres for large people and people with disabilities foreseen and the demand for these services in the territory. As I said before, they can change names, titles, but we're there. We also agree that we cannot allow ourselves to be leaders in waiting lists in dependence: 72,000 Catalans and affected Catalans, of whom, unfortunately, die before aid – totally intolerable. But, ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, if you are so concerned, you have been told that you have made a proposal in respect of what we Socialists have done, that two weeks ago the alternate government presented the plan of reduction of waiting lists in dependence with three basic proposals – very briefly, because I don't have time –: grade and PIA in a _only delay, package of services according to grade and computerization. And I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, you are now giving us or want to give us many lessons from how we have to make opposition, surely endorsed for the good results of your opposition task when you were the first group of this chamber. So look, this is our way of making opposition – that of the socialists –: working to find solutions to the difficult problems that the Catalans and the Catalans suffer. Menys blow on one side and on the other, and more solutions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.39.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.40.0	Thank you, President. Well, we have this comeback because, obviously, we've led this young man who presents Ciutadans. Now the Socialist Party has preceded me, which also spoke of its young man, a couple of months ago, about residential care centres. And here... or here, with this reason that we are debating today, with the intervention of the Socialist Party, it remains a bit... that someone wants to capitalize on who is most concerned about the residences, for which he went to the residences, but what we have now, today, the fruit of the consensus or the non-parliamentary consensus, is that, instead of having constituted a commission of inquiry, which was the one that played, so we have a working group. And this, whether we like it or not, is the reality, although it's not what the families called it. It is not the requirement of families, because a working group that dilutes the research objective, because it does not have the same parliamentary people, it was not what was asked from families and organizations, that what is asked is reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. So, despite the fact that it is not the objective, what we have today is a working group that has already been set up, which we have just set up less than forty-four hours ago, in which we have granted a list of peers, and in which we must then define a timetable. Then, more than making specific proposals for resolutions on who is most concerned about residences, what we should do are concrete policies and current changes, changes already, without any longer waiting, that do in some way honor the compliment of the monographic ple of large people and of residences that was held in July 2020 and that still, today, has not been completed. So here we ask, and we ask the entities too, you have to see with the charge of the independent audience, that it is a specific point that there is to the motion; speed up the reinforcement of the primary care at the residential centers – we have a social health agency that is supposed to be in the process of constitution and will arrive at a legislative process, but we have not yet seen it and are not going to the speed that requires not only families, but also asks for the situation that we have now – the change at the level of rights – to set up the minimum amounts of a place for a farmer or a farmer every four people; to have a medical service that will come to the hospital in the day. All this can be done; the working group must not be expected and is not being done at this very moment. The thought that we presented and that was not accepted was specifically in point 6, which spoke not of a study commission on residences, because we understand that the work group will already complete this function, while repeating that it is not the one that had been asked..., we thought it would be appropriate to undertake a study commission that, in any case, would speak globally of the conditions in which the attention to dependence is developed and determine the model of cures that we want to take, and redefine this model. And this, as in the forerunner of a law of Catalan dependence that has a _mark that marks, once and for all, a model of care of cures, a public service of cures and care of dependence with community perspective, with feminist perspective, integrating the network of social services, with resources to guarantee a worthy attention that recognizes and that dignifies the work of cures and the work of dependence, in concrete terms, with a professional activity that puts life in the center. This is what we proposed. It hasn't been accepted, because, as well as holding the work group, we're still talking about this. So, while we are voting in favour of most of the points, I think it is important to do a reflection exercise on the usefulness we make in terms of parliamentary instruments and expectations, too. We had the opportunity to create a commission of inquiry; it wasn't done. We have a working group; we have to be responsible for the work plan and above all for the timing and the size of the families. We will have sessions that will be open and that we hope that families, entities, organizations will pay attention to follow the work we do. And finally, with all this we hope that, with the scepticism that we have not for this concrete reason, but for the working group in particular, and that we hope that it will work..., what we hope, above all, is that the government takes on the activities and the specific demands and actions that can now be made to change the model of dependency, to repair what was not done during the pandemic, and, ultimately, to guarantee the rights of the great people and the workers in this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.41.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since VOX we have joined in the support of so many families who have lost a major during the pandemic and in denouncing the deplorable management of geriatric residences by the then responsible, the social rights adviser, Mr El Homrani. So unfortunate was his management during the first wave that at the beginning of April he was removed from the jurisdiction of residences to Social Rights, after the geriatrics became authentic morgues. The Department of Health assumed the competencies, although this did not change at all. In fact, before being relegated from this competition Mr. the Homrani..., in less than a month the Generalitat of Catalonia had 1,123 dead in geriatric residences. And a month later, being already in charge of Salut, the dead by covid were more than 2,240. In Catalonia, more than nine thousand people have died during the pandemic in the geriatric residences. As you know, the two large entities that the Generalitat indirectly manages and which comprise most of the geriatric residences, and where separatism has placed its acolytes, are Mutuam and Sumar, so it is no wonder the government's cowardice on this issue. That is why we are not surprised that they are opposed to an open committee of inquiry, because they do not want to clear up responsibilities to the citizens. They're not interested in getting their party mates flagged. Unfortunately, the PSC gives them shelter and covers their backs on this subject, as in so many others. Nor should it be surprising to you that we will continue to demand clarification of what has happened, demanding the transparency that you deny the families of all those elders, reminding society that in the midst of the pandemic they left all these people in the geriatric residences worrying only about their armchairs. And, while thousands of elderly people died in Catalonia, their relatives were also condemned to silence, preventing them from visiting or attending their funerals because of abusive and restrictive measures imposed by the Government of Spain and the Generalitat de Catalunya. I anticipate that we will not forget what citizens have suffered in these two years of pandemics, and that, of course, we will continue to require the necessary resources to ensure a dignified life for our elders and the rest of the dependents. Because, while you only worry about imposing your rupturist agenda, in the year 2021 thirty-four people died every day waiting for help. We have come to this Parliament with the firm intention of improving the quality of life of all Catalans, and that is why we will vote in favour of many of the points in this proposal. Perhaps they are more fortunate in this motion with the left and the separatism that we have had, that we have seen how they have come up against our proposals to put an end to the waiting lists for geriatric residences and offer a solution to those 17,500 older people, or, as far as aid is concerned, to the 78,542 dependent people who expect financial aid and do not have it. Finally, let us hope that you will have more luck for the sake of all those people to whom both separatism and the left have been abandoning for years. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.43.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.44.0	Okay. Good morning, everybody. Counselor... thank you, President. Members, first of all, Mrs Grau, I know it wasn't there, but I could ask your colleagues, the one who passed the last legislature, because we didn't ask for forgiveness and we didn't take the self-criticism, so... Here there were-there were monograms, there was-there was, more than that, a resident investigation committee, which was stuck because the legislature fell, and, more than that, in the parliamentary debates that we had, they gave explanations once and for another. If you want to review our interventions..., we didn't just ask for forgiveness, but that, more than that..., or go on, we gave thanks and mentored all the staff who were at the edge of the cano, and who thanked them and the effort..., because I assure you, if anything we did at those times was to leave our hair there, or we were there, at the edge of the cano. Today I want to give special thanks..., not only at that time to the directors of professional and voluntary residences, but to the nurses and the nurses, because today, as you know, is International Day of Nursing. As the company Escarp said, therefore, an eternal grace. And no, we're not proud of that initial management, but you don't cheat; with that no, don't go looking for the headline. Because that wasn't in Catalonia, and he knows it very well; that was world-wide. Fifty per cent of deaths per covid were in residential centers. What did he take away from us? Yeah. That there was no material? Also. That we didn't know how to cover the basses of so many people who were infected? Also. But there's one thing that we can never deny to ourselves, and it's transparency, because we went out on a daily basis, we went out with daily reports explaining all the infections to the residents, every death there was. Can you say the same where you were ruling? Can you say anything about Andalusia? [[Greetings.]] Can you say anything about Madrid? I remember: Martín Duran, president of the Federation of Majors' Organizations of Andalusia, said of you: "The Board is not acting transparently on this matter. Commissions Workers denounced them on various occasions, and in Madrid. Please don't play. You were there. The largest number of deaths in non-Espanya residents, but from all over Europe. Please don't play with this. It's very serious. In addition, our advisor, Cervera, has only been in the carrec for a year, and she has also been in the carrec for the 5th and 6th times as long as she needed it. At the last appearance, on the 16th of February, it was given all the information that the parliamentary groups asked for to report on all the data that there was in residence, all the management that had been done, how to prevent the situation that was going on. And I think we've learned, and I think there's a little bit to say about the management, especially, of this past year. Well, I don't know. He asked us for a number of other things, but, as always, he focused, therefore, on a subject. And I would like to say: you ask us for a study commission to improve the treatment of old age. We're doing it, and you're part of it. We've created a working group, you're part of it. He knows we've already presented the work plan, and so I think he can tell us a little bit. They want to set aside a service inspection program for the old age; already, the inspection plan for 2022 is already published. They want to make a map of dependence for Catalonia to assess the resources they require; we are totally in agreement, we are working and at the end of the year the council will also put it on the table. We request that we go to meetings of the Territorial Council for Social Services and Care of the Unit; ja hi anem– ja hi anem. He talks to us about the ELA; we are the first concerned about the situation of all the ills, of all the people who suffer from this disease. We only asked one thing in this young man, and you let us work from the Agency of Integrated Social and Health Care, which knows perfectly well that it is about to end in his creation. So that's why we're here. And they ask us to resolve the requests for recognition of dependence in less than two months and to compensate those to whom they resolve late. Miri, what else would we want? We need resources, because we need more personal and more tools. If you're working on it, you're improving your computer tools to move on to this, you're drifting out of those who are closest to other places where the senders are faster. He's trying to do everything we can with the resources we have. One thing is to suffer an unjust financing, and the other thing is to bear that of fifty-five between the State and the Government of Catalonia we must suffer..., ourselves, to endure an eighty-five-per-cent, with a debt that has accumulated, of more than 3,500_million euros for years, and that they do not return to us. But we don't say it; this time you were added to it, and they told us..., you were made yourself a young man who claimed that the Spanish government complemented the percentages of funding between Catalonia and the State. Miri, I think they're coming to our point: a good financing improves the situation of the lives of all Catalans. I invite you to change again, because it is much more natural for our band to see you. [[Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.45.0	I, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies, and also to the public that accompanies us. Well, all the members of this chamber know that the arrival of the covid has put into question the residential model and the set of services intended for the attention of the great people. Let's repeat this again, because we have said it several times in this room: this fact has not been a phenomenon. Unfortunately, these countries had to adapt to the complex circumstances involved in the pandemic, and that also happened in Catalonia. We have accepted several points in the motion for a resolution, Mrs Grau, but in others, as you will understand further, we have not been able to find ourselves at all. You in various points of this young man have categorized the management of the Catalonian pandemic as harmful. Well, let me remind you, as Glòria Freixa has done, that the management of the pandemic of the previous legislature, of the previous government..., acted with the utmost speed to attend to the outbreaks of the covid-19 to the different residents, whether public or private, by means of coordination between the departments and the territorial teams, social agents, trade unions, employers and the firm commitment of the professionals, among many other activities. We consider that going through this task is not to value or consider the effort of so many people and institutions who literally left their hair behind. From here, obviously – we've done it many times and we'll never get tired of doing it – all of our recognition. In this legislature we believe that it is up to us to attend to and guarantee the models of fair attention and in harmony with the needs and preferences of our great people. The presuppositions have widened to be able to do so. It's been donated to the social and health agency. We have constituted, as the companies that preceded me have said, the Working Group of Analysis of the Impact of the Covid-19 in the Residences. And we've done this by setting up some objectives that will help us identify the fevers in the residential environment to propose solutions, Mrs. Grau, and also recommend on the part of the experts in the matter. From the Republican Left we will always find, in a constructive and non-destructive way, looking for measures that help to repair many of the discomforts that have suffered and continue to paint the great people of Catalonia. And, in fact, I would also like to take advantage of this intervention to invite all of us to rethink the services we have for the great people. How many of the people who are on the waiting list to access a residence could be susceptible to other services for the great people? Several times in this chamber we have discussed respect for the lists of expectations and also the resolution of the degrees of dependence, and there is work and decisions have been made to respect. We know that the construction of residences, obviously, can smooth the waiting lists, but will we really end up with most of the discomforts that our great people present in today's world? We don't think so. And with the effects of the pandemic, we are clearly seeing an increase in the demand for home services, which invites us to take into account the importance of people-centred care. Let's rethink the services, put at the center the import of the determinations and preferences of the only protagonists: the great people. And, in this line, we believe that the integral agency needs to comprehensively address personal autonomy and dependence. We have the challenge of laying down social policies applying strategies from optimism and creativity, facing the new democratic changes that are emerging. I, let us repeat this, constructively, as a Member. Every time there are bigger people, that's a reality. The age of life is widening, and our service needs to serve the great people respecting dignity and fostering their autonomy. And, finally, deputies and deputies, president, will allow me in the twenty-two..., twenty-seconds, already, I can..., speaking today of the great people's movement, I have the honor that today a person who is considered – why not? – too, from this stage of the life of the great people. Mr. Ahmed Idriouich accompanied me, on the first day of the Moroccan Masnou, who was the father that our parents held here, and for my generation, for many masnovins and masnovines, he was our bird. Ahmed, welcome – known to many –, welcome to this hemicicle, which is also your home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.47.0	Next, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy lady Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we have begun the debate of the motions talking about covid with the motion that we have presented since the CUP - A New Cycle to Win, and we proposed, precisely, to critically review all the policies and decisions taken in the different areas. Obviously, the decisions that were taken in the area of the residences of great people would also fit in. The decisions that have been taken and that continue to be taken recently, because, in fact, we have seen how it has been decided to detail the hours of specialists, of specialist staff; we have seen how they are limited or how they continue to limit the exits of residents..., questions that we think should continue to be checked or reviewed. In this sense, moreover, the UPC has repeatedly expressed the need not only to clarify what has happened, but also to clear responsibilities with regard to thousands of patients, users and residents of large people who lost their lives in the pandemic; six thousand officially, more than two thousand people who died with symptoms compatible with the covid-19, but not confirmed. More than eight thousand people, therefore, have lost their lives in these great people's homes. We will not tire of repeating it: the images, the reality that we saw in these residencies was striking, it was terrifying. And behind these images we think that there are responsible for names and surnames, responsible for political bodies that decided that residents should not go to the hospital, responsible for who was directing these residences and responsible for who was behind these great companies that managed the residences, and that they were unable to deploy all the resources needed to deal with this situation. We therefore share the criticism of the management that has come to an end and also the need to clear responsibilities. In addition, we have already expressed the need for an investigation commission to be completed. In response to Mr Alonso, who previously told us that we had not done enough, look, we already knew that they were presenting this committee less than an hour before the formalization, we explained to him when the creation of this committee was discussed in Parliament. In fact, we were the main ones interested in giving continuity to a proposal that we submitted in the last legislature. Therefore, we cannot be accused of not having an interest in being simplified and having completed this committee of inquiry, which we believe is what we really need in this Parliament: to continue the task begun in the last parliamentary term. We also share the need to audit all contracts between the Generality and the entities and companies that manage the residents of large people. In fact, in the past plenary, we asked for explanations regarding all the money given, the millions of euros given to more than a dozen residents of large people, who, therefore, had to reserve empty spaces to accommodate users of sick residents of coves, and who were there, empty; more than 7.8 million euros given and we said that they had to be audited. Therefore, we agree and will vote in favour of most of the points of this young man, despite the bias of his party in neoliberal and Spanish terms. But more than a few matizable questions, which we will refrain from in a few points, we have found four questions missing that we believe are essential, because what went to the residences was difficult, it was very difficult, but it made manifest the perversion of this model that we have and gave ourselves already, we understand, that they are lessons that we can apply. First, change the model and leave behind the model of parking that we have, big parking lots of our great people, parking lots of the non-productive sectors of the population. Secondly, to guarantee decent working conditions for the group of workers and workers of the residences of large people, because they are tired and full of thanks and recognition; what they want is to be able to develop their tasks with better working conditions. And here we talk about stability, equipment. And, certainly today is International Day of Nursing, and when we talk about nurses and nurses working in the homes of great people..., what they want is to have their work conditions lined up with those of their public health associates and associates. Thirdly, we have found that when we talk about inspections, so we say that when there are difficulties, we are able to contract these companies and that they cannot opt for competitions. And lastly, what you already know, Member of Parliament: we need a hundred_per_cent public model, because these companies that manage our residences don't do it for altruism or for the sake of art, they do it to make a profit. And they work at the expense of exploiting their workers and at the expense of retailing in care quality. For us... I'm telling you, huh? , we will vote in favour of most points, but we have found that these four questions are missing. And, concretely – and I finish – when we talk about a public one-hundred-per-cent system, we think that if you don't point it at it, it's because they don't care much to bother these large groups that manage the residences. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.49.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.50.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's go with the amendments. To the gentlemen of the CUP, well, we also thank you for some points, despite the Stalinist bias of your party's pay. We also agree with some of your appreciation. They could have been materialized in the form of amendments, but, well, I believe that some points that suggest are already in the motion; I suggest that they hit him with a new reading. And no, we are not in favour of a public health 100_per_cent, not because we are neoliberal, but because we believe that the public system is managing badly right now. That is why we have not accepted the amendment by VOX, which reinforces our audit request, but of course we ask that the results of that audit be presented to Parliament and you propose that they be presented to the same departments to audit. Of course, the fox's self-auditing doesn't help chickens much, but... To the governing groups..., thank you for nothing – thank you for nothing. Well, I think it has become clear, with the successive interventions, that you have not only had a harmful management, but also, unfortunately, an overpowering one. You haven't even asked for forgiveness. The case of other administrations has been cited here. Well, the councillor for social affairs in the Community of Madrid, Alberto Reyero, resigned, resigned in protest of how certain decisions were being made by the Ayuso government, very similar to others that were made here. Here he doesn't quit or god, whatever happens, there's nine thousand dead or even people ask him on the street. And, of course, you have no credibility in anything you raise. And that is why we must ask these committees of inquiry, of study and of everything, which I ask all the opposition groups to take them seriously. The commons..., thank you for insisting on the committee of inquiry, which for us that is..., we do not give up on it, the working group is a starting point. And to the Socialist Party, do not give us any lessons of opposition: ask the commission of inquiry and make opposition. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.51.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will be on this media, once we substantiate item 20 on the agenda. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the financing of the third social sector]] [[302-00139/13]] Let us now turn to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the financing of the third social sector. It was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will advise the objectives of our parliamentary group when we presented this motion were three of them. First of all, to put the importance of the third social sector in our social protection system, but also in our education and education system. To urge the Government to pay, to urge the Government to resolve in time and form the subsidies it has with the third social sector. And get rid of this notion that we are often in the third social sector, that we are in a minority or that we are in a situation of undermining it, and that we are in a position to put all the costs of not having a finance in time, a just finance, and that we must therefore make efforts to offer the same services that we know that they will have to offer and that they are probably the ones that we are in charge of until then. I take this opportunity to welcome the President of the Third Social Sector of Catalonia, Mrs. Francina Alsina, and also the members of her board of directors, Mr. Roger Civit and Mrs. Marta Obdúlia. With these three objectives, as I said..., we have examined, moreover, the proposals that have come to us from the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, from the commons and VOX. I thank the facility, too, for reaching agreement with Mr. David Saldoni and Mrs. Jess González, as well as their own contributions to the third social sector. Distinguished points of this young man. In the first place, urge the council to complete what was compromised. And, therefore, the creation, in one_month's terms, of a working group between the third social sector and the Generality to improve the current system of subsidies. Compliment, I insist, which is promised. Second, schedule grant calls– schedule grant calls. As we have to see each other. So yes, a calendar. Among other things, because entities are not found giving you services that do not know whether the year you see them will charge them or not. Or, even so, whether the same year they are offering a service to the citizenry, whether they charge it or not. This can't happen. In a country that we want modern, in a country that we want efficient and, moreover, with other autonomous communities that are able to do so, we are not able to do this. Therefore, let us pray that it is paid in time and in shape, but above all that it is given security to entities. Also for what he does to the IRPF. Since the IRPF managed it by the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, we paid it later than when it was managed by the Government of the State. So a few lessons, too, among other things, or a few demands on those who did it before they did it better than we did at these times. Third point: straighten the projects. There are some of the projects that are financed via COSPE via IRPF and that are projects that have to be financed through a portfolio of social services. Madam Counselor, I remind you of your commitment to open this year's portfolio of social services. Let's hope it's that way, after eleven years of freezing social services in Catalonia. Four: simplify procedures. This applies to the third social sector and generally to the public administration. Bureaucracy is probably a virus that escapes for administration and that separates us every day more from the city council. And five: reply to the submissions presented in a term probably..., well, in a term that could be twenty-five days or publish the scores of the projects together with the provisional resolution. These are some small changes that would improve or make our system much more effective. No doubt that in a surgical intervention... we know that it has a high cost; therefore, many times, when they make a surgical intervention to the public tell us what cost this surgical intervention. We know that if resources are doubled for this intervention, this cannot be done with guarantees. Social intervention is also done, but this approach is not useful for social intervention. When we reduce subsidies, when we pay late, when we don't pay when we play, we are reducing the effectiveness of services such as accompanying abused women, caring for homeless people, infants who must be protected by the Public Administration. We're talking about risky collections. And, therefore, when we fail to achieve our social system we are also undermining the quality of life of the people. And then we can't fill our mouths talking about inequalities. The inequalities in our country can only be fought with effective social policies, and they are a great shame that does not allow our country to evolve in terms of equal opportunities. If we want a modern society we have to make this important bet for the social financing of entities in the third sector of our country. I've got the feeling. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish with this – that, even so, with the papers presented, there is no firm will of this government because this can be reversed. But in any case, I'll refer to it on the next round. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.53.0	Next, has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.54.0	Thank you, President. We believe that I should like to thank the Socialist Group for the presentation of this motion, above all for the detailed and technical aspects it raises. We believe that it is also an advance to the law of the third sector, that it is already working..., and we also take advantage of it to recognize the representatives of the Third Sector Table and all the entities of the third sector, that are hundreds, are thousands of entities, that are each day offering a service that, often, the public administrations do not have the capacity to offer. We defend that basic rights, that access to basic public services must be an exclusive competence and responsibility of public administration. But we also believe that in some of these themes there may be concerts, there may be agreements, there may be co-management, there may be co-production of policies and co-execution of policies with third sector entities, which, moreover, have a specialized trajectory, in many of their activist cases, and which have often been ahead of them and have followed those that have promoted some of the laws that have guaranteed basic rights here. For example, the law of male violence, which is in force in Catalonia, both the first proposal and the reform that we have made in the past legislature, are not possible and do not have the content that does not have the contributions of all entities and social organizations that work in the first line with victims of male violence. It was these contributions that got rich and landed the law. Therefore, we consider that they are key actors in the time to co-produce policies and to manage and respond to basic services. But it is also true that we are key actors in a situation of precariousness, abandonment, improvisation and lack of planning in finance, in their activities and in what they are dedicated to, which has no sense of justification. That's why it's not just a social rights issue – which it will also – and actually a lot of the help and subsidies that are given to third-sector entities are to provide services that they have to see with social rights; but not just. And we have commented on this on other occasions with the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms: the precariousness and lack of planning and capacity of entities working with victims of male violence makes many of them unable to give or guarantee a good service. And we had Tamaia's painful confinement, about a year ago, which just one of the things he denounced was that a reference and historical entity in the spotlight and the work with victims of male rape had to be closed because the Administration was unable to guarantee it when it would not receive the resources, nor how much they would want these resources, and because they would have to spend more time justifying, projecting, making certificates and searching for how many things I would almost attend to victims of male rape. And this precariousness brought them to the tank. To an entity referring to Catalonia. Therefore, it is a reflection that needs to be done to the Government in all its senses, because we need to take a step further beyond the logic of the grant and the timely help. If they are entities that are working together with the Government, providing a service that the Government should provide and that the Government, for various reasons, chooses to do so through these entities, it cannot be treated as if they were entities that have no projector, no impactor, no objectives, no responsibility and no compromise with the people they serve and with whom they work. There are many entities that manage emergency habitats, for example; entities that don't know when they're going to charge what they're paying for that emergency habitat that they're lending to the family. Therefore, what compromises can these entities have to have these floors of emergence, which moreover does not have the Government of Catalonia. I mean, the generality doesn't have the Emergence Floors, it hires entities to put it in the Emergence Floors, but then they don't know when they're gonna pay it or how they're gonna pay it. And the other issue is working conditions and precariousness. Because working with third-sector entities to provide public services does not mean prechariting their workers, it does not mean that they have to work for less than they would have worked if there was a public service provided for a public administration. And that's what we're doing. Therefore, the third sector cost table needs to be reviewed; it needs to be reviewed and it is urgent. And we can't donate subsidies either, depending on who presents us with the lowest proposal. That's why a concert law, which we've been working on for a long time, that we've been claiming for a long time, that it started with very little for the misremembered Aragonese law of the past legislature, that it's lost a key opportunity and that what's become very clear is that first a concert law that rules all of this; that we move forward with, for example, multi-year concerts and arrangements with specialized entities that guarantee you can set goals, results and indicators to a medium and long term, not every year longer than when the grant comes, what it is that you ask for this year and that you may have to go ahead with your money so that you don't pay for it until four months after, and then you pay for the money that you've paid for. Therefore, an effective answer already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.55.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Elisa García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Requests the PSC in this motion to regulate subsidies to third sector entities. And what my group is asking is, why do NGOs have to deal with the social deficiencies of Catalans? Do we not all pay taxes to ensure that the Department of Social Rights handles this task? Returning to the unfortunate reality, we must recognize the work and the work that certain entities in the third sector do in Catalonia. And even more so now, when arbitrary decisions, during the various waves of the pandemic, have ruined thousands of small entrepreneurs and worsened the already poor situation of poverty and social needs that existed. The truth is that you, gentlemen of the PSC, know the shortcomings on your finger, because you have been dragging for fifteen years. They had them in their hand and they didn't. They have been in this Parliament for years, ruling or supporting separatist governments, who do nothing for the people and who have avoided their hardships. They know very well that the social needs, which try to cover the third sector, are their responsibility; of the left which distributes high offices and places friends and associates in the ACC or in the Union of Accounts; of that left of the hall whose sole object is to maintain itself and its acolytes; of that left which has been holding the hand of separatism for years on its way to rob the people to cover the ideological agenda of hatred and destruction. You Catalans don't care. They vote against VOX's proposals, even in the motion on social rights policy, months ago, which we tabled to eliminate waiting lists for dependency or social housing or geriatric residences, and which aimed to reduce the famine of Catalan children. The 58,930 Catalans who live in infra-housing or on the street; the 462,000 children and adolescents at risk of extreme poverty, or the 78,542 dependent people who need help, cannot wait. They do not understand anti-democratic cordons or political rivalries. They just need all of us to solve their problems as soon as possible, and a few months ago better than today. [[Greetings.]] What highlights your attitude is that neither you nor the separatists have any intention of helping the third sector. They deny the greatest, the harsh reality: their full responsibility for many citizens suffering. This is nothing more than your political passport, where every stamp is a legislature in which you and the separatists ruin Catalans a little more. And so they've been filling out all their pages for years. And the consequence is this: that today we are debating how to regularize aid to non-profit entities to cover the shortcomings that have caused all the governments in which you and the separatists have participated. I hope that sooner the citizens will withdraw that passport and will not be able to continue destroying and ruining Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.57.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.58.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, president and director of the table, also welcome. And I would like to refocus a little debate on the subject that we are dealing with, because it is very easy, therefore, to launch headlines and launch according to what we are proclaiming, but it is precisely what we are doing – and I believe that we must start and that it is justiciative – to recognize all the good work that is being done, in this case, from the field of the third sector, from the field of entities, that in one way or another contribute to the dynamism, to the social action of our country, to the Community dynamism and also, in this case, of a very important and remarkable form, also in the management of services from the own administration, from the own portfolio of social services, which can also be done from the outset and associations from the third sector. So, so, all this good work is what it is, and that's why different instruments are needed. For a band, the instruments we've been working on... and that's the law of concerted action. Therefore, of being able to go through it too – and it is said in the motion –..., all those services that lend by means of grants must be able to move, in this case, to concerted action; therefore, in the realization, in this case, of concerts that do not require subsidies. But we also need to highlight all the work there is, let's say, based on grants. And, therefore, subsidies are a very good instrument because many entities can develop services and can also do actions and activities within the country. So, so, this job we need to be able to do. And what this young man is trying to do – and where we've been trying to introduce some ideas too – is trying to improve this process, right? Therefore, in this sense, being able to work with the support plan for the third sector... is a good tool. And, therefore, that there is a mixed work group, as is also being done by the Department of Social Rights..., meet monthly, so that you can have a good engagement committee and be able to go along with all the work you do. There's got to be this space to be able to work, to be able to plan the grants, and to be able to talk about it. But we also need to be very realistic and we need to be very aware of which calendars we can work to do so. And here I think we must always try to work with a good mutual understanding to be able, therefore, to plan the subsidies. And we're talking about things we need to put down. In the call of the IRPF's money, which is approximately 35_million euros, there are 1,638 unique projects. Analyzing, working 1,638 unique projects generates a lot of work that sometimes, therefore, cannot be completed either with the terms with which we would like to all, and that would be that the last quarter of a year we have everything planned and the first quarter of the current year we have everything resolved and paid for. Sometimes this is not possible, and so I think it's very good that we can have this space so we can work and plan. But it's not just the IRPF, it's the entity grants... we're talking about two types. There are already a few multiannuals, which we think is a very good system and that we need to be able to explore it. And there are also annuals. The annuals, which we are talking about an import of 19_million euros, we are talking about more than 1,400 actions that are present in these grants. Therefore, in addition to each other we are already at three thousand only in these two aspects. Therefore, there is a lot of work that is thanks to the dynamism, action, of the people of our country who present projects, who present ideas. Access, in this case, to the review of those who go with a portfolio of services or grants. This is where we can keep working. We need to be able to talk about this strategic plan as well as subsidies, which has worked together in the departments, so that we can use it, because we also have – all the departments have – and it comes out in an ugly way – reference people in order to be able to make this follow-up, this legal support, this being to the other side of the phone when someone has to ask for subsidies, which is so complicated. Simplify requests, clear bases, eligible expenses, etc. All over this block we agree. There is one part, Mr Moreno – whom we are grateful for, therefore, the predisposition to be able to agree – in which we cannot vote in favour, which are economic issues, since there is a petition for the possibility of subsidizing labour costs, reductions, compensations for at the same time, indirect spending, expenditure to finance... In this sense, it is not possible to decide simply here, but there is a part that depends on the general bases, of everything that is decided in the reference of these subsidies, of what is eligible and what is not eligible. So, at this point, we can't compromise it because it can't be. What we have worked on is that we can, in this case, have a share of project readaptation when they give you grants. You ask for a project that cost you a thousand, they give you only a thousand; so you can't do it. That you can re-adapt this project and make it possible. Therefore, in most of us we have been able to agree; in some points we will have to abstain. And what we want to highlight, in this case, is trust in entities, trust in the third sector, trust in public-private collaboration as a great system of work and dynamism in our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.59.0	I, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the parable of the deputy Mrs Maria Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.60.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, members of the Third Sector Table, Catalonia has different social entities that conform to an amp fabric that directs solidarity, social organization and community participation towards the different collections of our society. And we can say that covid-19 has further corroborated this entity idiosyncrasy. The strategic social services platform considers third-sector entities as agents necessary to define, implement and follow the strategic social services platform and as providers. The third sector involving cooperative arrangements with representative entities has been promoted: the Third Sector Social Entity Table, the Federation of Catalan Social Welfare Institutions, the Confederation and the Third Sector Observers. But it needs more and, basically, it needs to improve its financing. And going directly to what we propose his motion, we fully agree in many points, and I give some examples. We agree and we will vote in favour of the first point. In a complex society with complex needs, cross-sectoral work is essential in order to generate a clear and shared conceptual _framework between the Catalan social service system and the rest of the systems. And in this market, third-sector entities have a key role to play. One of the objectives of the republican government is to be connected to the entities that transform and work to resolve the different needs of Catalan citizenship. The participation of the Third Sector Table of Entities in the different spheres of our country's social policies must be encouraged. Therefore, we fully agree with the first point of your proposal. We need coordination of all the funding lines of these entities and therefore we will vote in favour. With the third point we also agree. I need to review which projects are subsidized and move to the service portfolio. And the department is already doing it. The system and grant management is better; there is no doubt about it, and they also refer to it in this case. But as at this point they're talking about the IRPF's cargo aids, I'm gonna hang in there for a while. Today, the entities of the third sector of Catalonia can only perceive the eighty_per_cent of the funds coming from 0.7_per_cent collected in the solidary box in Catalonia, which is the part managed by the Generality, so that the remaining twenty_per_cent manages the State. From the Republican Left we have long claimed that this double-track system should be eliminated so that the Catalan social entities would have 100_per_cent of what is in place for the declaration of income for social purposes in Catalonia; that it was managed directly and in the hands of the Generality, because, in agreement with the entities of the third sector, the bases could be laid down for the distribution of these funds. So far we haven't been out, as we don't know exactly what the recaptated imports are. I take this opportunity to ask the members of the Spanish Government, both socialist and common, to join this demand and to make it possible for this cent_per_cent of the IRPF to be able to revert to projects generated by the social entities of our country. As for the papers that we have jointly submitted with Juntes, they are not of the essence, you have already seen, because with the essence of their requests we are totally in agreement. We have outlined points 5 and 6 with the aim of expanding the content of these provisions, since since the Government of the Generality has been working on the decentralisation of many management centres, as well as on the communication channels of public administrations. We mentioned points 9, 10 and 11 and he was already commenting on it to Congressman Saldoni. They ask us to incorporate a follow-up of eligible expenditure. We can't generalize, depending on what type of subsidy and where your funds are coming from, there are norms that affect them, these funds, and that condition these expenses that are eligible. In the rest of the statements, basically, we point them out. I'll give you an example. At the 12th point, they're talking about resolving the grievances in the interest of delay. The point that we have presented to you is that the government of the state is to regulate it, that regulation with regard to the interests of delay is determined by the basic state legislation. To conclude, from Esquerra Republicana we know that the entities of the third social sector have a fundamental role in the provision of public services for the care of people, with added value, with a citizen base with a social, community and organizational vocation, and that they have generated a citizen confidence in a first-class care fabric. That's where the administration didn't know how to get there, that's where the entities came in. It is here that we agree that it is the responsibility of all the public that we can guarantee its continuity and sustainability. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.61.0	After the defense round of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.62.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... and the Socialist Parliamentary Group for having presented this motion subsequent to the inquiry. Well, go ahead before we have the requests that are made in this young man's post appear to us to be very small, in the sense that..., very consistent with the reality that the third sector currently has. And that can't be denied. Now, it is true that we consider that precisely because the task of the third sector of entities is absolutely essential, the task of the third sector of entities, as expressed by the self-organised civil society which has to deal with the lack of care on the part of the Administration, is to see the task of self-organizing itself on the part of entities, collectivities, which, from years ago, have been providing care on the part of the Administration, in matters as fundamental as childcare, care for young people, care for old age, care for vulnerable situations, etc.; situations which are closed to ensure the welfare of the majority of the population and that, in any case, it is the responsibility of the third sector to show them. Therefore, in this sense, we believe that it is very necessary to facilitate access to the financing of these entities, because at present we consider that the subsidy system, as it stands, let us say, at present, therefore, it is a violence exercise for these entities, which must lose much of their attention to citizenship and to the people, in order to allocate it to bureaucracy, that it could effectively simplify itself by many means, to a great extent. And on some occasion we have also talked, from this Faristol, from our parliamentary group, about the special gravity that this situation that we call institutional violence to the civil society self-organized in the form of entities, specifically shaped in entities formed by people who are migrants and racialized, that have, therefore, this more than not to have the necessary context to understand well how the Catalan public system works. Now, what we always say is that the essential public services, the basic social services, in this case, must always be a hundred_per_cent supply, management and public finance. And this is a reality that many times plays with entities, with the existence of entities in the third sector. And, somehow, it could be understood that we advocate because it does not exist, when it is not more far away; it is to say, we value your pocket so much, we recognize your pocket so much, that we believe it must be integrated into this public service. Because, in the end, what we see is that there are decades and decades of shortcomings on the part of the Administration in which these services are covered by the entities of the third sector and thus the Administration, therefore, it is exempt from the responsibility that it has to cover these services, precisely, because as they have already been managed by entities, therefore, it is dedicated to strengthening the public-private contracting system, in accounts of moving towards a guarantee of universality, coverage, of basic social services, in this case. Therefore, for us all the measures proposed here, to which most of us will vote in favour..., not in all of them, obviously, because there are some questions that seem to us to support this system, let us say to ourselves, ad ernum, without a temporization that we believe indispensable. All these measures should be focused or embedded in a planning to understand that the existence of the public-private system to cover basic social services must always be temporary, and the Administration must have a plan to incorporate these services into the public portfolio and to ensure that the services that are intended are universal and do not fall within the case-file of whether or not there is in the municipality or territory the existence of entities that cover this lack on the part of the Administration. Therefore, as I said, we will vote in favour of most of the points; in some others we will abstain. And we will continue to fight for basic social services one hundred_per_cent public and covered and universal throughout the population, regardless of the territory. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.63.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Congressman Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.64.0	President, Members, Members, Councillor... First, I think it is important that we have this debate here and, therefore, also give thanks to the PSC, the Socialist Group, to carry it, as a minimum, and to be able to debate some points that are essentially important for the third sector. Also, welcome, the representatives of the third sector today to the chamber. I want to start with a previa, and that's what it seemed to me..., it's funny this debate, because, in the end, I've seen, and that I forgive Mrs. Change, too, but..., a certain coincidence between the one who defended VOX and the one who defended the CUP, in some way, is to say, that..., I know that not with, say, the same point of view, certainly not with the same intention, but there is a certain willingness that this private initiative that we defend the liberals, and that, therefore, we would always agree with this, not much before or would not defend it in the same way. And both of them, therefore, with this paternalistic policy, if they leave me, as a paternalist state, that they have one and the other, they want this to be done by the public system. I believe that there is a debate on how far the service of third-sector entities has to come, which must, in the end, cover the third sector of civil society, are private initiatives, many of them individual, are social dynamism; it is very diverse, and I think we need to get it straight. And that's important. That's why we're working on a law that also, from different points of view, and just as we ourselves have already done to Castella and Lleó, for example, where a third-sector law was approved, and to other places that were already with that law or were straightening it out..., we think we need to pull forward and find these coincidences that we will surely manage to have. For us..., we also wanted..., or at least we wanted to collect a portion of what he has already announced or is, in some way, exposing the third sector to March. I've read the claims about the situation you're in. The third sector wants recognition first, which I think we can do with the law we're working on. The third sector wants fairer financing. And I do know that he's been defended at different times and that I think this young man, somehow, backs it up. He wants me to make commitments, and he wants me to be full. And this is a message for the Councilwoman: I think that some of the Members who are here have seen how there have been commitments on the part of the governments – I have seen it since 2015 – and that they have not complied. This happens a lot– in fact, it happens a lot in this Parliament – so there are motions and there are resolutions that urge the government to do things that it is not then a fan. But, well, we always have, so, this will to look forward and have some faith that this will not happen again. Maybe it won't happen again, and I hope that, at least, this will happen and all that can be done for the third sector, so you pull in and you can finish. And then there is a demand about the need for a certain equality of labour or, at least, a certain willingness to work justice for workers, for more than one hundred and thousand workers in the third sector in Catalonia. I think that we, like the party of this chamber and Catalan and liberal, can gather a good part of this and there is a good part of what the SCP motion stands for, so that we will vote in favour. But we wanted to vote with a certain will, at least, to safeguard certain principles. One, for us, is that there's a certain regularity in everything that comes along. That is to say, regularity is what makes the work and the work that the third sector does. If, for example, there is no regularity in the calls, no regularity in the policies to be offered and no subsidies to be given to the third sector, it will be difficult for them to work with this disabled. We wanted to be advocates of flexibility, too. A certain flexibility that can make when the third sector cannot be planned, so it can adapt to the reality that they are painted. And we wanted to be objective and also responsible. And it is also true that there is some proposal from the PSC that we will not vote in favour, because we believe that it cannot be collected directly, at least without speaking openly before. But I think that in general... we are in favour, obviously, of introducing, therefore, complaints of delaying interests or of being able to adapt the memoranda of action, it is obvious; but then I think that introducing some of the expenses or extending, to these grant bases, all the expenses that are in the third sector, well, so that I approve it here in a young man, for us... at least we have certain doubts. And that's why in a few points of these we'll abstain. But, well, I think we're more or less in the same line. I was pleased to see, therefore, that we are liberal and that there is one side and another that we are not. And at least politics is for that. Many thanks, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.65.0	So, finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mr Raúl Moreno returns to hold the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.66.0	Quickly. Thank you, President. We've accepted Republican Left transactions, together and in common. And, therefore, I think there has been a little, in general, a motion that can please a large part of the parliamentary groups. Some quick answers. Mrs de VOX, you, Mrs Elisa, have said that third sector entities cannot offer services. Why do third - sector entities have to provide services? And why does Florentino Pérez have to offer them? Why? Why not the third sector and private companies? It does not make much sense and, in any case, it is an important ignorance of how the third sector has influenced the Catalonia we have. You have a very great ignorance of the country you intend to govern, and that is noted in each of your interventions, isn't it? His contribution to the motion has, in fact, been to change a word, to remove the 'agreement', and to establish it. Ball point. This is all their contribution to the financing of the third social sector. It is not true, well, it is not entirely true, you have also contributed things like voting against the revaluation of pensions, voting against the rise of the minimum wage, voting against the increase of the minimum living income, the social bonus of electricity, the laws against gender-based violence. That is the contribution that VOX makes, in any case, also to the services offered by the third social sector. The lady will advise and the ladies and gentlemen who have spoken. The young lady doesn't ask as long as she's paid more, but she's putting order in the pay. And that I think we don't have to take care of each other. It must not be so difficult to pay a certain day, a determined day, with a certain constancy, with a certain temporality. Because if you don't, let's turn it off and let's go. We've been unable for two years to do this, not to be able to do it now... I think it may be difficult, but it has to be determined. On the distribution of the IRPF. The Generalitat manages the IRPF's eighty_per_cent and sets the conditions and sets the payment terms. That's why they pay late. And that's why they pay late. He was paying more than an hour ago. And I just ended up, president, saying that the third sector is not four retreats– with the forgiveness of the third sector–, we talk about three_ thousand entities, one hundred_ thousand workers, 5,500_million euros, a 2.8_percent of GDP, 300,000 volunteers and more than 2_million people to whom they give the services. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.67.0	Thank you very much. So we're done with the debate, so I'm guessing that this guy's vote is gonna do this half a time we're done with number 20. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into right-wing policies and child opportunities]] [[302-0140/13]] Let us now turn to the new point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the policies relating to the rights and opportunities of childhood, which the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can introduce. And she has the word, to expose her, Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.68.0	Thank you, President. So in this House we've had a monographic ple on youth, we've talked about big people a moment ago and now we're talking about childhood. Normally, when we are talking about population groups and their specific needs, a lot of consensus is generated in this Parliament. But a lot of consensus doesn't translate into concrete policies and concrete assumptions at times. And that's why we've introduced this young man, who's following the question we've already made a couple of weeks on the right of childhood. First of all, to thank the parliamentary groups that have moved to improve, to contribute to this proposal – the governing groups, the Socialist Party, the Candidature for Popular Unity and Citizens – that we have accepted prompt statements and transactions from all these groups, with which I hope this is translated into the fact that this young man comes forward with the necessary votes to advance the rights of childhood. When asked specifically, we said that we know that the sources of poverty that affect the poor child – worth the redundancy – in Catalonia they have to see job insecurity, they have to see exorbitant prices and the excessive cost of housing, as well as the deficit, above all the historical deficit in public expenditure per child and social protection policies for their families. So this young man is trying to focus on three main axes. The first is prevention, the prevention of the child poverty in concrete terms, and using specifically the policy of rendering, in this sense, that it is a tool we already have, so as to fight and improve the taxes of the child poverty that we have in the country. A concrete point that we approve is that Parliament sees the need to intensify public policies of return, because of equal opportunities, which lowers the burden on families with children, especially in the case of single-marital families. And we celebrate it, because we hope that this implies that the process of guaranteed citizenship income will be disrupted. Now we know that the Commission of the Government of the Guaranteed Income is making a whole series of studies or jobs that will help us move towards a modification of the income, which we consider, from Comú Podemos, that is the tool we have, so as to fight the poor child. We also have another point, which is not mentioned, and we don't know what will happen, about the IRSC, about Catalonia's sufficiency income index, which we know is what marks all the aid that goes to Catalonia and that is frozen more than two years ago and that we expect it to come forward, all that we have doubts about, because the government already when it presented the assumptions of the past year we saw that it was not a concern or an intention that it had. Second place, after prevention, attention and, specifically, the protection system. For a band, the attention system for things where we put the accent. And we have points to the point that we are talking about these issues: we adopt a specific measure in which the Government is committed to presenting a report on the compliment of the best plan of the system of care for children and adolescents and their families in a situation of vulnerability, especially for what it does to the measures implemented for DGAIA and the comprehensive review of the system of protection. And this is what we expect to be fulfilled, because here we have to worry about what the perspective is – what is the model that we are setting up, the model of protection – the one of follow-up and psychoeducational development or "security," isn't it? If they are children or children who have often been expelled from a failed protection system or who have had to emigrate from their country, what we want is precisely that it is complex and that it is not an element of social control or a mere criminalization of childhood. We've been talking about presumptively giving shrinking strategies to teenagers in the place of this crime we talked about before. We've also talked about rights and opportunities... I'm sorry, before that, we've talked about CDIAPs, putting a special emphasis on the working conditions of professionals who are dedicated to early care, of the routes they have. And here there was also a government commitment in this sense. And lastly, the rights and opportunities, which speak above all of the leurea, which speak of the inclusive school, which speak of universalizing the attention and activities of the leurea and which are not a scene of segregation for the childhood of our country. We hope to count on the support necessary to advance in the rights of the childhood of Catalonia and above all that is concretely concrete in actions by the Government of the Generality and that the childhood of Catalonia enjoys rights in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.69.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Socialists and Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group, the first speaker is Mrs Judit Alcalá.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. MPs, MPs, first of all, we want to share and share the sentiment of the motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can on policies related to the rights and opportunities of childhood. And from our parliamentary group we have presented papers with the intention of summarizing and because we believe that I could enrich the motion. I would also like to thank Mrs Jessica González for her willingness to reach agreement on most of the points tabled for our parliamentary group. And I also take this opportunity to sincerely thank the third sector and the professionals who work and make a remarkable pocket day by day with children and adolescents. Entering the subject, the youth call the increase in the number of infants who are found in a poor situation in Catalonia. There are studies that warn of this complex situation. And to give an example, a study prepared for the Autonomous University of Barcelona and the Centre d'Estudis Demográfics, the poor work is concentrated in low-income families with a single worker. To be accurate, describe that thirty-two per cent of all households with these characteristics are poor. And they concluded that the poor labor and the child were linked; conclusions that we share. Just as we also share the obligation of public authorities to take an urgent approach to eradicate this poor child, which would add that it was an effective, cross-cutting and also comprehensive approach. In their case, they ask to modify the guaranteed income of citizens with criteria that enclose having children in care; to modify and extend the requirements because they can receive this benefit, so it would help to lower the index of poor children. We're on board, aren't we? , because there are reports that they also say that this guaranteed income is only above the two-per-cent of families and twenty-three-per-cent of people in social exclusion. We share the update of the Catalonia sufficiency income index, frozen since 2010, because this indicator is the most referenced to access various social services in Catalonia. Our deputy said it a lot, didn't he? , the increase only of a 5.03_per_cent of this indicator would suppose that 300,000 people accessing various social services, among them, this income guaranteed. You are also asking for a compliment report on the best plan of the system of care for children and adolescents and their families in a situation of vulnerability; that we already find it good, huh? , but we also believe that it is important to account for the level of assimilation of these specific objectives of this plan that are derived from each of the strategic objectives, as well as the indicators used to assess the achievement of the objectives. I will hear many times: without indicators there can be no good assessment, because the indicators mark the lines and the starting points for us. Why would we evaluate the compliment without indicators? Based on what? We believe that these indicators of what we are doing in the fear that they have rejected us, because at this time we do not yet have these indicators on the part of the Government. We also share the need for the compliment of the right subject of infants and their families to pay attention to the specialized early care in a universal way, free in quality and quantity. In this sense, our parliamentary group has put forward a motion for a resolution, you have to make a couple of months, on the early-warning centre, asking for an increase in the number of hours of service and also to review the tariffs that the CDIAP network collects, which has been approved, for sure, and we expect you to pull forward quickly. And on the increase of investments in nine school places, certain that it is necessary to allocate resources to advance in the universalization of the phase of zero-three years creating public places, and that we add that it is in a balanced way to the territory, prioritizing the municipalities with more difficulty of access to this educational service. We believe that it is necessary to articulate a public system that guarantees access to education for all children and adolescents, and one that guarantees 365 days a year, because it is an inclusive and socializing element for children and adolescents. And without going further, this diumenge there was a feast of pleasure; a feast was attended by schools and delights, and the need for education as an integrative model was latent. To advance that we will give support to the movement, as it cannot be otherwise, because to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance the childhood we occupy and worry about. And it's very good that they make a motion asking for better policies for childhood, but I remind them that you allow the approval of assumptions that serve little to these policies of childhood, to complain about the lack of reversal. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.71.0	Many thanks, then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.72.0	Well, thank you. Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Deputies, very good morning. Well, we, from our parliamentary group, see with great concern the place occupied by the poor child in Catalonia. And it's that poor childhood data are very alarming, it's very worrying, but it's that they were already alarming before the pandemic. And it's that we're carrying many years of child poverty, which is very high, very high above the European average. But, of course, what to expect, in this sense, isn't it? , when we have a social system of child protection that is non-existent in Catalonia. And it is that attention and protection to childhood is not a priority of the Government of the Generality. But he's not one of his business partners either. Because we can ask with a lot of cynicism that the child's burden is increased, but it is good that they then voted in favour of assumptions that do not take into account the fact that they have adequate protection for the child. I, in change, yes it's tea in mind... [[Some applause.]] And, in change, in this sense, it does take into account and indeed is foreseen, in these assumptions that we may have approved, an increase in expenditure in a series, therefore, of ideological disarrays that are intolerable. And in this sense, we would ask you for a little more coherence, because without more political reversal and will, eighty percent of infants will remain poor when they grow up and, in this case, leave the poor as an inheritance to their children. And it is that the high number of underprivileged children also has much to do with the fierce attacks that the family has suffered during these last years by the Generality, and also because of the lack of investment in social policies. And it is that, besides, Catalonia we find that it is one of the autonomous communities of Spain where it is more because it can raise a child and, therefore, form a family. And the government, in this sense, has a moral obligation to protect the family and, therefore, the infants. And it is urgent that you facilitate access to the "living room, to a stable job with decent wages, that you promote reconciliation, so important for the families of Catalonia, that you reduce taxes and that you promote and protect birth. Finally, therefore, I would like to see the measures taken and applied by our Group of the Party of European Socialists in relation to the various plenary sessions and the various committees in this Parliament. And we also ask them to help families and not penalize them, as we see they are bringing themselves to the end of the Catalonian Parliament. And, in concrete terms, we consider, because we also see in the motion that we talk a lot about single parents, but we believe that in concrete terms, more than that, we should also be concerned about the families of the Nombroses, who are the most affected. Because it must be borne in mind that families with three or more children are three times more likely to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And in this sense there was also one of the points that we have put forward since our parliamentary group. In his motion, there are various things between them, and because of the lack of time we can't come to realize one by one, but I do want to make a special point in a repetition of the policy of rendering, for example, the guaranteed income of citizens. And it is that, in this sense, from our Parliamentary VOX Group, we believe that we need and are aware, in this sense, that we must help the most disadvantaged people, always, logically, taking into account the national priority; but in this sense, we are not in favour of creating a permanent dependence on the Administration, converting this into a style of life, because what is caused by this is a chronification of the poor. And, finally, we do not understand that from In Comú We can, therefore, have approved assumptions that, for example, are spent almost 40_million euros in political propaganda towards the media like the Government of the Generality, or it is destined 28.5_million euros to expand for the world its separatist deliris, while we have one of the highest child poverty taxes in Europe. And, in this sense, we do want to preach to the Government of the Generality to take urgent measures to care for the more than 462,000 children who are living with the least resources needed to live with dignity and to guarantee the future of these children and, ultimately, the future of all children in Catalonia and their families. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.73.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we'll also give support to the vast majority of points of this young man. We thank the group proposing that it have accepted one of our discussions, negotiated, in which we expressed concern about the proper functioning of special education schools. We were proud to have been able to deal this to three bands with you and the CUP. It seems that Stalinists and liberals can agree when there is a certain social sensitivity. Well, we have some mornings, the support for the youth will not be total, but we would certainly like to highlight the good intention and the good level of this youth. I mean, in fact, in this room there are groups that when they want to know, to make opposition. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, there are people who when they fly... they don't always fly, but, gee, when they fly, yeah. So, you see, it seems to us that she is a very well-meaning young man, who puts the emphasis on real problems, who, in fact, had already touched them a little in the previous young man. I would like to comment on a few small objections. At point 3, precisely what has been discussed about the modification of the law of guaranteed income of citizens... It is not that we are against this figure, but it seems to us that in the end, the contribution of the UPC converts a little the theme into a bunyol of difficult digestion. This is to set aside a "single box with the IMV managed from the SOC fruit of the correspondent's cross-competences... Well, I don't know if you're already seeing the government, but for the time being it governs who rules and is not characteristic either for transparency or for good management. Therefore, all these things, let's say, that they don't understand very well provoke in us a reasonable, we believe, skepticism. We've also had a bit of a migration coming to point 8, which seems to us to cover the impotence with ideology. I mean, you guys are making a big fuss here. Actually, they seem to circle over the problem. I mean, as I suggested before – and I'm sure you share it – the problem is that we have a rotten, ineffective, obsolete and essentially corrupt social health system. Or, as you often say here, with gavardine and bigots, they say to reverse the excessive marketing and outsourcing of social services, especially the child protection system, we would like to speak more clearly, to say that there are already many border bids and that there are people who do business with these things. I mean, there should be a clean house here, and there should be a lot more transparency in the way in which child support is managed, and that no euro should be escaped from the box that doesn't have to go. Besides, I'm telling you, most points seem pretty good to us, we'll vote for them. Home, you can already imagine that this point of access to the right languages... I don't doubt that you say it with all color and with all good faith, that "gives the high value that the Catalan language has for social cohesion, ensuring access for everyone, especially for children at risk of exclusion, so as not to add a condition more to their vulnerability. But, of course, I know it's hard for us to agree on that. But, of course, this is because we cannot accept Catalan monolingualism or social exclusion. We think precisely that the best way not to make children more vulnerable or any other collection is to guarantee bilingualism. But, finally, from this to our news already, because, as you know, we have presented a wonderful proposition of law, which, go, so good shot forward, will bring the teranyinas to forty years of linguistic oppression. That said, the motion seems to us, well, so there, well-intentioned, healthy and we will vote for most points in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.75.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Anna Feliu.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.76.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... The motion presented by your group, MP, on the rights and opportunities of childhood is an extensive motion that makes considerations in various spheres, but since it cannot otherwise be, it is claimed that children's rights follow the epithet of government policies. And we agree that infants and adolescents must have special protection, and even more so those who suffer from various factors that make them vulnerable. And the government is there and it has to be. In later times, the number of infants in poor conditions has increased. And that's why the public spending in childhood has also done it and will keep the trend up. And not only from the Department of Social Rights, because policies to help the poor child must be cross-cutting, from all government departments. For this reason, also from the Government, together with UNICEF, was incorporated a new indicator to define a methodology of calculation that quantifies the assumptions destined for childhood in a cross-sectional way, from all areas of the Government. And, as I said, this indicator says that expenditure has increased and is at 26,3_per_cent, which is 6,500_euros per child, a 17,5_per_cent higher than in the previous assumption. I would also like to recall that the Generalitat is tutoring 7,800 children, 4,196 in residential centres, 2,318 in extended families and 951 in alien families. I suppose you must also agree that the poor child is not disconnected in the case of the poor of her families. And that is why there are also other support measures to help families with children to develop their day-to-day lives in a dignified way, such as guaranteed citizenship income, housing benefits, vital minimum income, which can also be complemented by guaranteed income, etc. You say that there would be a diagnosis of the degree of access of families with children in a situation of poverty to guaranteed income, and, in fact, in that it is working since the General Directorate of Social Benefits, because it is wanted to know precisely what is the degree of access of these families. In fact, in the interim report of May 2021 of Ivàlua it is stated that the guaranteed income has a vertical efficiency that allows the llars to overcome the coat of poor, and also, as it cannot otherwise be, some questions to improve, as it now detects which are the barriers of access so as to propose solutions. To do this, to detect who these barriers are, it has to be studied, and this obviously takes time to do it. As for the update of Catalonia's sufficiency index, it is certain that it has been frozen for some time, but it is still higher than the state index of the IPREM. For what you do to the policies of gathering and including young migrants alone, and as I assume you already know, there are various programs and actions that are due to the end when they are smaller and also when the majority of the age has already reached, especially in the matter of support for emancipation, such as the 360th project, addressed to young majors in a vulnerable and non-referential situation, whichever is their administrative situation. Other resources that are also driving and increasing their investment: for example, CDIAPs, to assist children with difficulties with developmental difficulties, which this year will generate an investment of €66_million in order to offer many more hours and also eliminate the waiting list. Or, for example, the deployment of the Barnahus to care for child victims of sexual rape. Or also the new game of 38_millions dedicated to the socio-vulnerable alumni to guarantee the 100_per_cent of the free education: school material, textbooks, sorties, complementary activities, colonies, feeding alleys, etc. And it could continue with more help, more projects, more programmes, because, as I said, the poor child must fight cross-cutting, also fighting the poor of families with housing, work, and health policies. Because, of the welfare of our children and children today, depending on the welfare and future of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.77.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Najat Driuech has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.78.0	Well, good morning again. Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, first of all I would like to make it clear that caring for the poor child will not cease to be a priority on the political agenda until we can eradicate it. And in this case we have discussed various points and have not accepted others where we actually fully share the objectives. According to Save the Children data, the cost of child and child support is approximately €630 per month. This figure varies and we observe that the cost of the child increases with age, and it is important that we reflect on, in reality, what is the difficulty with which families find themselves, and, in concrete terms, all those single-marital families. We also know that there are barriers at the time of access to the guaranteed income of citizenship and to the vital minimum income, as you comment on the first points. But the question that remains to be asked is: what is going on with the Government of the Generality to strengthen the resources we have and to face this poor child? Well, we have at the abst of the citizenry the guaranteed income of citizenship, which was born with the objective of covering, by means of a monthly benefit, the basic needs that a person may present. Still, we know that this performance has shortcomings and that we work to improve it, putting the emphasis on postponents complements for those who have children and girls in charge. For this reason, we currently have a government commission on guaranteed citizenship income where, during the last quarter of 2022, they will present the results of this study. For another band, for the first time in the history of Catalonia and under a republican governance, a universal basic income pilot plan is unfolding. Only eighty countries in the world have carried out this pilot test, and we are pleased that Catalonia represented one of these eighty pioneer countries in the field of yield guarantee. This universal income is an economic contribution that represents a new alternative and that covers all citizens individually and periodically by the State. An unconditional transfer that could represent an alternative to other aids, as is the case with vital minimum input. This board will count on a quantitative and qualitative character assessment, with the participation of an entity as important as Iválua. And in this young man speak also of the import of the inclusive school deployment and the import of access to reading, access to the fooder, and access to CDIAPs. And for this reason, as we share the objectives, as we said at first, we accept these different points. And in this line, too, I would like to comment that the previous legislature passed Decree 11/2021, the programming of the educational offer and the admission procedure in the centres of the Education Service of Catalonia. And that this decree, for the first time, gives a new definition of the student with educational needs arising from unfavorable socio-economic or socio-cultural situations, also giving concrete help to ensure equal opportunities for access to the student socio-economically vulnerable to complementary activities and also to school services, bringing and facilitating the resources of children and adolescents who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability. And, as Counsellor Bargalló said, "the ideal school is one in which different students can learn together. Another point of strength that presents this young man is that he refers to housing. We know and know the problem of housing, but I think that here among all of us we wanted to legislate and we approved the anti-denomination law, as well as other measures such as the framework of the action of the approach to sensellarism, which was approved on March 29. They are part of the points with which many must agree – we will vote in favour –; in others, obviously, we will abstain. And finally, I would also like to thank Congresswoman Jessica Gonzalez for her willingness to deal and reach some agreements. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.79.0	I, finally, in the defense round of the papers presented, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.80.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. I am beginning this intervention today by showing all the support to Brian, who today faces a new trial of those who have this obsession of the Spanish State in evidence to pursue the right to protest and violate it, and who is a good example of this repression that afflicts young people and that we spoke about during the interventions to the monogram ple on youth. It is also a good example of how solidarity and persistence in struggle is a good popular tool to combat this right-wing violation. And of rights speak precisely this young man, a young man who has already advanced that we will vote mostly in favour, with some abstentions. But also, and I know it's hard to say, it won't do much good, because what comes to fight the poor child are drastic, structural measures, and the measures that we're going to approve here today are small pieces; small pieces that, above all, to be able to approve them, end down and don't commit to gay. To thank the group proposing the proposal and willingness to transaction and acceptance of some items. Sense of doubt, if all we approve of here today is put on a thread per turn, immediately, it will be a substantial better for many lives, to make them truly liveable. But, at the same time, tell them that I know they know that without much more structural measures we will not get out of it. We defend universal basic income – you know – but we also know that we are in this meantime, and therefore welcome are the best. And thank you, honourable Member, for accepting the expression of the "single box with the minimum vital input managed from the SOC, the result of the correspondent's handover of competitions. What seemed alarming to us was that the thought we had presented to put into practice in the economic compromise, and that it gave – and read it textually – "to make the application of the additional provision go beyond the 2021 law of assumptions to increase the index of sufficiency by a five-per-cent, it was not possible to accept it because the government did not accept it and then it would not approve. Do you understand why I say that approving the motion for a resolution will not be of any use or will be of little use? What real compromise does this government have to complete these agreements, Counselor? Because we are talking about something very difficult, very serious: the poor child, who traverses the life of one_of_each_three creatures in the country– one_of_each_three–, a clear indicator of the level of failure of our economic and social system. It is the failure of a system that leaves on the margin and physically and psychologically mistreats thousands and thousands of creatures who suffer a child of deprivation and suffering; a child to which it is transmitted that there is no hope or opportunity for them, but is rebellious. But, at the same time, from the spaces of power and social order, they are showing themselves as who is rebellious to get the rights that surround them as a consequence repression, which can still spat out their lives. By chance, also from other areas of civic organization, they also have the essential message that they either organize and fight or will never get out of this oppression. I don't know if you can make an idea of what exercise of cynicism can represent, today, working in a classroom or an educational center, in a center of lleure, in a cau, the Declaration of the Rights of the Child if you don't soak up this rebellious position. It explains very well the feminist Bell Hooks with his teaching to transgress. And she is also another feminist referent, and in this case the Catalonia International Prize, which explains very well that there is only one priority challenge in politics: to put it to the service of making all the lives liveable, and many of you were able to listen to it – I speak of Judith Butler, naturally. And, as long as we've awarded her, I'd be happy to give her credit. I'm done, President. We independent people and organizations have a lot of motivation to stop being under the rule of the Spanish State. And we know that it is the state that, among many other oppressions, has the shame to be one of the three that have the lowest rate of child poverty in all of Europe, a rate that does not improve – we are only around Romania and Bulgaria. Independence has an opportunity in the struggle against the poor child to demonstrate how the struggle for national rights and social rights is the same fight. Let us stand out from this state in the index of poverty and show how the Catalan Republic brings benefits to all the people who live in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.81.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Jessica González once again takes the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.82.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, we appreciate the reviews a little more. As I said to the principle of my intervention, a lot of consensus, a lot of points in common, but little girl, really, to implement concrete measures, right? We have tools, we have specific tools to fight the poor child and we are not doing it. On specific things the parliamentary groups have commented on, we do not understand how VOX proposes to reduce taxes, as it does at the time that we have to protect childhood... Or, if you don't want taxes, if you don't want to. Or, if the public servants, who in the end are the assets of the working classes, then they want that somehow this is financial we don't know how. Citizens: Well, monolingualism is not a word that comes from anywhere in our youth. In any case, let's talk about linguistic rights, let's talk about the importance of having access, young people and children migrated to the Catalan language. But that's another topic. To the governing groups. We agree; but this does not need to be agreed, only, and to approve together, this is because we already have concrete elements. The guaranteed income of citizenship, for when? So, we've already weakened her, we've got reports that already tell us, okay, let's wait for the government committee to do its job, but we've already got reports from Iválua that we're told what strategy we're supposed to follow. And here, either we make a return policy now, or we'll be a few years from now talking to the same young people, like we did yesterday, because they won't be able to emancipate and have some harsh poor conditions, even more extreme than we have today. We end up giving thanks to all the organizations that work for the right to childhood, to all the workers, who expect this young man to advance in his rights. And, above all, let us hope that everything we approve here today is truly fulfilled and that childhood is really a priority for Catalonia. So thank you very much. And that's it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.83.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the vocational training system of course 2022-2023]] [[302-00138/13]] The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to have a substantial time on the next item on the agenda, the next question to the government about the vocational training system of course 2022-2023, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. And she has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Rocío García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.84.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. I see that the counselor has not come... MPs, MPs, today we present this motion on the vocational training system for course 22-23, because there are only four_months missing to start the new course and we have not yet seen a compromise decided and viable to move it forward urgently. Catalonia cannot wait any longer for indefiniteness and lack of project, and a real reinforcement to FP. People looking for a future professional or continuing to advance in their formatary itinerary need the education council to anticipate, plan and invertexi. Because today, with what has already been announced and published, we have not found a clear defense of the public FP system in Catalonia. This is our concern and also an important part of Catalan society, which is very young. We have not seen any clear proposals or solutions to the conflicts that occurred at the 21-22 course, nor planning, nor prospecting for training needs, the labour market or the world of employment, nor have any centres yet been built that are needed. Neither has there been any expansion of the cycle offer that he would touch. Well, the public investment in Catalonia is not yet what the country needs, in keeping with the territorial balance, nor have the measures that had to be taken to reduce students' inequalities and guarantee everyone's rights, nor have taxes been eliminated, nor is there a line of help for the students who need it, nor have the supply maps and training needs yet been published. Neither have we seen a clear project of the dual FP in Catalonia. We also consider that it is necessary to encourage access by women and young people to the formative cycles of industry 4.0 and also from professional families to STEAMs, in order to reduce the important gap in access to cycles and one of the possible causes of the wage gap in the labour market for women. We also believe that we must now bet on inclusive education in post-compulsory education. We want an education for everyone and free, and a quality FP. After the great fraction of the past course, still in force, in which twenty-one thousand people were left, the counselor still tells us that she offers seven thousand places for the pre-registration of the last month of March. Our group finds them insufficient and could leave out nine hundred people to be able to ride medium-grade cycles already desired. Nor have lines of help to peppers been defined, either, to join the dual FP and thus improve formation. Our group is again claiming resources. The details and increments of the assumptions of 22 have not yet been reversed to cover the real needs of the country's FP centres. Thirty-one thousand FP seats are missing in Catalonia. This is the reality, even though the government doesn't want to see it. And as Congresswoman Esther Niubó explained to our question, to which I am sorry today, our group has stated that it can go back to what has already happened in July, if we do not put it in place and take measures. And here's our young man. We present it and we have also worked, above all, with the deputy of the Republican Left, with the group that gives support to the Government. And we think that this motion that we finally present today advances and improves also with the incorporations that we have made of the group of commons. Well, 15 days ago... and we already gave it very clearly in this inquiry: lack of planning, lack of investment in equipment, technology and machinery, lack of proper guidance, lack of integrated FP centres, a clear plan to defend and develop them, and lack of much resources. We think that addresses and clauses are the true heroes of the FP in Catalonia. And I'd like to make a point in these directions that for two years of detail and without any increase in these two years have supported the FP in Catalonia. The local world, the social workers. Youth is of the twenty-i-set_per_cent, and early abandonment, of the highest in Europe; our FP, our professional formation, needs a clear compromise, and it is today that we present in this motion. Thank you very much. And then, in the second part, I'll continue with the exams. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.85.0	So you have the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy lady Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.86.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, I'll start with the young man, okay? It's a small-scale movement, which takes back the main demands of the MUCE and, therefore, with which we would agree in its totality. It is an unnecessary motion, but unnecessary because most points are already collected in the current legislation, and therefore are petitions to the government that should already be completed. I give some examples. The first point of the motion says: "To publish the map of the offer and of the need for territorial and sectoral training and vocational training, is to say, to publish the public offer of places to the FP. But there's a decree that's already from 2007, isn't there? the 75/2007, of March 27, for which the procedure for admission of the student to public funded centres is established, and already recognizes that it is the competence of the Government to publish these places before the beginning of the school year. All right, I'll move on to the next part. With what we have already said that we agree... we are surprised that you have to go out and defend a weapon when this weapon has not been accepted. I myself yesterday – as much as I can't address Mr. Counselor today, so that he won't accompany us – believed and, in fact, claimed that today I would come here to defend another time his reprobation. And he said to defend his reprobation because until yesterday at six o'clock there was on the table a statement with this young man, the deputy of the Socialist Group, saying: "Reproving the education counselor for his inability to resolve the conflict that exists today with the educational community. A joint theme of the UPC and the commons with which the socialist group agreed, and which, in fact, defended, could say even more and more flagged, even though all just after the Left Congress voted against the decree of 12 April for which urgent economic and fiscal measures were adopted as a result of the war in Ukraine. That in this chamber we have a government socio-vergent republic is it possible to say already? Can we already affirm and recognize that the pacts and movements to the Congress of Left, PSOE and We can affect and, in fact, determine the agreements that are taken in this chamber? Can you tell? Okay. This withdrawal from the puzzle last minute how much did it cost? Has he been changing from what? Change of the language pact? Now that it seems that one of the agents of the four-way pact is out of hand, it is clear that socialists and Republicans are going to defend it more than ever, but..., and now he was going to say "Mr Cambray," he is not there; he feels tough and inflexible with the teachers and conciliator and pacifist, pacifist, with those who want to liquidate the Catalan language. We demand that you react and replace it, we replace the party you represent, Esquerra Republicana, and also In Comú Podem, that you abandon your law proposal, that adapts the language legislation to the feeling of twenty-i-five_per_cent and that, moreover, does not prevent the execution of the sentence, but gives it political coverage. We ask them not to convert into law this sentence, that they only pursue the end of the model of Catalan school, which, working better or worse, seeks that all the students have access to the language, seeks social cohesion. And, deputies and deputies of Junts, it seems that they are now disobedient from this proposal that carries the immersion, but the most important is: and now what will we do? We have made a proposal that shields the català at school and the equality between centers, without leaving the charge on the direct teams. We ask them, Esquerra, Juntes, commons, that they join and that, in this way, we protect the centers and directions of the Sentence, and that is a first step to open a dialog with the educational community and the Catalan society; dileg that we should have opened months ago, from the first moment, instead of negotiating at the door closed between parties and from the back door to the country and to the educational community, to the unions, and to the different entities that fight for the language. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.87.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.88.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, today's Socialist Group motion is a motion that we share that is very necessary and important, because it is clear that the professional formation, the FP of this country needs a great boost from the government, after years of abandonment and the collapse that have been experienced, precisely in this course, where thousands of people have stayed out without a place and, many, the only solution, the only place that the department has offered them has been through the telematic formation, which also knows how poorly it has worked. And, therefore, it is obvious that it is not the solution that professional training needs in our country. It is obvious that we have many challenges, such as removing taxes, such as increasing travel aids or improving professional accreditation, which, as I said, we share, and therefore we will support all points of the young man. Since our group, we have presented different ideas to improve the text, which have been accepted, and here too, we appreciate the predisposition of Mrs Garcia to make it possible. The first block of papers we have presented refers to transparency, because we consider that the publication of the offer map and the needs of the FP at the level of all Catalonia cannot be postponed. It is basic that it is done because it has to be an instrument, its annual publication and presentation in this Parliament, to have a diagnosis, to know where we are and where we want to go. Secondly, the items we have submitted refer to increasing and guaranteeing the offer of FP basically in three aspects. The first is that it is public, and therefore that there is a sufficient offer at public level. Secondly, I went to everyone, and therefore not only those who come from a quarter of the ESO, but also from batxillerat, adult schools or different cycles. And, also, the third element in this block of issues refers to territorial equity, and that, therefore, there is a presence in all the regions, in all the times, in all the territorial services of our country. And finally, the third block of papers that we have also presented refers to the rights of learners at the time of practice, and that is why we want to include the subject of the contract of employment in the dual PS. Therefore, these are all the items that we have brought from our group. But now, it is clear that the breakdown of FP and planning in our country is one of many examples that show that things are not being done right in this department. And, therefore, here too from our group we have incorporated this task, together with the CUP, so that we can today fail the Councillor, Mr Cambray, who is acting, in a repeated way, from the point of view of the educational community. And we have seen it during these last few days, during these last weeks, with a vague unity without precedents in the last few years, with multitudes of manifestations in all the cities of the country, and we will also see it this weekend with a new mobilization that brings together the vast majority of the educational community, which shows that there is an obvious discomfort and that, therefore, this Parliament also has the obligation to represent the vast majority of the educational community in our country that is telling us that we need to be cut short, that we are from the few autonomous communities that are keeping them – if we want to compare ourselves with the rest of the State – that we are the ones who are investing under the state media and in Europe's education. And, therefore, the reality is very rough and, apart from these pairs – I also wanted to address Mr. Cambray – the educational community is full of it, it is a change of course, it is asking for real dialogue, and this, above all, means making acceptable proposals. So we're sorry, aren't we? , that this young man is converted, once more, into a lost opportunity. And neither do we understand the role of the Socialist Party as the first opposition group, which for many weeks was telling Mr. Cambray that he had to change his attitude, and at these times when relations have finally ended with the council and with the educational community, you did not want to accept this issue today. Therefore, we insist: beyond the youth itself as regards vocational training, we must regret it today, right? , that this young man cannot represent a majority malaise in the educational community of our country, that what is being demanded is a real dialect, is demanding more reversal, and, ultimately, is struggling for public and quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.89.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Manuel Jesús Acosta, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In Greece of Hellenism, that is, the period of time between the death of Alexander the Great, the year 323 before Christ, and the failure or defeat in the battle of Acccio, the year 31 before Christ, of Cleopatra and Mark Anthony, inflicted by Octavio, only knew how to read and write the privileged and the artisans. Moreover, technical training was subject to a particular teaching, and essentially represented a learning of a trade by a select or reduced group of apprentices who would then become artisans. However, the artisans, although they had a high level of education and literacy, were very poorly seen at that time, because their work was considered, being manual and non-scientific, of inferior category than intellectual work. Well, this preamble seeks, on the one hand, to capture the attention of all those present after this ill-fated moment, after four hours already long, and, on the other hand, the most important, logically, seeks to enhance vocational training. A vocational training which unfortunately – unfortunately – does not currently have the political and social recognition it deserves in Catalonia. It is necessary to encourage the vocation of our young people to vocational training, because it enables them to exercise any kind of profession and profession in a qualitative way. That is why we are going to vote in favour of those proposals from the PSC which are aimed at improving vocational training without any kind of clipping on our part. We are therefore in favour, as you say, of drawing up a map of training needs to offer vocational training places according to demand and market needs. On the other hand, it is also necessary to increase vocational training places for students who come from ESO's room, from high school, from other training cycles... And we must also guarantee – in that we fully agree also – higher education places for students who come from middle-level training cycles. It should also be stressed that it is necessary to invest in technological resources, laboratories and mobility grants; although the latter has already withdrawn it after some transaction. We also believe it is appropriate to invest in the construction of vocational training centres, but – let's not forget – we need to rationalize investment spending because resources are not unlimited. This is why we have tabled an amendment to take advantage of the existing facilities of private or concerted vocational training centres. As we have been rejected and negotiated with Junts and Esquerra a sweetening of point 4, we will vote against this point. On the other hand, the accreditation system cannot be implemented in an indiscriminate manner as intended by the PSC. It is necessary to require accreditation from the undertaking in which a person has carried out his professional practice, to study it thoroughly and then to carry out its approval, if appropriate, worth redundancy. It is necessary to encourage vocation for vocational training; correct, as you say. But, look, that's not the same as forcing vocations – because then they would no longer be vocations – through gender quotas or impositions of any kind. Vocations must be promoted freely, on an equal footing; that is so. Look, gender differences in personality and decision-making are more frequent and accentuated in those countries with higher levels of equality, such as the Nordic countries, according to the scientific study The gender-equality paradox in the STEM, by Drs. Stoet and Geary. Vocational training must be freed from ideologies and focused on professionalism. And finally, I end up with two issues that I have missed. First, why have they not denounced the damage that LOMLOE has already caused in post-compulsory education as a result of the indiscriminate approval of many pupils in primary and secondary schools? Teachers are already having problems; they have to lower the level very much, because they arrive students with serious problems of reading, very serious mathematical deficiencies and with little work culture. And finally, I also miss not asking for Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray's reprobation and resignation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.91.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Quim Calatayud, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.92.0	President, thank you very much. In fact, those of us who come from the municipal world to our plenary, when they are present to the young man, must normally be a little rarity, but we devote ourselves to debating and talking about the young man. And normally it works very well, because I think it's a very enriching debate on that subject. And, in fact, when there are other fears about the table, so it is debated in other parts or in other areas. But in any case, we are here to give coverage to this young man and we are, I suppose, all of us, agreed that vocational and vocational training has gained prestige in recent years, because it is an eminently practical and employment-oriented training option, which makes it very attractive to a broad sector of the population, from young people at risk of early abandonment of their training stage – and I say this in a positive way – to adult people who reorient their professional life through professional training, without forgetting young people from batxillerat, who see professional training more attractive than university education. Here it is not a question of donating an academic output to any young person. Here it is that young people trinate between productive solutions for them, for their businesses and for the country. If we put them in the abst, better for them and for them. If we already put them on the agenda a social and political education pact, better for them and for them. With regard to the motion submitted on the system of vocational training, we agree with the need to publish the map of offer and of territorial training needs. Moreover, we understand that, based on the integration of vocational training, this report does not have to respond only to the vocational training of the education system, but also – and this is very important – to that of the employment system, in order to extend it to other areas of this planning. With regard to the need to increase the public offer of vocational training, I would like to point out that Catalonia's education law has taken a step further in universalising the teaching of medium-grade forms and against school dropouts. The Department of Education has a board of educational infrastructures that has an axis of constructions to respond to the need for schooling, and therefore the objectives of the motion go in the same line and, moreover, that the study for the reduction of rates will give answer to these facts. We understand that at present there are invisible or unknown professions – among them, those that are more industrial – and that it is necessary to act, address them and give them visibility. To significantly increase the dual FP to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, training is being conducted for business guardians. It is necessary to accompany the enterprises and to age to guarantee the formatting process of the student under appropriate training and working conditions. Finally, the impact of the energy price on the FP centres that make industrial machinery work is a question that, obviously, we all agree that it is necessary to ensure that the FP centres do not watch their activity. The Junts Parliamentary Group will not vote in favour of all the points of the motion, which have certainly worked with interest and dedication and which we understand are in the line of taking appropriate advantage of the resources and measures that are already in operation, and of deploying those that contribute to improving vocational training so that it is much more modular and flexible, with the empowerment of dual training and with the incorporation, even more, of international mobility, rather than improving its connection with university, that already, in other European countries, the higher degrees of vocational training have an equalization with certain degrees of university. In this model of transformation and projection of vocational training it is very important to take into account the professional training and accreditation of professional skills in order to improve the level of format of good part of the training of these people, with the multitude of offices based on knowledge, expertise and career path of many people, which we agree very much that they can benefit from the education system and, at the same time, transmit these knowledge. Therefore, in everything that goes forward and walks in this direction we will find ourselves, since I am convinced that in this matter and in all that we share in the educational world, globally, we share the same objective. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.93.0	And finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.94.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the order of the day has been advanced half an hour and, therefore, you had noted that the motion was at one and a half o'clock. He arrived here at one and eight; therefore, before the young lady began, according to the forecast. Unfortunately, we have advanced and, therefore, we also understand that you have had other questions, because you don't have to be in a place waiting for us to start. Therefore, thanks for trying and arriving at the time it was assigned. [[Greetings.]] MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers in Parliament, don't freak out – don't freak out – we'll talk about the FP – we'll talk about the FP – because that's why we're here today at the Faristol. Of others, if they want to talk about other questions, then they have other spaces to do it. They can also ask for a press wheel and be able to mark positions on other aspects that have nothing to do with FP, but that, logically, they are also relevant and important to our country. About vocational training. First of all, thank Congresswoman Rocio Garcia, of the Socialist Group, for the predisposition she had at the time to work the papers. Twelve items that we have submitted to the Republican Left Group with the Joint Parliamentary Group, of which we have not been able to trade six and of which two have not been accepted. Therefore, a good effort of work and politics. And from another band, too, ask or wish that Congresswoman Esther Niubó is recovered quickly and another time may be again here debating, with this firmness that she always shows in her debates, about the educational policy of our country. Vocational training is structural, it is one of the essential pillars of development. And proof of that is the increase in the thirty-four percent of the places that you've had for this year, for the guava training offer. Just like the increment of 276 we groups for the training offer in enguany cycles, which implies a hundred_ thirty-set_per_cent more than it was offered in the past course. And on the other hand, also, the increase in investment, 722.6 million euros, which they show, once more, that it is a priority, both for the Department of Education and for the Department of Enterprise and Work and, logically, for the Professional Training and Qualification Agency, is a priority the FP in our country. Because, essentially, vocational training is the one that will give us the tools to face not only the future, but the immediate present. Because vocational training is the truncated element to allow, also, to lower the index of the day and, therefore, to encourage occupation. Because vocational training is a concern for everyone. And that's why in some of our papers we also referred to long-term training. Finally, we have negotiated, I also understand the concept of continuous training and concreteness in the field of work. But for us, vocational training is not a question of age, vocational training is a question of personal routes, of form routes and, therefore, also of social influence. With regard to the investments that need to be made throughout the system, we have been progressively increasing in the different assumptions and we hope that in the following ones these parties will continue to increase for the FP. It is obvious that there is a lot of work to do, and that we come a long way to update the training centres, so that the materials of which the students of our country enjoy are suitable for the training needs and to which they will find themselves in the work centre when their training has ended. And, therefore, here we need to intensify all the material update. I, therefore, subsequently increase these investments. On the other hand, we are also concerned, logically, with the increase in energy costs. Decisions must be taken to limit energy prices. In effect, they have to be taken and here we don't have the competence. But, at the same time, we must also be responsible for having the capacity to cope with the energy costs of our educational centres and, in concrete terms, vocational training centres, especially those which use more industrial and energy-intensive tools. But, on the other hand, also take steps to adapt space to low energy consumption. And also, on the other hand, adapt it with the big companies, so that they consider that the energy used for public centres and educational centres should not be computable in the general energy market. And, so, here too, we need to be clear and clear, huh? Also, big energy companies are much more committed to the education of this country. And, finally, respect one of the important debates – and I don't want to end my intervention like at least without reference – and that's the question of taxes and public charges. It's a debat that needs to face much more than this young man's point says. We have to face it with all the data and also answer a policy and a question: do we want fair policies or do we want equal policies? We defend equity, and therefore whoever has it pays. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.95.0	So after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.96.0	MPs, MPs, president. Don't worry, counselor, you've arrived in time to listen to me. [[relays]] Or so I find myself totally with this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, and Mr. Albert too. Yes, yes, so you will, say, have an option to compensate for the two interventions. I'll talk, at least at the beginning, about FP, and I think it's important that we do it, because for us – and we've defended it many times – it's part of this connection, of this ability to generate, to develop our product system, our product texture, and I'll explain why. One of the main features of the generation of wealth, of the generation, many times, of added value, of this value chain that we always talk about, of our ability to create industry, is precisely education, and many times this is oblivious. Since different points of view have been given and since a little bit of everything has been talked about, I wanted to give this view from the company, from our FP system. In fact, it's the company, precisely – and, in fact, the advisor knows it, because he worked with the company advisor on this issue – where the FP is most required to work, and the whole FP system ends up working. And, in fact, it's oriented, or it should be oriented in good part to this. For us, then, the one that passed by last September, which we as a party denounced, which is the lack of more than twenty-thousand seats for FP, so it was bad news. Here, this young man is asked, in fact, that this can be changed and that he can, in some way, adapt to the current reality of our society, to our educational system, and I think that if it doesn't happen again, if we don't have these news again, we will have done a good job. And this young man, who has already advanced that we will vote in favour at all points, I think that he is a young man, therefore, at least, even though there are a few points that they have..., there is a certain doubt, even from our point of view, say, more liberal, that we can vote in favour. But in the end we will vote for it because I think we need to make a direct commitment to the FP. So, in this case, we want to give this corporate view of the rich fabric of FP product. Also, there are two points that I like very much, or I want to comment. One is point 10, where we're talking about integrated FP. I've talked to some experts, haven't I? , or so, this will that there be centres with integrated FP, there is continuous FP, occupational FP, basic FP. For what we have listened to, this is like a letany that is spoken of in every legislature, it is said, but that they are promises of practically decades that have never been implemented, and we would like to, so..., we will vote in favour, but I think that another time we will have a resolution at this point, so that it will not be able to be completed or it will not be completed. More things. On what they were commenting, the 14th point, which I think is also important, is about an organization or administrative reorganization of the professional training and qualification system of Catalonia. Here I don't know very well what the PSC meant when it says it wants to plant and study a better of its organization. We believe that the best I could do is not directly depend on the Presidency. We don't understand why they rely on the Presidency and not on Education or Business. Yes, because many times it is said that there are different departments to be coordinated, but if we do this, Presidency, precisely, it should surely have, therefore, a giant department. I think there are other interests here. Mr. Mohedano is an expert at being in different places, and I think he's done a good job here and got his place at the Company; we've known him for a long time. And, finally, I said... I had made a promise, like serials, when it's said, so it was good that you were here to the education counselor. It went very well to me, to tell or remind him that there are twelve days left to complete the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent. We're going to remember him. If you want, we'll give you a watch or whatever you want. Thank you for coming, counselor. I also went to this question of doubt why the counselor did not fail because of his lack of dialogue with the educated world. But well, I want to remind him... I know he's been commented on here and different groups have commented on it, but I want to remind him of this: there are twelve days left. Maybe you don't have to stop being a counselor or that the cease, maybe you end up at the same place for another way. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.97.0	And finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.98.0	Thank you, President. Well, I didn't intend to address Councilman Cambray either, but seeing that the soap that my good friend Jordi Albert practiced on him was on such a level, so more than anything else because he didn't get out of here and go back to work with a distorted vision thinking he triumphed, I will have to remind him that you long ago lost the majority support of this chamber and of the educational community, and that, therefore, you already know what the People's Party of Catalonia thinks about this issue. In relation to the young man, he is a young man in whom we will support the vast majority of this man. We think that the best of professional training is fundamental, it forms part of the educational program of the Popular Party of Catalonia, and the vast majority of points adjust to it. Yes, that's true..., some objections: first, that the movement always focuses on the issue of resources, that they are phonemental, that they are vital, but it doesn't talk a lot about the model, about the model when it's about quality, when it's about the culture of effort. If we're not sure about the model, then resources are always insufficient by definition. And that's what they never talk about. There are also a few points..., even though it must be appreciated that the young person is quite neutral ideologically, and that is what makes it possible, therefore, to have a broad support, but it is also true that at the point that we abstain, that we cannot give support, it is those who, even if they do not say it in a very explicit way, convey a certain mistrust, first of all, towards public-private collaboration, or also directly mistrust in the world of the enterprise. Also when they talk about inclusive terminology but do not concrete; here it is important to concrete, because we already know them to you what "inclusive for you" means. And with the fact that they don't, it's a few points that we can't give support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.99.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, Mrs Rocio Garcia once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.100.0	Well, good morning, counselor. We started without his presence. At all events, we were also pleased to have the rest of the government accompany you, because the FP is not only the Education Department; perhaps here is one of the problems that the FP has had in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Give thanks to the groups that have wanted to make contributions and that we have been able to deal with with this will, because today the young people speak of professional training and proposals for course 22-23. And if they have been looked at – and I think so, because most of the groups that have spoken have said that they will vote for them – they have seen that with Deputy Albert we have come to terms with date: « in four months at the beginning of course 22-23. And I think that this has to congratulate us or it has... also, everyone and everyone makes us feel like we're useful. Because what we have to do in this chamber is just serve the citizenry, the one that does too many years..., and the deputy of the CUP wanted to say it. As she says, there's a decree, the one from 2007, that said you had to make a map. Yes, Congresswoman, 2007 has the 2015 Vocational Training and Qualification Act, and it hasn't happened yet. So now it seems that we are going to do this map and do a lot of other things if we vote for these ideas and, today, these points that we have presented: the publication of the map, as I said; boost investment in machinery; reduce and eliminate taxes; also help small businesses; set aside the prospect of training needs for a good planning of the offer to the country; intensify the system of accreditation of competitions; present this decree necessary to regulate the integrated FP centers, with a call in 2023, and review all the measures of access of women, young women, to the technical cycles. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.101.0	All right. So we're done with the debate, so I'm guessing we're still going to proceed to the vote on the motions that we filed this morning, which are points 15 to 20 of the order of the day. And as you also know, the texts of the motions we put to the vote incorporate the agreed drafts and drafts. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the criteria for establishing rights restrictions in a pandemic context (continuation)]] [[302-00136/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the criteria for establishing rights restrictions in a pandemic context. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was not approved, with 29 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved with 125 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 3, 4 and 5. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 17 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved with 80 votes in favour and 51 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into political espionage (continuation)]] [[302-00142/13]] Let us now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into political espionage. Let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour and 20 votes against. And finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 80 votes in favour and 51 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of residences for large people (continuation)]] [[302-00137/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of residences for large people. We start by voting points 2, 7 and 10. The vote begins. These points were approved with 68 votes in favour and 63 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 65 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 94 votes against and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 93 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting points 11, 12 and 13. The vote begins. These points were approved with 100 votes in favour and 31 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 131 votes in favour. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the financing of the third social sector (continuation)]] [[302-00139/13]] We now vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the financing of the third social sector. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 57 votes in favour and 74 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 120 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting now on the 3a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 7 abstentions. We vote for points 4 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved with 122 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 125 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 105 votes in favour, 6 against and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 51 votes in favour and 80 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 48 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 15 abstentions. We vote points 12 and 14. The vote begins. These points were approved with 68 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 120 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. And finally, we vote on point 17. The vote begins. Point 17 was not approved, with 59 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies relating to children's rights and opportunities (continuation)]] [[302-0140/13]] We are now voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into policies relating to children's rights and opportunities. We'll vote for the vote. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. [[Maria Dolors Sabater and Puig ask to speak. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Oh, sorry, I didn't see her. Say'm, Mrs. Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.102.0	President, we must vote on point 8 of the previous motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.103.0	No, no, The vote was taken jointly with point 4. In the voting guide I was referring to, but we voted together with point 4. All right, so let's go back to the vote on this right-to-rights motion. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 47 votes in favour, 78 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved with 108 votes in favour and 23 abstentions. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 54 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 128 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved with 39 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 81 abstentions. We're voting for the 8-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 110 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved with 128 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 11. The vote begins. This point was approved with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number 13. The vote begins. This point was approved with 128 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 14. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. This point was approved with 128 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number 16. The vote begins. This point was approved with 131 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the vocational training system of course 2022-2023 (continuation)]] [[302-00138/13]] And finally, we vote for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the vocational training system of course 2022-2023. We start by voting points 1 and 4. The vote begins. These points were approved with 120 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We vote for points 2 and 6. The vote begins. These points were approved with 68 votes in favour, 63 votes against. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was approved with 57 votes in favour and 74 abstentions. We vote points 5, 8 and 13. The vote begins. These points were approved with 130 votes in favour. We're voting points 7, 11 and 14. The vote begins. These points were approved with 120 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number nine. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point 12. The vote begins. This point was approved with 128 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. And we suspend the session until this late, at four o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.104.0	Very late, let's resume the session with the twenty-one point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rural agenda]] [[302-00141/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the rural agenda, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! What's the matter with you? And you have the word to expose it to Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.105.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Today with the motion on the rural agenda we want to explain all the support for all the work that has been carried out over the past few months on this rural agenda. A rural agenda that has taken place in an open, participatory, constructive and above all with this will to base it on a great consensus of the country, which also puts rural development policies, ruralizing all policies at the centre. Today it is time to recognize and thank not only the firm bet of the councillor, with the leadership of Councillor Jordan and all his team, but also this commitment of the good government with this vocation of consensus. And so, above all, above all today, it is important to recognize and appreciate the commitment and involvement of all the agents, organizations, institutions and experts who have participated in this process. There was the editorial board, let's remember, formed for the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Association of Micropopulations; also for the Ark, which is the regional rural development network, and which represents a seventy-three per cent of the territory of Catalonia, and also the Council Counsellor of Sustainable Development, to give this vision of convergence to all the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda. But not only; this drafting committee has also been added to the work of the motor committee, which is thirty-one organizations and cross-border associations of the territory, which have given this guarantee of rich, plural, territorial participation, involved, providing diversity, expertise and, above all, this need for a global and cross-cutting vision that must take the rural development of our territory and, above all, ensuring the representation of all the territorial diversity that we have in Catalonia. And this drafting committee, this motor committee, with the impulse of the department, has also made possible a whole process of participation in which there have been – let us also remember – more than two thousand..., no, forgive us, 1,247 people who have made their views felt, with a large representation of women, and also most of the proposals were made in fringes between thirty-six and fifty-five years old, as the Council reminded us the other day. And this also gives us that vision that we want the rural world to have, this feminist vision, this vision of the future, of the young generations who in the present but in the future want to develop their professional and life project. Let's go over these data. A first proposal was made with 897 shares, which after this job, right? , of which 301 have been prioritized. And from here, fifty-nine have also considered themselves strategic. It is therefore a lot of work done, a lot of different, a lot of shared, a lot of participation and a lot of lines of action. All these proposals we want are to improve the living conditions that people have in the Catalan rural world. And from the Republican Left – we said it the other day, we say it again, huh? – we want to promote transformations in all areas and senses to achieve a living, sustainable, dynamic, open and resilient rural environment, with this cross-cutting look at all policies, giving this necessary rural perspective to all those policies that take into account the day-to-day life of people living in the rural world and also give this capacity to adapt to the diversity of our territory. Therefore, we want to ruralize the policies, all, all and every one of those that affect everyday life. That is why we also need all this work, all these proposals to continue with a final part of governance that gives this credibility, which generates confidence that the decisions of the Government will be guided by these proposals, by this rural agenda. And that's why we propose today that we approve, with this young man, that the interdepartmental commission on rural governance, that was already created and that we created in the previous legislatures and that continues, isn't it? , and which is giving impetus to this rural agenda, has all the resources and all the tools necessary to ensure this interdepartmental action, an action of aligned government and compromise with this rural agenda that has transferred our own territory with its representative entities and organisations, that has annual plans of action, that reflects the different actions of the different departments with all resources and tools; also a follow-up and can gather the assessment of the impact of these measures and, if necessary, improve as well as the rural agenda, and, as we hope, also this ruralisation in the planning of the European foundations. And also, we insist, with this young man we want to culminate in this good governance to give this credibility and security to the agents of the rural world. And that's why you push it too, isn't it? , through the Government a regulatory_framework and a system of concertation in the making of decisions that guarantees the participation and representation of the citizenry of the rural world. Urgent, urgent more than ever. We are constantly being made aware of the pages and the people of the city halls and small municipalities. We need to ensure the sustainability of the country's norma_per_cent, biodiversity, food and energy sovereignty, socio-economic progress and, above all, the dignity of people living in the Catalan rural world. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.106.0	Thank you very much. Tea, then, the word, to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.107.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... we often conceive of the rural world from the point of view only of the right that we have those who live there to live worthily. And that's fine, but it has to go a lot further. It is the country itself and, therefore, also the great cities that need a rural world to prepare and fort. If in Catalonia, in large numbers, the norma_per_cent of the territory is occupied only by the deu_per_cent of the population, it is in this norma_per_cent where the country ensures its food, water, energy, the environment. Therefore, the Administration, for a general interest of the country, must seek and empower that people can continue to live or go to live to any right, to any people in Catalonia. And to know how to explain also that it is not for their sake, but for the sake, for the salvation, for the economy of the city council, and that the territory is right and proper of all; of the rural, but also of the urban. And, in fact, it is the rural country that will provide us with two state structures for our independence, such as food sovereignty and energy sovereignty. And today we are talking about the rural agenda, a brand project that was born in 2017 and that is now ready to be presented to the government. A government that must make its own content, that calendars the plan of actions and that the endowment of resources and that in networks accounts periodically. And those of us who have been able to follow this work know that it has been done with professionalism, with illusion, with great cross-sectional participation. And, therefore, from Junts to Catalunya, therefore, congratulate the technical team that made it possible, which is the Ark, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the CADS and the Micropopulations, right? But the boundary between what's rural and what's urban is often unclear. And, therefore, he will agree that we coordinate well with the rural agenda..., forgive me, with the urban agenda, in this case, that it is another great project that will soon see the light. And it's in this sense that we've traded a piece with Esquerra. And the initiatives that will certainly emerge from these documents and that affect different councils must, above all, add in three directions. The first is to generate quality jobs within the territory. This is our best social policy. If we ensure decent work for everyone who wants and can work, we are also ensuring the prosperity of the collectivities that depend on it: young people, the great people, the disadvantaged people. Because the rural world cannot be just pages and tourism; we must be able to redistribute all the product fabric of the highest value of the territory. And that, of course, goes to providing infrastructure, proper communications, each region. That's how we get people fixed to the territory. The second, environmental sustainability, which cannot be separated from economic sustainability. We need to conceive of ecology with human action that is in keeping with one another. And harmonising our activity with respect for nature is possible. Just take into account, as Wolfgang Sachs said, that the world will no longer be divided between the people of the right and left, but between those who accept the ecological limits and those who do not. And without ever losing sight that we're human animals. We, our salvation, both physical and mental, would greatly improve if we were able to reconnect with rurality, with nature. In fact, I think that we have, at least, said, technologically or excessively urbanized our minds. I'm third, governance. Any law or measure must be adapted not to the territory, but to the different realities of this territory. And the diumenge passed several deputies of this chamber we coincided to the Fira del Corder, to Tremp ; eight hundred people to the popular dinar in a municipality of still not six thousand inhabitants; actius, organized, self-promoting his culture, his gastronomy, his land. The truth is, he's laying down the hen's skin to see the country we have. And the people of the territory aren't lambs, they're not needed—so, poor—the Administration that makes them pastors because they can survive. What they need is for us to help them to live in dignity, living for sustainability, but above all respecting their governance. I'm done. The pandemic and the confinement have awakened, I would say, a certain yearning to return to the camp. We have the right conditions – and in this sense the rural agenda and also the urban agenda can do a lot – and we take this opportunity to start reversing this depopulation that we have been living and living in the rural world for many years. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.108.0	So after this turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.109.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... Well, today the Republican Left Group presents us with a motion that we could call it, in a benevolent way, a surprise. In this case, the Republican Group asks the Government to carry out a series of actions in accordance with the Catalonian rural agenda. And, obviously, it's funny that the group to which she belonged would advise, which is responsible for the thing, plant actions that need to be done. It seems a little strong, and we give them a lot of respect, of the respect they know we have, and with respect to the organizations that have done the whole job of... well, the situation on the rural agenda, right? Because, of course, we understand that the government had to have gone a step further, after all the diagnostic work, from all the civic participation that has taken place. And you bring us here a young man who talks – and I quote literally – about ‘deploying the rural agenda with the highest celerity', which is what the government was not planning to do with the highest celerity? – "ensure inter-departmental action and government action aligned and compromised with the rural agenda – what is it that the government to which you give recollection is not compromised with the rural agenda? And from here, plans, assessments, proposals, and they also talk about governance. I'm sorry, and the actual job, for when? The concrete actions that really help to reverse the territorial imbalance, for how long? Mirin, let's go to the community of autonomous communities in actions to act on those parts of the country that lose people. I think I'm almost all the communities. And I'll give you two examples or three. Valencian Community, which has a concrete premise, which, moreover, increases year to year, and which has money that allows it, for example, to promote a traveling program to lie down to the unpopulated coffers of the interior basic services that had disappeared. O Castilla - La Mancha, with a law establishing fiscal measures to encourage life in rural areas. Asturias, which also establishes tax exemptions. And here? So here's the warmest one in the water. Companion Sylvia Romero gave it to the question she made in this plenary, which she did to the councilwoman. It's important to talk, yes, but it's more important to act. And he pointed out concrete actions: tax reform, governance reform, concrete policies to maintain and increase public services to the territories. Therefore, many aspects to work and develop. And to the motion we're presenting in the very Ple, that's what you'll see. And, look, to you, then, if you're able to present this young man, that I think is a letter of good intentions, summon us to a meeting and send us a mail saying that they are already working, that it seems very good to us not to inform us, but without timing of actions, without concrete actions and without intended assumptions. Really? Do we really have to do this? Look, they're blowing the pot, aware of the delay they're carrying in territorial rebalancing policies, and it can't be. We will not contribute to this game, and I say it with the utmost respect, because we know that in other themes we have been able to work very well and whenever it is to add to the rural and agricultural areas we know that we will be on the side, but for makeup strategies we do not count. Mrs Serret told us that the motion was to demonstrate the government's commitment to the rural agenda. So, look, the commitments are evidenced with strategies, with concrete actions and with resources, not in auto-bomb motions, if I may, huh? To approve these concrete actions and debate them, we will make contributions to try to improve them and if we consider them positive we will vote for them and congratulate them on bringing them in. We cannot participate today in this show, which we believe does not contribute to the rural world or to the country's conjunct. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.110.0	Then, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.111.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament... today we are presented with a motion on the rural agenda by Esquerra Republicana. Your first proposal: to deploy the rural agenda as quickly as possible, which shows that both you and the previous governments of the Generalitat have never taken the rural world seriously, also known as 'the empty Catalonia or, rather, 'the forgotten Catalonia, to whom you have systematically promised and deceived for many years. If one thing is clear, you are all responsible for poverty, depopulation and the problems of the rural world. The initiatives presented aim to save the rural world on the basis of an agenda based on globalist and rupturist policies. I have already told you that these proposals, under the auspices of these ideologies, involve the disappearance of numerous livestock and agricultural holdings, the socio-economic destruction of the rural world and the acceleration of depopulation in Catalonia. We cannot deny the need to promote the rural world, but with an agenda based on ensuring prosperity with social aid, with a strategy for the demographic environment, with initiatives for the creation and growth of enterprises, with infrastructures in the road communication network, with a digital communication plan and with common policies of the European Union where we are not subject to the interests of third countries or to the ruin agenda. In short, an agenda that seeks real equality for all citizens, with the same rights and obligations, with access to all basic services, such as health, education, social services, industry, under the same conditions as people living in cities. The initiatives presented for the development of the rural agenda, under the umbrella of the 2030 agenda, are radically incompatible with the defence of the interests of the rural world. Look, I'll give you some advice. If you step a little more territory and talk to the people in the countryside, you will realize that you are very wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, if you continue with this position our rural world disappears. The rural world suffers the seven plagues of progressiveism: separatism, the globalist agenda, ecologists, animalists, chiringuitos, the ecological transition and egalitarian policies. Clearly, you guys like to waste your time. Look, on 22 June, almost a year ago, my parliamentary group has already put forward a proposal on the rural world and its depopulation, with many points that you have had in your motion. What a coincidence! But do you know what you all did? Vote against. Do you know what you have achieved? Lose a year. And do you know why they did it? Because, as I've told you many times, you only think of your fake pandereta republic. [[Some applause.]] From VOX we defend our farmers, farmers and our entire rural world, where they impose their... We do not participate in initiatives like this, where they impose their ecological hysteria, their agenda of ruin and where they waste the money of all Catalans. Initiatives that have nothing to do with the real needs of the agricultural sector or the rural world. That is why our vote will only be in favour of those initiatives that benefit our rural world and against all the others. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.112.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Laia Estrada has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.113.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... We agree practically with all the points of the motion they raise, but frankly we were also surprised to read it, basically because your party is presiding over the Government of the Generality, because, moreover, your party has been part of the Government of the Generality, and because, moreover, you have been in charge of the agricultural council. You yourself, Congresswoman Serret, were there. And, therefore, of course, these proposals which they present in their motion have taken a long time to be able to deploy them. And we could say they haven't put forward these proposals because they haven't been implementing any more. We won't say you haven't been made king. We won't say that. But you see a lot of money, don't you? That's what they did. From the rural world, you see a lot of what they've done. And, basically, we can see it in the country's conjunct with the terrible acute depopulation situation we have right now. Plus, we appreciate your young lady's points, but there's no timeline, which is where it's going to be, isn't there? A toast to the sun. A young man from a group that is ruling, that has brought the farming council and brings us proposals that have not been able to deploy in all these years. We take very seriously the whole problem of the territorial imbalance we are experiencing in the country. The eighty_percent of the population of Catalonia resides concentrated in urban areas, while the 2.5_percent of the population resides in villages of less than a thousand inhabitants, which occupy more than half the extent of the entire territory. And we are clear that this depopulation is a direct consequence of a neo-liberal and urban-centric economic policy, which has obliviously and systematically oblivious to rural areas, which lacks pagery, which harms the environment and leads to a diverse and, therefore, weak economic fabric, which only seeks to extend the life of outdated models of sun and plagiarism tourism or which bets on macro-projects such as, for example, the Olympic Games of Pirinaeus. The conclusion that we should not extrude is that what is urgently needed is a change of country model and that, beyond that, what we do is to maintain a continuous policy of what we have already seen that has failed. We agree with the young man. We will vote in favour of all the points of this motion, but please implement their own proposals, which can be done. When we approve of points of motion we have no guarantee that they will be implemented, we are not in government, but you are. Therefore, they do what they propose. Tanmateix, three appreciations. If we want to provide services, we need to abandon the central urban gaze. The same criteria for cities cannot be applied to the rural world. Two very simple examples. In terms of habitat, in rural areas we have a habitat problem, but they cannot catalogue empty habitats or consider them to the effects that the law of the right to habitat says because the letter of Article 3 of the law of the right to habitat says that a habitat is not considered empty if this is in a town with a population loss. And, therefore, all of the following articles, in terms of persuasion or coercion, which are used to complete the social function of housing, cannot be applied. And, therefore, we bring tools to combat depopulation. Or in the educational sphere, at the time of classifying the children of the food service and school transport is done on the basis of whether they are compulsory or not; and at the wrong name ‘aggregated people', students who consider them non-compulsory..., so this ends up being a hardship that causes many families to choose not to live in these people. They are very simple questions and they could be fixed without even mere presuppositional parties. Second appreciation. Apart from everything they say to do and we don't know why they don't do it, there's a very important question that doesn't go to court, that it's to deploy the law of agricultural land to promote the distribution of land through the land bank, and, at times, to make the economic impact of agro-industry, which is the most economically powerful industry in Catalonia, sees the rural world, where there are less than fifty per cent of this industry, because it is concentrated in few hands. And this is giving real support to the transformation of the food producer into origin and favouring the activity and the generational replenishment of agricultural cooperatives. I, for the last – third and last appreciation – there is a question that must be stopped, that is to ask..., or that must be done, that it is to ask the trinxation of the territory based on renewable macroprojects. That's what we discussed, Congresswoman Serret. We think that we are showing that renewable macro-projects in no case generate wealth in the territory or stop depopulation, but the opposite. And what we need is a transformation, an energy transition from the local, protecting and supporting public-community initiatives, because, in the end, when we talk about energy sovereignty, in case we are talking about giving even more support to the big companies of IBEX 35, which are now out of green capitalism. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.114.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.115.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... the truth is that three-quarters of the same has passed us. We read the report, it surprised us, and above all it killed us. And he took us down because it's true that there may have been an inquiry that might not have ended in a young man. That is to say, if we want to reinforce the importance it has for this government and for this Parliament and for the parliamentary group proposing the rural agenda, it is good that we make an inquiry, it is good that we are able to bring the matter to the House, but if we do not have anything to say at the level of impulses of public policies we may not make a move. And I think this is the feeling that we all have left. Do we want to give importance to the rural agenda? Think of it, think of it as if of the organizations, as we give it importance in our actions in the territory, but think of it also at the level of Parliament. I believe that it was a far more institutional act that could be able to agree in this Parliament on a timetable and a presuppositionary commitment to the rural agenda than a motion that practically merely outlines the general lines of intervention of the agenda and is firm in the compromise to deploy and complete it. Because, of course, it puts us all on motions... debate generic motions that, in the first place, make it impossible for the dialogue and the debate. If we can't talk about calendars, about presuppositional priority, about which policies we put the emphasis at the time of thinking about the rural world, on the background we don't allow parliamentary debate, and what we do is an amen. "Are we in agreement with the rural agenda? Yes, amen. We approve them unanimously. Come to the next plenary. And we think it's hard to face the debate. Because, of course, we find measures such as – and some have already been mentioned – deploying the rural agenda as quickly as possible. Perfect, all right. I'd just miss it, too. Guarantee social rights and decent services, guarantee essential economic services. Who? What? On what assumption? When? I think this is the phone call, because that's what we all agree with. To face climate change, to advance towards food sovereignty, to ensure inter-departmental action on the part of the Government. I understand that this government is proud to be able to approve of interdepartmental things and not to throw the dishes in the head, but I don't think it's a very exciting vote. And it will. I understand that there is a tension between how we preserve the autonomy of the rural agenda, what has been decided, what has been articulated through an agenda that is autonomous and that is built across the territory, and what we can claim, especially the groups that participate in the agriculture council, through this Parliament. I understand that, but surely this work is not so much in strengthening the general principles, but in accelerating the commitments of government. And that's where we think there's room for agreement, that we can all find each other and that there's an interesting political, economic and presuppositional debate. Therefore, we shall abstain from the assembly of the young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.116.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Matías Alonso, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.117.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, señoores i señoors deputats... First of all, let it be noted that the objective of achieving balance and sustainability throughout the territory, the objective of achieving socio-economic development, the objective of preserving the environment, the objective of improving services in the rural world to guarantee equal opportunities and equitable treatment by the Autonomous Administration of the Generalitat are also shared objectives by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Having said that, we are dealing with a motion by Squerra Republicana de Catalunya that should probably not have been tabled. In fact, if they had not done so, it would not be the first time that, after an auto-bomb inquiry, an inquiry aimed at the clarification of the adviser or, in this case, of the adviser of the branch, the agricultural adviser, renamed as Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda, does not translate into a motion. Of course they are in their right to present the, as they have done, and I must tell you that in this case it is to be thanked, not for the fact that it is conceived in all their parliamentary development as a good occasion for the clarification of a councilwoman of Esquerra, not even because they raise in their motion various issues that, being reasonable, should for months be a priority in the government action that drives the council, that of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. Because, let us not be fooled, it is not acceptable for the Government to self-impose the implementation of political measures that are already part of its priorities, or at least should be part of its priorities. The fact that they have submitted this motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rural agenda is to be thanked because their parliamentary procedure and the amendments presented by their cohabitation partner in the Government of the Generalitat allow us to give a very accurate idea of the reality of the government that presides Republican Left in the person of Mr Aragonès, a president of the Generalitat who seems to be not entirely loved by his former mentor, Mr Oriol Junqueras, now convinced, current president of Republican Left and who seems to want to punish him by omitting his presence in that commemorative poster of the ninety-one years of creation of Esquerra, in which Mr Aragonès, who calls himself « president of the Republican Generalitat – come on, go on – is an absent president. Well, I'm not going to go into any more internal issues of a party that commemorates anniversaries demanding present and past thugs, leaving aside the president, the first president of Esquerra in the Generalitat of Catalonia recovered. I must confess that I have always seen this government of cohabitation formed by Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya, which was constituted – we must remember – thanks to the support of those who proclaim themselves to be anti-system but who have adapted to the system perfectly, which has the support of instrumental crutch every time they need it from the franchise of Podemos in Catalonia..., I must confess to them, I say, that I have always seen this government of cohabitation as a kind of cabin of the Marx brothers. But the parliamentary process of this motion has broadened the cinematic spectrum. They are improving their sluggishness, and in this debate the reference is another of the masterpieces of the Marx brothers, One night in the opera. The amendment presented to us by Junts per Catalunya is that of 'the contracting party of the first part is the contracting party of the first part and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So yes, the motion has been, in this sense, more than opportune. And the amendment tabled by Junts, therefore, has no waste. " That the motion is on the rural agenda? So let's talk about the urban agenda, which is my negotiation, raise Mr Puigdemont's longing pupils, jealous as they are not to miss the slightest opportunity for the car bomb, even if it is fagociating a motion from his cohabitational partner. A show of the internal division of two political formations that, far from having as a priority to exercise government action within the autonomous government of Catalonia, within the autonomous government of the Generalitat, are disputed hegemony in the dwindling separatist sphere of Catalonia. A motion, in short, which should have been saved by double counting. On the one hand, because what they ask in this motion, what they urge the Government of the Generalitat to do, is in their hands. Do it and that's it; don't ask. On the other hand, because they would have avoided the pullout in the form of amendments that their cohabitation partner has placed on them throughout the morrillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.118.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.119.0	Quickly. One, the emena we've incorporated... we've traded in front of the young man. Obviously, we want to ruralize all policies. This also means all the policies that are urban planning and urban planning and, therefore, also the urban agenda, because we want to preserve the agricultural soil and we want to incorporate these needs that have urban municipalities at urban level. Regarding the opposition groups, I don't know if they liked people or liked them very much, because they haven't presented a single address to this young man. And, in fact, what marks this young man is governance, which is essential in order to be able to advance with all the guarantees on this rural agenda. And the calendar already said the councillor the other day: on May 24th there will be a government agreement that will approve the rural agenda, which will be presented by May 20th. And I suppose the next day the PSC in his office will make a copy, paste all these proposals that have come out of the territory, because what the territory has done is not a strategic plan, it is a retreat of proposals. This rural agenda is the one that demands the territory. And I suppose you'll make a copy, hit us and present it here to Parliament. And, honestly, we agree with a lot of things, don't we? , which also gave us the company of the CUP, and we try to push them. Already from this legislature, we have made this guarantee that we will not find children in small municipalities that I need. Therefore, we are constantly there. We are trying to encourage young people to have generational replenishment, to have transparency in the value chain, to have this spread of land space law and also to preserve land space before the speculative investments of some energy installation projects. They're acting as if they can't stop. And this rural agenda will continue to work. And yes, what we propose we want to do, because we are not convinced, because we are not convinced. And this is the point of confirming this conviction with this necessary proposal for what the governance of the rural agenda should be, which must involve the entire government. Because, we insist, this rural agenda cannot be required as any strategic plan, they are direct proposals of the territory. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.120.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to take a long time to get the twenty-two on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into digital espionage and repression]] [[302-00144/13]] Let's move on, then, to the motion following the Government's inquiry into digital espionage and repression, which was presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.121.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, we present to you today a motion subsequent to the inquiry that we made to the Vice-President of the Government on the "Catalangate". It is a text in line with what we approved this morning and from the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group we propose to expand with some aspects that we consider important. As we say, twenty-five days ago, the scandal of the "Catalangate and we continue to have no credible explanation. The president of the most progressive government in history, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, did not give the face or head explanation. The PSOE has prevented the establishment of a committee of inquiry at the Congress of Deputies, even after warning that they themselves have also been molested. They seem to have reason to know the truth. More things. From the information revealed by various media, we know that the government has authorized the espionage with Pegasus to separate independenceists. But what about the other forty-seven? And, above all, they justify it, all folded, engaging in that we are people who want to implement independence and that we do not defend rights and freedoms. None of the Spanish government has wondered what consequences this can have in Europe, especially in countries such as Germany or Belgium, among others? The European Court of Justice? Or the General Court of the European Union? If I were Pedro Sánchez I would start making urgent political decisions. We already know that the Spanish president is in charge of filtering documentation to try to justify espionage to his governing partners, friends and acquaintances. But he doesn't. Mirin, democratically chosen politicians, journalists, doctors, university professors and lawyers have been spying on each other in the exercise of their functions and also in their private lives. And that, although they want to love it, has only one reading: a country spying on its political dissent is a country with authoritarian tics. Their MEPs explain this precisely to the European Parliament. What's going on with them here? We therefore need all the explanations of the Spanish President and the immediate opening of a committee that is effective and comprehensive. We demand the establishment of a committee to investigate Spanish Courts with lights and stenographers to clarify what has happened and to clarify all the responsibilities. In this young man we also want to place the Government of the Generality in search of all possible mechanisms to solve all legitimate doubts to the citizens of our country in cases of cyber espionage, where there will be violations of fundamental rights such as intimacy. From Junts we believe, precisely, that cyber espionage is not a game. We take this seriously, above all the consequences that it can have. And we are therefore also asking for the creation of a service for the victims of illegal digital espionage. We need a service that protects victims from intimidation. In terms of understanding with the state that is spying on us and considering that this is not a situation of democratic normality, but on the contrary, it is necessary to freeze all institutional relations with the Spanish Government until the facts of "Catalangate" become clearer. And, as Europe does take cases of illegal espionage seriously, we want to provide all the information on this case to carry out the relevant investigations. The European Commission on Values and Transparency has textually lamented the abuse of technologies like Pegasus to spy on political opponents and, especially, journalists. But don't you see that they're doing the ridiculous thing in Europe again? There's not a blanket big enough to cover this scandal. The day that the tempts of the state's locksmiths fall and uncover what it has cost to spy on us, they will have to answer many questions. In the face of violations of rights and freedoms, they will always find us face to face and willing to know the whole truth. That's why we're asking this young man for support. And then I will also comment on the statements that have been made and that we have asked. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.122.0	In the defence round of the papers presented, first of all, the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.123.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House of Commons for Catalonia, you are bringing here today a motion on the 'Calanfake', because this is the name that this case must have, a case, let us say, of which there are no certainties. There can't be those because the vast majority of what you're saying here are just assumptions, they're infuses, they're, of course, fake news, basically, coming from a study led or led by an alleged researcher, who's basically a Carles Puigdemont fan. Therefore, I prefer, from our group, to call you, to this matter, "Calanfake, that you, by the way, with your traditional, your proverbial exaggeration, have dared even to compare it with the Watergate. In fact, some of their representatives have come to say..., even on TV3 it was said the other day that..., it was spoken of..., it was said: "From Watergate to Catalangate. To me, the truth, let's say, the ability to surprise us and to generate shame from others, for I think it has no match and, of course, no limit. The truth is, it's not surprising either. Those who have come to compare what happened on the One of October little less than with the massacre of Tiananmen Square..., to me, frankly, it seems to me that, between one thing and another, for, certainly, it has all the meaning that you call this«Catalangate. However, I believe it is important to say what can be done in Europe to combat fake news. And, from this point of view, I would like to thank my partner, our partner, Maite Pagazaurtundúa who today asked the European Commission to investigate the nationalist interferences, the interferences of the Puigdemont government..., sorry, the interferences of the Putin government, the interferences of the Kremlin in the celebration of October One. I think the interesting thing is to know what is behind the connection between the Puigdemont government and the Kremlin environment. That meeting which Mr Puigdemont held with Mr Sadovnikov in the afternoon before proclaiming, from this Parliament, the unilateral declaration of independence, the strenuous unilateral declaration of independence, but which, in any case, had the will to generate a de facto situation... It is clear that the citizens of Catalonia deserve, out of respect for our own security and our own integrity, to know what about these interferences of the Kremlin in the internal affairs of Spain and, specifically, with regard to our community. The truth is that we must thank, all Members of this Parliament, thank our colleague Maite Pagaza for submitting this study request to the European Commission for analysis of these links, as well as thank you for the letter that my colleague Jordi Cañas has also sent to the University of Toronto to give us more details, to learn more about the origin of this research. Because the truth is that all of this smells like a new fake new of nationalism, all of this smells like a new bubble of nationalism, which all it does, I insist, is generate this kind of bubbles, this kind of infundia to try to denigrate the rest of Spain and denigrate the Government of Spain. Unfortunately, as I was commenting on this morning's motion by Esquerra Republicana, the Spanish government seems to care relatively little about those attempts to denigrate our democracy, which we, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, regret. By the way, when you talk about espionage, I want to remind you of one thing, Members of the Assembly of Junts per Catalunya, which is precisely that the CNI, as it has been known, recognizes the investigation – which is not espionage – of 17 persons, 17 persons related to criminal acts, facts proven to be criminal, with judicial authorization, of course, and, moreover, related to the possible commission of new crimes according to judicial investigations. I therefore believe that no one should tear their clothes apart in the face of the normal functioning of a democratic rule of law. And yet, it is alarming what was discovered in the vicinity of October 17th, in the autumn of 17th, when the National Police intercepted an unmarked van of the Mossos d'Esquadra with information about leaders of constitutionalism, with constitutionalist journalists, with people from the world of constitutionalist civil society who had been investigated precisely by the Government of the Generalitat. That is espionage, that is out of the law, and that is proper to an autocratic and authoritarian government. Therefore, I understand that you, with your approach to sui generis democracy, pro domo sua..., sincerely believe that it is normal for you to have such a peculiar view of what should be a democratic rule of law. But, fortunately, Spain is a democratic state of law, and those who attack – and excuse, President, that I have finished – against the integrity of Spain, logically, must be investigated by the secret services of our country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. And, of course, we will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.124.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.125.0	Thank you, President. Well, we say we can do this this morning: obviously, we are ahead of a hard fact, and we believe and think, as we have done these weeks, that we need to set three clear objectives. First, to know exactly what happened – we also said this morning – how, who and why did the investigation go and, obviously, also spying through Pegasus? Secondly, it also determines who the responsibilities are. And we believe that we are at a time when, first of all, we know what has happened, and obviously, when we know who is not directly the most responsible will assume the responsibilities, whoever is, and we have also said this by active and passive. And, obviously, we believe that it is good news that the resignation of the director of the CNI has already taken place. And, finally, also keep the guarantees that it will not happen again, take decisions and take action so that a case like this will not happen again. Therefore, it is important – and we also say this morning – that the information, the documentation of the CNI is disclassified, in order to know the concrete motivations that the investigations set out and, therefore, the espionage of these leaders or persons linked to the independence movement, but also to know why the authorities of certain investigations were denied, and also to know who: if it was the CNI, if there were some elements linked to the CNI or other elements linked to the State or private sectors that left the investigation, that they did not have judicial authority, right? And, as he said this morning, we said, "We need to know what, we need to know who, we need to know how. We have to, from here, also know all the information, and, therefore, it is also necessary to set aside the relevant investigation commissions. But also – we say, in the second term – take responsibility, and also fix as the third object the guarantees because it does not return to produce. And here – this morning was the vice president of the Spanish state government, Yolanda Díaz – the law of official secrets has to be changed. We believe that we cannot continue with a law that is not adapted to the European context and, obviously, also declassify, as it initially stated, the documentation that is needed to know all the information. We will vote in favour of all points in the House. Also thank the group proposing that 'nshagi accept a slogan, which I think defines with more rigour, probably, what has happened. But we will vote that not at the point and, that talks about freezing institutional relations with the State and with the Spanish Government. We believe that it is not possible to put up with the dialog, that it is not possible to freeze the dialog. For us the dialog, the negotiation and the agreement are strategic, they are not tactical. And it's precisely in the hardest moments where the dial is to be defended. I want to remember that most of the investiture or even the dialog and negotiation started at a very complicated time. It started when the independent leaders were in prison. And we went to an electoral campaign defending that this dialect was necessary, that the freedom of the independent leaders who were in prison and that we also had to get solutions was necessary. So, I think it's fun and, I mean, it's strategic and it's not tactical. And, look, we have the feeling that the vote on this concrete point, the vote that sets and anticipates the freezing of institutional relations with the Government of the Spanish State, which, in short, means breaking the dialog, is not against the Government of the State or against the President. Actually, it's against a president and it's against a party. It's against Mr. Aragones and it's against the Republican Left. That's what we're voting for today. And, ultimately, I think it's a more aesthetic position than it doesn't stratify. Why, of course, if what we really set out to do... really, and we were consistent and wanted to freeze all institutional relations with the government of the State and, therefore, break all the dialectic bridges, what happens with the agreement of the Barcelona Parliament? We're not ahead of such a tough situation, and you can still rule with the PSC here. Yesterday you directly accused that Mr. Illa was responsible for « Catalangate. What, for example, happens to the agreements that have been signed to distribute the charges? The heavyweight union still has to choose. Do you keep your agreement? Surely, Keep him that I believe, if I did not err, with the agreement that they have will be the PSC that will propose the syndicate of heaviness of Catalonia. And finally, what about the Olympic Games? Winter Olympics... or are you telling me it's a technical relationship? There is nothing more political than the inauguration of some winter Olympic games, in which there is the king, the President of the Government of the State, the President of the Generality and there is the hymn of Spain. Therefore, I also believe that, in the end, it is essential that we keep the dialog, that we keep the bet for the dialog. And this is not contradictory with demanding three things, I insist: knowing what happened, responsibilities of who they are and at the highest level if it proves that they are responsible, and, thirdly, obviously, giving the guarantees that this can never happen again. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.126.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.127.0	Thank you, President. Authorityism or democracy? This is the background debate we've got going on today. Mass espionage is not the latest and most powerful illustration, an illustration, in fact, that culminates a path of constitutional regression begun many years ago in the Spanish State. A return characterized and shared by the two great political forces: popular and socialist. A regression, also, culminated with the rebreig to the last proposal for a settlement formulated in 2005 from this chamber for the great majority of the Catalan democratic representation. It is clear that the message sent to us by the State: "You can be independent, you can run for election. What they can't win is what they can't be part of equal conditions of state institutions. That is to say, it proclaims democratic discrimination in the Spanish State. Some have full rights, others have them reduced and limited. Some can aspire to obtain majority support for their political project, others cannot pretend to turn it into institutional or legislative results, for the amps that follow the support that we have obtained. Is that what they mean by democracy and the rule of law? From 2010, in view of the massive and continued peaceful reaction of the Catalan citizenry, the return to the Constitution is converted into generalised repression. From then on, we have experienced a continuous path of repression as the only instrument to curb the political and social evidence that emerged from the Catalan democratic majority, with the culmination of October 1 and 3. That exceptional democratic expression with a European measure, powerful and peaceful, generated an explosion of state violence, encapsulated by the king of Spain and followed until today by judicial persecution, imprisonment, exile, economic police. Now we see with surprise, but above all with democratic indignation, that the episode two years ago has become the obscene exhibition of a state that is proclaimed big brother, that spy, invades and controls the citizenry without shame or shame. The Leviatan State acts with impunity and with all the instruments of power in its abyss: security forces, pro-government, intelligence services, courts and prosecutors – as we are seeing today, shamefully – public and private communication media, all recognizable, in fact, in the history of the democratic struggle of our societies. The most relevant policy is that PP, Ciutadans and VOX applaud with enthusiasm this authoritative involvement. In fact, we in Spain have witnessed a process of improper appropriation of values and democratic institutions that initially belonged to the joint venture of the society, beginning with the own Constitution of 78, used and abused until its prostitution for the same people who originally rejected it. The relevant policy, therefore, is that Spanish socialism has accepted and led this authoritarian involvement. That is why today we are talking about the open pole between authoritarianism and democracy: the authoritarianism of the state facing the democratic conviction of the majority of Catalan society. We consciously exercise the role of proposal and conquest of a new democratic status at the service of the 7_million_i_mig of citizens, including you, lords of VOX, Citizens and PP, who would want us illegal, closed, banned and silenced, precisely because we are democrats and because you are as Catalan and Catalan as all of us. [[Greetings.]] We face openly the risk of sharing rights and institutions with those who want to deny and destroy them. We have this role in the double way that the events of the last few weeks are beginning to adopt: the persistent and resilient strength of our democratic representation in the institutions – the Government and Parliament of Catalonia, Congress of Deputies, the Senate, the European Parliament – ; the requirement, second, of rectification, reparation, non-repetition and accountability to those responsible for this massive violation of political and civil rights. The conclusion is clear, and the question that is left open today is also: are the Democrats of this country prepared to act accordingly and to regain the full force of democratic convictions? Is there the Government, and particularly the Spanish Socialist Government, to abandon the ship of authoritarianism, to return to the democratic path, to the recognition of rights and freedoms, to the respectful consideration of Catalan democratic aspirations? When do you think you're back to get into amnesty negotiation and recognition of the right of self-determination? We will vote in favour, naturally, of all the points of this motion, including the papers presented and accepted. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.128.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.129.0	Thank you, President. Vice President... he gave them this morning: the Government of Spain and its bodies scrupulously complement legality. The intelligence service of the Spanish State, the National Intelligence Centre, has a public service commitment that makes us a serious country, a reliable country and a responsible country. All the activities of the National Intelligence Centre are always in agreement with the right and with judicial authority. In our country, judgment is also the one that controls the National Center of Intelligence, motivating the reason for its decisions. I also want to make it clear to you that the position of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia and Unity to advance is that, if anyone has acted outside the state of law, who pays for the consequences – of the CNI or who it is, huh? Mr Maragall said: "Democracy or authoritarianism? So, "really, to the question, which was rhetorical, it's very easy to answer, isn't it? : democracy. The Socialists and the Socialists are more than 143 years old defending and working because everyone can have their own ideas and their freedom and defend them in the law – the law, one of the most cherished benefits in a democracy. You... the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia asks for many explanations. But, asked to explain, they could also explain to us what happened on October 26, 2017 at the depatx of the Canonges House. Because you don't have to want us to stop by that the president's office will have any city that walks through the square of Sant Jaume, and that someone will come down and kindly invite him to have coffee with the president of the Generality of Catalonia: « Passi, passi. The one who passed, or who passed, was a Nikolai Sadovnikov, who was not any person; he was a diplomat of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Funnel veils]] – No, Mr.Maragall, we don't run away from study; now I'll explain why we don't run away from study, eh? – which is gathered not one, no, twice, let us know, with President Puigdemont. What did they talk about? The rain, the sun? We don't believe them. We do not believe them because the attempts to destabilize various countries, with democratic elections, which are produced, of the European Union, were already evident at that time, also in the United States; interference on the part of the Kremlin, right? And, from journalistic information from international media, they could also make a wide list of people linked to the Kremlin's power circle, to President Putin: Dimitrenko, Zhirinovski, Markov, Lavrov – all end with ov – Medoev, eh? Everyone related to people who went through there and didn't want to... it's like, they went through there. You will have to explain the various lines of matrioixcas that in all this process along these years there has been, right? Who voted against in the European Parliament to set up a commission of inquiry? So the Junts Euro MPs for Catalonia, and, surprisingly, also gathered for Republican Left. Together, obviously, you'll have to settle your contradictions, huh? – now they have a congressional process, which they can do perfectly – if they let themselves be watered down by populism or maintain their position, which perfectly defined the founder of Democratic Convergence, Mr. Jordi Pujol: pro-Western and pro-atlantic. I'm gonna finish... that could have served Mr. Rufian perfectly, couldn't it? , who was talking about James Bond. Miri, the James Bond Martini was mixed up, but not agitated; you do it all the wrong way, sweep it all and shake it all up, huh? And at these moments, at a time of trouble, of crisis, it's just to address these issues from the dialog. It's the only way to hear us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.130.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.131.0	Yes, thank you, President. It's not easy to position yourself in the face of this slippery vodevil, trumped up by scarecrows, lies, gossip, informational manipulation and generalised ridiculousness, is it? Then, we will use the chronological sequence of what has happened, apparently, to try to position us before this danteco spectacle starring governments of the Generalitat and governments of Spain. And, a few weeks ago, separatism has denounced that it has been denounced by the Government of Spain. They put the cry in the sky and forget that you were the first to commission illegal espionages through Cesicat, with the Cerberus program, to relevant constitutionalists on the eve of the coup d'état of 17. We also know that Mr Puigdemont and Mr Puignero, here present and who laughs so much, when he was at the head of that computer intelligence and telecommunications ring, spied on different constitutional leaders. They also tried to buy spy material in Israel and also tried to destroy thirty-six boxes that walked from the incinerator of Sant Adrià del Besòs and that only CNP agents could paralyze it. What were they going to burn in those boxes? [[Some applause.]] What were they going to burn in those boxes? But it is that, in addition, last week we knew that Mr Puigdemont has met twice with an emissary, a diplomat, of Putin's team one day before giving the coup d'état in Catalonia. And yesterday we read in press that Mr. Aragonès was suspected of coordinating urban terrorists [[remorse of the voice]] of the CDRs before the courts. That was in the press yesterday. Conclusion: her crocodile tears are embarrassing. [[The Vice President and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories leaves the Sessions Hall.]] You can go, because it's the best you can do. [[Some applause.]] Secondly, the insurrections of separatism to prepare for the coup d'état that they eventually gave and that they promise every day that they will give full justification for being spied on and monitored by the relevant judicial authorization. Because you, separatists, are a real danger to democracy. Any country in the world would protect itself from an ongoing attempt to destroy its national unity—anyone—, its territorial integrity, and the bulging of constitutional foundations. By the way, this is the main mission of the CNI under Law 11/2002. Are you surprised that, after daily threatening to break democracy, the Constitution, national coexistence, the State tries to defend itself? Are you so surprised? Do they publicly whisper that they will do it again and then the offended ones are made? [[Some applause.]] For, frankly, it is you, as I have told you before, who are a threat to Spain, and Spain has to defend itself. If it takes more spies to come. Third, third chapter of this vodevil. [[Widow's remorse.]] He says: as they have Sanchez kneeling at their feet, he gave them an insulting pardon, whitening them daily, sitting them at embarrassing negotiating tables, forgetting their beating nature and putting them on the Commission of Illegal Secrets. And the day after that committee meeting [[the remorse of the voice persists]] the prosecution asks to impute Mr. Rufián. It's also in the press. I know you... Madam President... [[Rialles.]] If they let me talk better, huh? Yeah, try to moderate the room.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.132.0	No, no, don't worry, because here the one that's not moderate in absolute is you. I mean... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.133.0	No, no. I'm talking, I'm thinking and I'm just hearing noise and you don't call anyone to order. I'm on it. Besides, Mr. Sanchez, doing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.134.0	I've stopped her time, but be aware of what I said.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.135.0	One second, I'm taking the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.136.0	No, no. If I don't count the time for now. I'll count it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.137.0	In addition, Sánchez, making an unprecedented international ridicule, to save furniture and the legislature recognizes, two months from the NATO summit, that he too was spied on. Great. The truth is, this is a terrible voodoo. Mr Sánchez, you are also guilty of discrediting Spain, of discrediting the Spanish information services, you have turned Spain into an unreliable partner and the laughing stock of Europe after you have handed over – suspiciously also and in a very quick, hasty, unconsensual and unintelligent way – the Sahara to Morocco. In short, the left, dismissing the head of the CNI, rewards those who rose up against Spanish democracy in a coup d'état in 2017 and punishes those who defend it. All this is simply shameful, and we will therefore vote against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.138.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.139.0	Thank you, President. Mirin, we have no doubt that we are ahead of the most important case of political espionage of the 21st century in Europe. And it happened governing the PSOE and Podemos. It has occurred against independence. That's unequivocal. A spying first denied and then partially assumed for the Spanish government and, which is still worse, then claimed for Minister Robles and, which I know, neither denies for Mr. Pedro Sánchez nor for the Socialist Party. Some State security apparatuses that illegally spy; a judiciary that, instead of protecting rights, collaborates to violate them, and a government and a socialist party that claims it. Look, before we do this again, we'll repeat that it's true, and that means a commission of inquiry that puts on lights and stencils, assumes responsibility for the state and the government, debugs and resignations, repairs and verification instruments that this is not going to happen again. And, to be sure, the declassification of the consignors, without which the right to defend the spy persons is prevented. And, as a provisional conclusion, can we put the safeguard of our civil and political rights in the hands of a state that puts its unity and the raison d'etat over the democratic raison d'être? Obviously, the answer is no. We can't keep them in the hands. We would vote in favour of all the points of the motion, but we would like to speak clearly of three questions before our intervention is over. The first question: we certainly do not want negotiations or dialogues with a government and with a state that does not guarantee conditions for a democratic dialogue. And that's because this state and the government of this state don't take the bases of this democratic dialog, which can't be other than self-determination and amnesty. And because, moreover, they spy on us and support repression, fulminating the mark of democratic guarantees that a political negotiation must respect to be credible and effective. Therefore, to freeze relations, yes, obviously, but not only for Pegasus, also for the rest of the repression and also for the refusal of the State and its government to resolve this conflict democratically. A second asked. Together for Catalonia and the Government of the Generality, with one hand they talk about asking questions about institutional relations with the State, which after that, in practice, they don't, but with the other they cling to maintaining and even asking for the negotiations in Catalonia that you share with the oligarchies and powers of the State, such as the Winter Olympics, the expansion of the airport or the American Cup. With one hand remorse and with the other pedolen. They fly and hurt. And this is one of his main fevers in front of the state. And the third question. To the Republican Left and to the Government that it remains clear to them, that it is very clear that, for us, the fundamental rights that have been violated by the espionage of the State with Pegasus cannot be a currency of change in terms of the President or the Government of Spain. If they do, if they make the huge mistake of doing it, they know they don't represent us. Don't push our rights; not in our name. And, as we have already said – and let's repeat it again now – before espionage, democratic radicalism, no concessions, and before the state and the government apply it, self-determination. And before I finish, in the seconds that remain, Mr. Martín Blanco believes that in his intervention he said that the people we have been recognized as being investigated by the CNI, according to the media, among them myself, we are people with perfectly proven crimes. That's what he said, I think. I, President, do not know if a ghost and a lie of this caliber can be admitted into this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] So, I'll tell you one thing, you and everyone who can think like you. Look, I haven't committed any crime – I haven't committed any crime – but I assure you – I assure you – that all those actions and all those initiatives that I've made in the past years, and always, to legitimately absolve my country's independence I will always repeat them, without exception. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.140.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I offer you the opportunity to withdraw from the session diary this lack against the presumption of innocence of the persons investigated..., spies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.141.0	Jo, on the contrary, President. Thank you for your kindness. I would say to Mr. Riera that when we look at the newsroom, we see what each one of us has said and we see that I have said: "There are perfectly proven crimes and there are no others who are being investigated for the possible commission of crimes. Oh, come on, let's see things. If you're talking about ghosts, make it very clear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.142.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.143.0	...that you're the one who made a free ghost...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.144.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.145.0	...understandable and legitimate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.146.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, when I ask you, please, listen to me, I don't keep talking. I have given him the opportunity to remove from the session diary a flagrant violation of the presumption of innocence. Say'm if you want me to record this withdrawal or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.147.0	I give you the opportunity to exercise the presidency with neutrality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.148.0	No, no, You don't give me any opportunity to exercise the presidency, Mr. Martín Blanco. It does not exceed its limits in its functions. The presidency has been voted for the Members of this Parliament, not because you grant me nothing. I have only asked you if you want to remove this violation of the presumption of innocence from the session log, not to extend this argument. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.149.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... I didn't say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.150.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.151.0	You're running the presidency...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.152.0	So it's been very clear. It's here. All right. It's been very clear. Let us continue with the intervention of the Mixed Group. I have the word Mrs Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.153.0	Yes, thank you, President. Let's see if we can land the debate a little bit. What is happening is that, as we have to be here censoring opinions and expressions that violate the presumption of innocence, we should perhaps withdraw the text of this motion, because here they say true barbarities that no one has tried. And therefore, for I do not know, if we become so exquisite with the presumption of innocence, let us do with everything. I want to start, above all, with a subject of terminology, because here we are talking about espionage, but here what has been done has been a legitimate judicial investigation. The other day, explanations were also given. Mr Rufián has already taken care of the matter. You, Socialists, put him in the Committee on Official Secrets so that he will then leave, Mr Rufián, what is going on there. That's the trust their government partners give them. Well, look, espionage, in case you have any doubts, was what you did precisely in 2017 – you have already remembered it; now that you have returned, Mr. Puignero, I hope you will not leave, that you will not be offended. But it is that you were literally caught with the ice cream cart, which were going to burn the documentation of that espionage – now yes – about constitutionalism, journalists, lawyers, deputies, too, from this chamber. And you didn't get as great or as scary as you're doing now. You weren't so worried. Mr Rius said in his exhibition that there is not a large enough blanket to cover what has happened, is there not? Well, you did find a big flag to cover up all that scandal. In fact, you wave it just for that, to cover your misery, for that you wave the flag. I love the point in the motion where he talks about freezing institutional relations with the Spanish Government. I mean, you've been giving the baton for land, sea and air for three weeks: you come here, you make the super-offends, a constant gesticulation, but then you ask to freeze institutional relations. Man, I see they're sagging a little. I mean, you're ruling with the Socialist Party in the Barcelona Diputation. Why do they maintain that covenant if they say that their partners are not reliable, if they are accusing them of spying? And the socialist lords, three-quarters of the same, who have these people investigated by the CNI because they do not trust them – and rightly so – and yet have them supporting the government. It's just that it's all about a hypocrisy that can't stand anywhere, really. You, three weeks already with the 'buloggate', because this is what is a bubble and is a continuous fake, one after the other. Yesterday, in addition, Mr Puignero also [[remorse of the voice]] He devoted himself to vacillate at the control session to Mr. Illa himself. Is it that you don't have a little bit of shame now? We know that Sánchez has none, that he does not care to drag the institutions of the state, that he does not mind to charge to the director of the CNI. Let it also go ridiculous has made this week Mrs. Robles with that sluggish: that it was not resignation, that it was replacement, that it was not..., it was a stoppage like a big house. You have loaded it because you have asked for it Republican Left. That, I insist, come here to give lessons, Republican Left and also the partners of Junts, when it was they who coerced freedoms in this very Parliament, when they were and continue to violate rights, when they are the ones who ignore the laws, when they are the ones who disobey the sentences, when they are the ones who stole the personal data of all Catalans – who, by the way, do not know where they are; they must have someone in the Kremlin, since they are so friendly all – when they are the ones who gave a blow in Catalonia, these, those who come to give lessons, those who come here from santurrons. What lessons are you going to give? Really, don't be offended, I insist. Rufián told him: if you go from apprentices of young men, believe James Bonds; if he told him with all the letters. This very week we knew that meeting of Puigdemont with Putin, with people from around Putin, just before the coup in Catalonia. What do you come here to say? What do you come here to give lessons from nothing? When, moreover, they insist that they will do it again, that they will not repent and that when they can pull forward again. I really want to spend time and energy on this subject, I insist, in the "buloggate this which you have taken out of your sleeve, it seems to me to me that it is an offence and an insult to all Catalans, who are hoping to have a serious government, who work for the real problems and who is already left with so much spy film and James Bond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.154.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.155.0	Thank you very much. I'll see to it that I'm going fast, because there's plenty to say. To the deputy of VOX, to whom it is generally not worth answering, but the subconscious failed, because he said « Committee of Illegal Secrets, as it were. [[Rialles.]] I mean, I don't have to say anything anymore. [[Greetings.]] All the rest that they have used the documentation of the Squadron Mosses, it is very easy, take the mobile, look at any means of communication as it ended: this one was archived, because all the documentation that was there was legal. I don't want to... forgive me. And refer to the things that have happened on the part of the Republican Left and that have improved the text and to which I want to give thanks, and also to the commons, that we have also been able, therefore, to deal with this text and, therefore, I also want to thank them. To the people of Ciutadans and the Socialists, who have said that there are no certainties. Okay. So, Citizen Lab is a laboratory dependent on the University of Toronto, with twenty-one years of experience, cybersecurity experts for twenty-one years. They're issuing a report. And, besides, there's a peer review, what, who does it? Amnesty International. Neither is it? I don't suppose Amnesty International deserves them either... You're looking for a sun of justice and you're working the sprinkler so you don't get to the catalangate. Do you know what happens when she's in full water? That grass is cream. And what you're doing is the five phases of the dol. The first one, she denied it: the Minister for Security said that Spain is a country where there is no spying, no talking, no information. The second, the anger: they get the Minister of Defense to say what we need to do with the Catalan independenceists, of course. The third one, the negotiation: replace the most responsible of the CNI thinking that this is how they can negotiate something and, in change, Mr. There comes up a few days before to say that this is things that happen. The negotiation is still a table of silence. Fourthly, the depression: when they see that Europe creates a commission of inquiry into Pegasus, they try to justify that they are also investigating themselves here through a commission of official or ‘illegal' secrets, a commission set up for a Francoist law. And five, acceptance: they already admit they're spying on us. You know what? They will have to accept that in short they will have to clear up responsibilities, because Europe does have justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.156.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that we're still voting on the motions we've tabled this late, which are points 21 and 22 on the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the rural agenda (continuation)]] [[302-00141/13]] We shall begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government on the rural agenda. We begin by voting points 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 2.b, 2.c, 2.d and 2.e. The vote begins. These points were approved with 88 votes in favour and 41 abstentions. We're voting points 1.d and 2.a now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 77 votes in favour and 52 abstentions. We vote points 1.e, 1.g and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 72 votes in favour and 57 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 77 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 41 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was also approved with 72 votes in favour, 11 against and 46 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into digital espionage and repression (continuation)]] [[302-00144/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into digital espionage and repression. And we start by voting point 2. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour and 57 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 110 votes in favour and 19 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 79 votes in favour and 50 votes against. [[Discussion on youth emancipation (continuation)]] [[255-00004/13]] And then we move on to the debate on youth emancipation, the presentation and positioning of the subsequent motions for resolutions to the debate, which have been put forward for the various parliamentary groups. Thus, in order to defend the motions for resolutions and position on the rest of the proposals, we will follow the order of submission to the register, as set out in Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The turnaround will be for a maximum of seven minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.157.0	Thank you, President. We wanted to start the presentation or the defence of our motions for resolutions... I'm going to tell them that it was hard for me to decide how this debate was going to start. I did not know whether to go directly to explain our motions for resolutions, our four motions for resolutions. I'm going to do it, obviously, now. But, after seeing a little and having read the rest of the motions for resolutions, and seeing a little also what happened the other day, I am going to do something unusual and I am going to quote my own colleague Nacho Martín Blanco, who in turn quoted Gasset speaking of liberalism, for putting the former into value: "liberalism is the supreme generosity, the right which the majority grants to the minority, even if that enemy is weak. And I'm saying this for framing the debate that we're going to have, because they're really going to see each other later... I've had the luck in this case..., I don't know if the luck; it would have been better to have listened to everyone later. But the debate that we are going to have, I think, can be included in that introduction to liberalism. And also that which my companion commented on the double morality of mankind, one that preaches and is not practiced, and another that is practiced and is not preached. For these two expressions, which we could probably assign many also..., but I think it is important that we take it into account today. What did Ciutadans present today? What have we presented at this youthful plenary session? First, let me be exposed to my scepticism or, at least, to my scepticism about the ability this plenary will possibly have to influence the policies, in general, that are made on youth. First, what was done in 2013, that a whole series of measures and resolutions were adopted; it was practically unable to affect anything that could have made it possible for other proposals that will certainly not be able to be implemented repeatedly in this plenary, because some of them, from my point of view – which will be adopted, I am sure – are far removed from the reality of our young people, or at least we believe that..., from Citizens we see it this way. We have tabled four motions for resolutions. A general on emancipation, on the inability of our society, in this case our institutions, to respond to the serious problem of emancipation, which has been reducing year after year until reaching eighteen per cent in 2021. I mean, there's a real problem, I'd say generational, that maybe at other times it hasn't been so high, so that you can get someone in that age range, from sixteen to twenty-nine years, to be independent, in your home, to be able to emancipate yourself and actually have the ability to access a home. We have put forward a number of proposals on housing. And we have also made an amendment to all of the many housing proposals that have been approved in recent years in this Parliament. In Catalonia there has been no housing policy in the last ten years – there has been no housing policy. That is, it is not that we can make an amendment, because making an amendment to nothing is practically absurd. Housing policy has not been implemented. The housing policy that has been made has been completely useless. Laws have been adopted to limit rents, that all they have done is take out of the offer of the real estate market flats and, in this case, rental properties, that have made the prices increase, and that the reality that we have right now is that we have the same public park practically as many years ago. Exactly, we continue in the two_per_cent, when we mark ourselves in the housing law a fifteen_per_cent as objective. It hasn't been fulfilled. Nothing's been done. It's okay. It's another thing that doesn't happen. Whatever. Here we're going to talk about housing proposals again. It's going to be said that we're going to change everything... that we're going to change everything, that it's going to be a revolution, this Ple. But I am very afraid that it will not be so; at least in housing and in the emancipation capacity of young people it will not be so. On access to the world of work, we have also tried to make a useful proposal. We also believe that general structural measures are good in this case. It is good, for example, to talk about how we have also spoken this morning about dual VET and education in general as one of our essential pillars of the business fabric – dual VET, VET, because, in a medium and a higher degree, above all, –, about retention of talent, about entrepreneurship – we are also going to talk about and we have made a series of proposals about entrepreneurship – and about our ability to try to ensure that many times the reality of the problems of Catalans, of young Catalans, can be implemented in a series of proposals that I believe are going to achieve or, at least, I hope that they can be supported. These are the two general proposals that we have tabled. Then, we presented a third about our willingness to try to make youth associationism in Catalonia free. And here, then, I will announce one of our proposals – after that, everyone will vote free – on guaranteeing students' rights in public universities to be respected and defended. I think it's important that it be done this way. And the last proposal I think is one of the problems that has arisen from this pandemic, as it is, therefore, a whole series of proposals on mental health, which I believe – and many of us agree with this – also affects this age group in an essential way. What have we found on the other side? We will support everything we consider to be more or less close to the needs and reality of young people. We are not going to be able to approve or we are not going to enter into discussions that are closer to sectarianism, that run counter to those principles that I announced at the beginning of my intervention on liberalism. And little more. I hope that, although I am sceptical, everything that is adopted today or all the resolutions that are adopted today will be useful and that we will not meet again with a plenary, in a few years' time, in which we will be talking again about the fact that things that have never been implemented were adopted at the 2023 plenary session. It probably won't happen, but I'd like it not to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.158.0	Then, and on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Forward Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs. Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.159.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. President, Councillor... I would like to begin by saying hello to the members of the youth organisations that today accompany us again in this monographic plenary, especially the National Youth Council and the Socialist Youth of Catalonia. As I was saying, let's start this intervention by saying that today we have a bitter feeling. On the one hand, we are glad that we were able to celebrate this monographic plenary on youth emancipation, because all groups exposed it yesterday. They exposed the dramatic situation of our young man, of the young man in our country, and needed to address it once and for all the combination of his problems and seek solutions. And, in this sense, as I said, we are celebrating that at these moments we are putting on the political agenda the debate on the youth of Catalonia. But, for another band, we have to regret that we are having this debate again again years later, because nine years ago good proposals came out of this Parliament, good ideas to reverse the situation of young people. Unfortunately, however, he has failed political will on the part of the various governments of Esquerra Republicana, Convergence and Union, Together for Catalonia to bring them to term. And we don't want me to go through the same thing again. We cannot allow ourselves to go back to the same, because the celebration of this monographic plenary is a symptom of us being late, of us carrying many years without giving solutions to a very important part of our people. Because it is obvious that if we look at the data – and many of them have already been commented on yesterday – we will add that we are ahead of a national emergence that requires urgent action. This is not the moment of inaction or indifference. In this sense, our group has presented a series of concrete proposals and actions relating to the central elements of emancipation policies: housing, education and work, the basic tools to build a vital project of future and present. Since we don't have time to explain them all, I'll just refer to some of them. I'll start with the housing proposals. Yesterday they commented on their interventions by my group's companies: we have the lowest youth emancipation taxes of the last hundred years. Access to housing requires urgent action if we are to avoid all the problems that arise from this situation. In this sense, we propose, among others, to set up the thirty-per-cent public housing park reserve for young people, both buying and logging. In addition, as our group prioritizes and considers that in politics, we also propose to establish a timetable for the construction of these habitats between 2025 and 2030. We have also proposed the creation of a plan which, in great detail, seeks to put in a way returnable aid destined for the payment of the entrance of the piss, in barrels where the population is more enveloped and also requires rehabilitation, qualifying them as official protection habitats, thus avoiding future speculation. In the field of education, among other questions, we consider that we need to focus a good part of our efforts on ensuring quality public education, because this, in our view, is the greatest guarantee of equal opportunities we have. This is why, at the format level, we need a determined and courageous bet on vocational training. It is necessary to remove the entry barriers of economic type and to guarantee the freeness of vocational training by eliminating its taxes. And horse, plus – and that's what we've asked for on a number of occasions – re-adjust the offer of seats to ensure that any young person can access a format cycle and, plus, do it in those studies he wants to realize. We cannot thus condition the future of the person of our country. Because – we were talking about the reason we presented this morning about vocational training – data shows that vocational training studies are highly demanded by the economic and productive sectors. Durum taxes are much better between young people with a format cycle, and that is why it is necessary to empower them and devote the necessary efforts to them. In the last place, about the proposals in the field of occupation, we know, talking about youth occupation on many occasions is talking about hard work and precariousness. We need to address the differences between youth tourism taxes and that of the rest of the population, and that they and young people stop being always paying the worst consequences of economic crises. For this reason, we propose the elaboration of a plan of action against youth tourism that will encourage the insertion of young people and young people in the labour market and implement the measures to guarantee their stability and decent working conditions, a job that we have already advanced thanks to the reform of the labour market and the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. We have also made proposals to improve young entrepreneurs. We don't just need to improve funding, which also, but we need more follow-up and new training lines, with the aim of avoiding the divide and thus guaranteeing success in new projects that are not in our country. I gave it to the principle of my intervention: nine years later we will be back here to address the problems of our country's youth. We have here today a new occasion to get Catalonia back to being a country of opportunity, to be a referent, to be again, as a campaign made many years ago by the Young Socialist..., because Catalonia returned to being a country for young people. Because the young people of Catalonia fight hard every day to meet their goals, their challenges, and just hope they don't feel disappointed in their government. And it's that our young man is not only worth a better future, but also deserves a better present. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.160.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.161.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, President, Counsellor. And also to welcome the young people who are accompanying us today in this debate, and especially also Irene Pardo, the President of the New Generations of the People's Party, with whom we have been working these days on these proposals that we are presenting today in this monographic debate on youth, which we have articulated in four large blocs. The first block is on emancipation and quality of life; the second, on education; the third, on access or problems of access to the world of work that young people have, and, finally, also one dedicated to taxation, which is wasting the opportunities of the youngest in Catalonia. Well, we said yesterday: emancipation continues to fall among young Catalans from sixteen to twenty-nine years old. A report by the Catalan Youth Observatory of November 2021 indicates that only 15.5_per_cent is independent. It is half of the young people who were independent in 2007. There has, of course, been a significant change. Emancipation, above all, began to decline with the 2008 crisis, but it had not been less than twenty per cent until 2020 and, as I said, this trend continues to decline. In addition, 11.6_percent of young people are in a situation of inactivity, i.e. neither work nor study. Yesterday we said that young people, over the last decade, have had to face numerous crises. It started with that crisis, as I said, in 2008. Then they have also experienced the separatist process, begun in 2012; the pandemic of 2020, and now we are also going through a situation of inflation totally triggered, as a result, among many other things, also of this war that we are living between Russia and Ukraine. Well, of these four plagues we named, the young people had only one in their hands, which was precisely to end the process. And so it is, because the great majority of young people are already aware of the great lie, of the great scam involved in the process, which is that way that you have found to live and, above all, to divide Catalans in order to have to avoid accountability to the Government. Look, the young people they want are opportunities. And opportunities mean good governance, low taxes and the European Union, which is just the opposite of what this government means. On housing, we see how the Government has adopted, without any problem, the anti-system stance of the CUP and the occupation mafias. You prefer to protect the Okupas before helping young people with a housing market that guarantees an offer available to everyone. The Generalitat punishes the owners and thus also favours legal uncertainty, which, of course, is a major obstacle to the emancipation of young people. We, from the People's Party, propose in this debate the implementation of a programme of access to the first housing for young people under the age of thirty-five through the public housing park, which must, of course, increase, and that is another point that we also have in these proposals. We also call for the promotion of rental aid and the promotion of access to soft loans so that they can start this emancipation. These measures, which we have put into practice in the first of the proposals, are also complemented by the taxation block, because young people are also being affected by the generalitat's fiscal hell over housing, about donations... And yes, young people are the ones who pay the most taxes throughout Spain, like the rest of the Catalans, because this Government has decided this and this Parliament has also decided this: the autonomous community that pays the most taxes and higher taxes. I said yesterday: the two major barriers to the emancipation of young people are the price of rents and the lack of work. And the proposals offered by the Generalitat go against all this: housing policies that restrict supply and high taxes and barriers that prevent economic recovery. The Government of the Generalitat's response to the pandemic was the most uneconomic in Spain, the one that most damaged recruitment and the one that ruined companies and family projects. And, president, he tells me not with his head, but the data is there. Catalonia remains for the fifth consecutive year – fifth – the autonomous community that loses the most companies, which we continue to be leaders in flight from companies. And let me tell you that obviously your misgovernment, your mismanagement, your bad policies and your ongoing threats are totally related to this fact. Look, a Catalonia without companies is a Catalonia without a future for young people. And our young people, many, have to go outside and look for those opportunities that they don't find here. We also make a proposal, precisely, to recover that talent that has gone to us, so that they have options, so that they want to come here to work and to undertake. We also propose the creation of lines of aid to facilitate the return to rural environments, so that they can start or re-start work in the fields of agriculture, livestock, fisheries, agrotourism, rural tourism, etc.. I believe that here during these two days we have constantly repeated that young people are the future – I share it, though I also think they are the present – but in order for them to be truly, young people, the future, we have to unite efforts and offer them the widest range of opportunities. Look, the fight against youth unemployment must be a priority, because there is no greater inequality than that caused by unemployment. And, as I told you, the data shows that this is the worst autonomous government in Spain. Look, leaders in tax charges, leaders in agencies and public offices, leaders in bureaucratic barriers, leaders in barracks in schools, leaders also on waiting lists in hospitals – came out the other day; we are the third-party worst waiting lists we have on surgical issues – and leaders also in mismanagement. Because you're leaders in debt. The debt of the different nationalist governments of Convergence, of Esquerra, also of the PSC with the tripartite has broken the pact between generations. So what we cannot do is that our young people carry this slab that you have imposed on them. We also propose more deductions for rent in the IRPF's autonomous segment, also deductions in the IRPF for those who access a purchase house, so that they can deduct the interest of the mortgage. We also propose a reduction of the ninety_y_nine_per_cent in the donation tax for those properties that are going to assume a first habitual housing for young people. Also reduce the tax on heritage transmissions and legal acts documented also in this first home. And finally, I have very little time left, but we also have proposals that talk about education, quality education and education where you leave sectarianism out. Yesterday I had the opportunity to tell Mrs Geis: we want Catalan universities that are able to attract talent, that are internationally referenced and not that they are news to see how, for example, radicals destroy day after day the tents of the young people of S'Ha Afinet! or what the counselor calls espionage and reporting to teachers. That is not good for the prestige of our universities and, therefore, we too have proposals in that regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.162.0	Then, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.163.0	Thank you very much, President. President, deputies, good afternoon to all. Yesterday we had the opportunity to present a general analysis of the situation of youth in our region. We have been able to analyse how the problems related to job insecurity, the price of housing, the abandonment of vocational training and education, as well as the indoctrination of the Generality, have led to a lack of prospects for the future that prevent family training and emancipation. And they are direct causes of the deterioration of the mental health of young people. But, as works are love and not good reasons, since VOX today we have the opportunity to present a battery of proposals that represent a real alternative to everything here present. An alternative that, far from trying to intoxicate our young people with ideology or give them the fish directly, offers them a fishing rod and opportunities so that they can work their own future with hope and illusion. An alternative based on the four axes of action: employment, housing, education and mental health. First of all, the Government of the Generality needs to focus once and for all on the problem of the youth labour market. We need to tackle the main fronts in the area of youth work: job insecurity, unemployment, retention and attraction of youth talent, the mismatch between supply and demand, territorial inequality and the lack of incentives for young entrepreneurs. For this reason, we propose to design a specific plan for the repatriation of youth talent to encourage the return home of young people who have had to go abroad and attract young professionals and entrepreneurs to our home. We want to encourage entrepreneurship through tax deductions for those young people who are first discharged from the census of self-employed, entrepreneurs, professionals and retainers. In addition, we propose to promote funding lines and loans to young entrepreneurs in our region. With regard to active employment policies in rural Catalonia, we believe that it is essential to strengthen the Odisseu programme, by extending coverage to young people who come from vocational training and not just those who have attended university studies. The Government of the Generality must also redouble its efforts to tackle the issue of generational relief also in the rural world, in agriculture, in livestock and in fisheries. Ladies and gentlemen, the best way to combat job insecurity is through policies aimed at improving the productivity of businesses and incentives to increase indefinite recruitment. For this reason, we propose to subsidize part of the wage of the indefinite contract of a young professional who has just been a fellow of a company and who cannot currently be hired for an excess of regulation and all kinds of obstacles. Look, without a decent and quality job, it is very difficult for a young person to have access to the home, either by renting or even more complicated if it is in the case of ownership. In this regard, we present six very specific measures to guarantee housing between this sector of society. Among other things, we believe that the Generality should increase efforts to promote social housing among the young people of Catalonia, to enable credit guarantees and funding lines, so that access to the first home is encouraged. Moreover, due to a question of social justice and scarcity of resources, we believe it is essential to establish the principle of national priority, the family perspective and territorial equity in the construction and award of the social housing park in Catalonia. On the other hand, with regard to education, we consider it a priority to promote dual VET, to significantly reduce university fees, to introduce the school cheque, to promote a new plan to tackle school failure as a matter of urgency, and to put an end to indoctrination in classrooms, in vocational training and also in public universities. In short, the aim is to guarantee educational freedom in order to achieve excellent vocational, school and university education. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have put forward a series of measures aimed at combating the growing mental health problems among young people. Because the mental health of our young people is constantly deteriorating. Policies to address this issue should focus on strengthening prevention, mitigating factors associated with disorders and mental illness and improving their treatment. Among other issues, the Generalidad de Cataluña should strengthen anti-bullying and labour-mobbing plans, expand anti-drug and anti-addiction training plans, such as the growing ludopathy among the younger population, and increase specialized medical recruitment. Finally, it does not give us much more time to delve into the measures we have put forward, but we can make something clear. In this Parliament there are only two options for the future for young people: the usual one, or a patriotic and social alternative that offers opportunities, work, family and future, and that alternative is called VOX. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.164.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.165.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, President, Members, Members... There is an obvious conclusion to all the proposals for a resolution, and this is not a ple on youth policies, on how a new generation poses us reptes, new ways of hearing life, of relating between them, etcetera, but it is a ple on which it is evident that young women have a political problem with society today. What are we talking about today when we talk about young people? We talk about housing, education, work, access to public services..., a whole generation that has been refused to build a life project. Often things like there's a generation that's got a lot of bad luck; he got to live the crisis of 2008, then he got to live the pandemic, now he got to live the war of Ukraine. But, in fact, the majority of points that we carry today most parliamentary groups of this House could have carried them perfectly before the pandemic, in years of growth, where it was already obvious that there was a political problem for a whole generation. There is a generation that has not seen a permanent crisis, but an imposed precariousness as a response to a crisis that they did not generate and that is paid for, in a society where inequality and dispossession have imposed themselves as a political project. A generation that has not had the right to start its life project before the neoliberal turn of our societies. And a generation that did not see in crisis, but saw in the neoliberal response to the crisis, in the permanent devaluation of labor conditions, in the deregulation of the housing market, in the loss of public services and privatization and in the private management of these, and in a growing inequality, that it saw today in a society where the richest deu_per_cent concentrates more than half of the wealth of the country, and in a country that is doing like at least a decade that the institutions have abandoned any political project in defense of equality, that they are no longer unable to continue promising that this is a bache and that the future already sees better, but that they are already unable to imagine a better future than this present of crisis and precariousness. One day social cohesion is normal and we don't have to invent new anglicisms every generation to adapt, to explain how the border of precariousness is advancing generationally. And, therefore, today we have a challenge, where the old challenges, that of rebuilding equality in our home, come together with the new challenges, that of building a different society where we can live in common, that of advancing in equality and, therefore, moving forward before those who want a society divided in two, and that of the need to plan a society economically where we understand all, where we live in common and where we can plan our future together. We have proposed four axes of work to continue the reconstruction of this generational cohesion, of this equality between generations in our country. The first, which has to do with the right to emancipation: the full inclusion of young people in the guaranteed income of citizenship and, therefore, in access to the minimum material conditions of existence in our country; the updating of the IRSC, which has not been updated for 12 years and which now makes people living under the shadow of the poor have no access to public services; an ambitious employment plan, where, above all, public administrations are committed not to continuing to promote precarious work for young people in our country, and to ensure access to public mobility, renewable energies and also to be part of the construction of these new economic and social sectors that will be central in our country. In second place, in habitating matter. We've seen some resolution proposals that go in the line of rebuilding how we can build a real estate cylinder again, ensuring that young people have access to the cent_per_cent of the mortgage, that they didn't miss the pee entrance to be able to point to the mortgage cart. And, before that, what we propose is to rebuild the right to public housing from public policies; to combat deregulation of the lloger market, which works for those who have the most in our country, and to combat deregulation in the tourism sector and other uses that make housing a speculative asset. And be brave in the matter of reversal. Calen valiant investments and mobilize ingenious resources to start building a public housing park that is meant to ensure access to housing in our country. The third issue we've worked on is mental health. We already had a monographic ple, but a few years ago the youth survey came out, the major one that took place at the conjunction of the State, and two young people, according to the survey, proposed to increase public coverage to guarantee the psychological care of quality. We know that the mental health crisis is a crisis that we are patenting as a society and that is growing among the nine generations. And, therefore, we believe that the answer must also be an ambitious answer. A free psychological support service for young people that is available within the territory is now more necessary than ever. And we also need to build prevention spaces for schools and society as a whole, where emotional education tools are offered, and where disruptions and addictions from our own youth are prevented. Cal, in short, fully includes free psychological assistance as a public service in our society. And, lastly, access to culture as a fundamental right for our young people, extending the age of the Stage 25 to the twenty-nine years, creating good cultures that guarantee our young people's access to culture and guaranteeing a right that is even more important than access to culture, that is, the power to participate in the creation of culture and the creation of alternate Western spaces to our societies. In short, we in this House of Youth present motions for a resolution which, in essence, is to recover and rebuild policies of equality that stop the youth of the welfare society. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.166.0	Next, the name of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.167.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, deputies, deputies... And, above all, a greeting to the National Youth Council and all the youth organisations that accompany us today. And begin with a thank you to the national council, to all entities, associations, especially to the Young Republic, to the Youth Commission, to the proposing groups and for us, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, in particular to the Pau, the Alba, the Juli and the Oriol and Kenya and the Sea for all the work and teamwork that we have done for the duration of this Plenary. On the work that we have had to finish, a reflection already related precisely to the coordination that we have had some parliamentary groups with the National Youth Council. We've been working, we've held meetings, a good dynamic of work to get this Ple pulled forward. And with some groups it has been easier to talk, reach agreements and, ultimately, a greater predisposition to make it possible for proposals for young people to be made precisely today. In fact, this was the initial line: making proposals that could be materialized, proposals that were tangible, transformative, and not political poses with red lines. On the Ple – yesterday we have already expressed it and today we want to reiterate it – the need to celebrate it, to celebrate this monographic Ple, the need to put young people on the political agenda, to deal with youth policies and that these policies were precisely defined and written for young people. Because, as we always do, they're not just futures, but they're also present. And already talking about our proposals, which we have made from the Republican Left, we have wanted to make realistic proposals. Therefore, it is already advanced that we will not approve or vote in favour of everything that we cannot do, but that we will vote in favour of what we can do and that we are here precisely to transform. I'll highlight four of them here today. The first is the vote at the age of seven. If young people between the ages of seven and seven have sufficient capacity to work, pay taxes and emancipate, we must be equally able and able to vote. If they have rights, they must also have rights. And at this point it is necessary to point out that the Congress of Deputies would have the majorities necessary for this reform to take place, whenever the PSOE continued on the line it expressed a few years ago. Therefore, here we place the companies and companies of the PSC because I have transferred to their Madrid companies and can make precisely this vote possible at the age of seven. Another area we want to highlight is the work, and we are not enough, to be precarious, to not pay for our practices, to start jobs that is not that we do not cover the minimum interprofessional wage, is that of the moon. And this is a reality, a reality that we need to address and eradicate. No young person – and now we have the public here – will be surprised if I tell him that my first job as a lawyer with twenty-three years paid me two hundred euros a month. I mean, it's a whole day's worth it. And that's why in my world, the world of law, we call bypass, every profession has a homologous word, but the meaning is always the same: precariousness. We also want the territorial balance and the region in which we fail to determine your chances of finding work. Emancipation and habitating is another great block in which we have also presented these proposals. And that's what we're talking about before, what we're covering for, when and how we can emancipate ourselves. Young people are forced to live at the parents' house, as they don't have a son that allows them to be independent. Either you have to share a piss or a pair, and it's already a big sum of tickets. But what about young people who want to emancipate and live alone? So callen housing policies for young people, and it's urgent. And the last great area we want to highlight today is equality and non-discrimination. We need a hate prevention and discrimination protocol. We want to avoid and we need to avoid male, LGBTI-phobic, racist and any other types of violence. And we could make a list, and we wouldn't end up, of all the discrimination that young people suffer from being young. But I'll give you an example: the night oci. Or they discriminate against you for your kind, for your race, for your sexual orientation or for the stuff you wear. And how many times have the ladies of this hemicle found us that we can go to a nightclub and go in for free? And if that happens, if we can get in for free, it's because we're exactly the product. And, finally, as Pau Morales and his friend said yesterday, we want to decide and do it with your own eyes. We're young, we're old enough to be invisible, and in this specific plenary we've said it again: up to precariousness, up to masculinity and up to discrimination. We're here to do youth politics. We want youth policies in the center, to transform the country, and we do and we do it with the hands of young people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.168.0	I, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs Jeannine Abella. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So I had laid the Jeannine. Congresswoman Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.169.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members, Members, will advise and, obviously, to the guests who today are also with us, at this beginning of the monogram that we brought to term yesterday, and today with these conclusions and approval. I believe that the effort of all makes it one day to celebrate, to celebrate a victory, a victory for the young, recovering after..., nine years later a monogram ple which was more than clear and obvious about the demand to which it led and to put concrete measures and concrete proposals on the emancipation of the young. From Juntas per Catalunya we said it yesterday, and so we want to express it also today; this plenary would not be possible without three basic and essential aspects: firstly, it is consensus; secondly, it is participation, and, thirdly, it is realism. The consensus and participation with the National Youth Council of Catalonia, but also with the parliamentary groups with whom we have been able to work the last few days. And realism, which is no less important, because we are aware, all folded, of the economic limitations, but we are more than together for Catalonia, with this aspiration to be a state, but that it still does not have the tools or mechanisms to allocate all the resources it would want if we were free. Therefore, after a previous work, which I consider to have been intense, as we say, with the CNJC, but also with many youth political organizations and with the young people mobilized, and with these interventions that were brought to an end yesterday, we were able to agree much of this initial reflection of the radiography that we did today of the young people, but also of the actions to be able to respond to it, as I say: today many of these proposals will be approved. From Junta to Catalunya we presented a total of eighty, and we hope that many more will follow that they have joined and that they may be out. Open as always to the dialogue with the rest of the political formations, we will give support and refrain from many of them for the current mechanisms for approving the proposals for resolution, and leaving, therefore, also for the later debate and for the later work some actions that are known and that we must continue to work all, guaranteeing this way the society of knowledge, generator of occupation, a decent and quality occupation, that can undertake these life projects so necessary for young people and that it ends with the misnamed already youth precariousness. We are therefore going out to the demands of the young man, the associates, the mobilized young man, but also the non-mobilized and not associated, to which we often do not arrive, and we have to do it from the institutions. We also have to do this from this Parliament, approaching and resuming, so this active participation and active listening in the making of decisions, because politics is also trust, it is close, it is solutions and it is served the country on the basis of the territory. We are therefore committed to a battery of proposals which I would very much like to mention, such as this new law on young people's policies; to start studies to update the minimum reference wage and to advance for these 1,400, 1,500_euros in the countries we want to look at, disregarding the work and training practices and their remuneration, as has been commented upon, setting aside the campaign of Precancies, in other words; ensuring the very least of the twenty-five_per_cent of our new public construction housing for young people, very clear and very essential to address this public housing park, which must also be increased and brought closer to us, with only the young people of our country, who are very clear and very essential to tackle this public housing park, but who, in fact, have the very least of the twenty-five_per_cent of our new public social society building, as well as the young people of our country, but who, together with our own country, are working together with us, but also with the young people of our country, but also with our country, but also with the young people, who are working in this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, and this country, this is also our country, this country, and this country, this country, this country, this country, this is our country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, and this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this is Finishing, also, the plan of shock against youth, which must arrive at these 25,000 young people; driving the use of català among young people, with initiatives as clear as the Scene 25 up to the 30 years; encouraging the rearrangement, this return of people to the rural world, and betting, among many other areas, also for training, increasing thirty-four per cent of places of professional training, with this time of deploying dual professional training to forty per cent. And, obviously, also in the matter of universities, with this drop in public prices announced and what we worked through the new law of universities to be a reality and establishing a maximum price of 18,46_euros the credit. But it is also important that we now have other struggles that we have incorporated into these motions for resolutions. There can be no other way than to claim and execute once and for all the transfer of the competencies that belong to the Generality, such as university scholarships and non-universities, that cause this delay or this acquaintance to be claimed by many young people, such as the transfer of the rollers. And lastly, between a long etcetera, before the democratic emergence and of rights and fundamental freedoms, with a state against progress, the welfare of many citizens, from Juntes per Catalunya we also urge the Spanish Government to repeal the law once and for all, as well as the digital decree, which has limited and limited the right of many Catalans and Catalans, also young. You therefore propose, in a positive light, that we hope that it will take place in the framework of this plenary, in this monographic plenary, but that, in addition, they will give an answer and that they will continue to bet on this investment in youth policies, that they will do so with a cross-cutting vision, that they will do so with a vision that can be carried out by the Government of the Generality and, obviously, with a presumption that they also have and that they will also adopt such a necessary youth perspective. And, finally, President, I would like to stress, therefore, how we define today the foundations of what must be the beginning of a parliamentary debate that must continue in this legislature, helping to always improve the emancipation of the young people of our country, in order to change their future, obviously, but to start changing their present. And to guarantee, obviously, this prosperity, this freedom, that it's more than urgent. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.170.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.171.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members and members of the youth organisations that accompany us this late... Well, yesterday we did a bit of a review of the diagnosis that has been made by our parliamentary group, from the organisations of the independence left that we represent, we understand that they are the ones to address mainly when we talk about youth policies. We noted that our analysis and our proposals were designed to address the question of language, the question of youth emancipation, the industrial and tourist model and, obviously, repression. Our motions for resolutions, therefore, are in this sense. First, in the question of language, guaranteeing the linguistic rights of deaf people and incorporating the Catalan sign language into all the tools and all the resources that are deployed from the Government of the Generality in matters of culture, education, access to the oci, etc.; promoting and creating the cultural platform of the Catalan Countries, promoting the cultural creation of the Catalan language and the oci to all cultural production; establishing spaces for dialogue, reciprocity in broadcasts in the Catalan language of communication; ensuring that audiovisual platforms and virtual educational resources that serve the public education system are, effectively, always available in Catalan language and, obviously, a series of measures to address linguistic immersion, including the teaching of new classes, including the teaching of personal education. With regard to emancipation, which is also an issue that other parliamentary groups have presented – so we also understand that they are political and that it is a matter of concern to different political areas – we have focused on housing. We are talking about expropriations around Law 1/2022; that the deu_percent of the itineraries of these newly built and exploited habitats, the deu_percent of the habitats that are embedded in the public housing bag are to reinforce the itineraries of emancipation of young people and young extutes, that come from the custody of the Generalitat de Catalunya; a concretion and timing of this twenty-five_percent that between the council has been announced during this legislature that it is to make offer habitat for young people; the exemption from the bail and the assumption of the advance of the entrance to a logist on behalf of the Generalitat; the rehabilitation of the housing offer for young people; the exemption from the bail and the assumption of a visa; the guarantee of a residence permit; and the guarantee of a residence permit. Following this reformulation of the industrial and tourism model, we have presented a series of measures to deal with what we understand as a destruction of the present, which, as we say today, boosts the possibilities of the future, with a derogation from the law of the APEUs, the modification of the law of tourism, the creation of banks of land for those young people living in the countryside and tend to dedicate themselves to it; ensuring the implementation of optical fiber to the whole territory for whom he does not want to dedicate himself to the economy of agriculture and agriculture, they understand that the territory is not, as Mrs Vinyets said yesterday, the path of cities; questions in food sovereignty; the deployment of renewable energies to agriculture, and, of course, to the private sector, not to the public. And, obviously, we also need to talk about repression, because one of the questions that has concerned all parliamentary groups, according to the interventions that we saw during yesterday's day, is participation, non-political participation, non-inquiry that young people feel on the part of institutional political activity and the political significance of life and decisions that affect them. Therefore, in this sense we have presented a series of measures. The first, in order to materialize that this concern is real and manifest, withdraw the accusations of the Government of Catalonia to all the young man who has been retaliated for having manifested himself and signified in the defense of basic rights such as housing, such as the defense of the sovereignty of this country. Second, we're asking for a public audit of the squadron's information division. And at this point I would like to extend a little more, because of this plenary we have many conversations around espionage, around information services, around which is the legitimacy that information services have to enter the privacy of political activists. And we can't ask the State for anything we don't want to check out at our house. Therefore, the public audience that is derived from the cases of false identity, of supplantation of the identity that Mossos d'Esquadra was investigating to young people of the independence left..., we ask, therefore, that also apply an investigation and an opening to ensure transparency in these processes. We find that it is, at least, possible to be coherent and that the same one we are asking of the State can apply to our house without any kind of transparency. For the rest of the measures, in repression we ask, effectively, to eliminate the systems of indiscriminate vigilance; to create an observer of human rights; obviously, to eliminate – and I finish, President – the Proderae program, for questions that we then extended to explain; to eliminate profilings by ethnic profile, and to work to eliminate the penalty of access to the passive vote if we want a guarantee of democratic salvation for the present and future of the young people of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-12-3003.172.0	After the debate, we shall begin the vote on the motions for resolutions. It is the separate vote of the motions for resolutions according to the order of entry into the register, in accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure and as published in the Chamber's file. We shall begin, first of all, with the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted with 58 votes in favour, 8 against and 63 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted with 13 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 53 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This proposal was not accepted with 50 votes in favour, 71 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we are voting on Motion for a resolution No. 4. The vote begins. And this proposal has been accepted with 118 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We will then vote on the motions for resolutions put forward by the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 1 begins. This proposal was not accepted with 31 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 24 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted with 47 votes in favour, 11 against and 71 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted with 55 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Group. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted by 45 votes to 71, with 13 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was also accepted with 45 votes in favour, 71 against and 13 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This proposal was also adopted with 50 votes in favour, 70 against and 8 abstentions. I, finally, vote on Proposal No 4. The vote begins. This proposal was also adopted with 3 votes in favour, 110 votes against and 16 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Let's vote on proposal number one. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted with 11 votes in favour, 110 votes against and 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on Proposal No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was not accepted with 12 votes in favour, 109 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] There was a transfuguism exercise. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. This proposal was also adopted with 19 votes in favour and 110 votes against. And finally, we are voting on Motion for a resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This proposal was also accepted with 14 votes in favour, 109 against and 5 abstentions. Let us now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of the European Parliament. We shall begin by voting on motion for resolution No. 1. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted with 47 votes in favour, 74 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This proposal was not accepted with 16 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 94 abstentions. Let us now vote on Proposal No. 3. The vote begins. This proposal was accepted with 55 votes in favour and 74 abstentions. I, finally, vote on Proposal No 4. The vote begins. This proposal was accepted with 110 votes in favour and 19 votes against. We now vote on the motions for resolutions submitted jointly for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. We are voting for Resolution No. 1, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. It was adopted with 74 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 36 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted with 102 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This proposal was accepted with 109 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. And we are voting now on motion for resolution No. 4. The vote begins. This proposal was accepted with 77 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 36 abstentions. We now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted with 79 votes in favour and 50 votes against. Next, we will vote on the motions for resolutions put forward by the Socialists and Unity Groups for Progress, the Republican Left, Junts for Catalonia, the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning and the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. We shall begin by voting on Proposal No. 1. The vote begins. This proposal was adopted with 110 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting number two now. The vote begins. This proposal was approved with 118 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This proposal was approved with 118 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We are voting now on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. The vote begins. This proposal was accepted with 63 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 16 abstentions. And, finally, we are voting now on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. We shall begin by voting on Proposal No. 1. This proposal was not adopted with 10 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 69 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. This proposal was not adopted with 16 votes in favour and 113 votes against. We're voting number three now. The vote begins. This proposal was also adopted with 8 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we are voting on Motion for a resolution No. 4. The vote begins. And this proposal was not approved with 16 votes in favour and 113 votes against. The session's up. Thank you very much.
