ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session with the oral questions... [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Ask the Government about the reason for not accompanying or protecting families, students and teachers in the current exceptional situation]] [[310-00181/13]] We begin with questions to the government to answer orally in the plenary, about the reason for which they do not accompany and protect families, students and teachers in the exceptional situation. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Carles Gallego, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Silence, please, the honourable Member asks the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.2.0	Well, good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. Today, the schools and institutes of Catalonia are opening doors thanks to the commitment of families and the great professionalism of the teaching staff. Sense of doubt, I can congratulate them and agrate the effort. But there's not enough. To do the right to the education of infants we need open, safe and healthy schools. And now the education staff is tired, the schools are on the edge. Therefore, counselor, we want to ask you why the Department of Education does not accompany and protects enough families, students, teachers and staff educated in this exceptional situation that see schools and institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.3.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.4.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Deputy Gallego. You said that, didn't you? We live in difficult and complex times, that's right. We're in front of a vertiginous growth of infection, given that we're in an on-the-shelf. And, therefore, the virus, as it is present in society, is how it behaves in our schools. And essential services, essential services are strained, and education is also strained. We have to make it clear – and we have to say – that we cannot have the same school as you do not have a covid. And, therefore, what the educational centers are doing is reorganizing. They are rearranged to do things in another way, as they have to do, so they have to do it in another way. And, therefore, we give thanks, we give thanks to the health care and the management team, to the teachers, to the workers of the Department of Education, to the families and to the students to do the job as best as possible; to do the job giving the best of themselves in complicated and difficult times. You said: "At the side of families, at the side of the student, and at the side of the teacher; this is what we are doing from the Department of Education at these times. We're applying protocols, protocols that are sanitary, they're not pedagogical protocols. And, therefore, we are at the side of families in order to ensure this presence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.5.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.6.0	Thank you, Counselor. He didn't convince me, and I don't think he convinced the educated staff or the families. The centers are on the edge. You would do well to read the questions that the two most representative unions of the conjunction of education in Catalonia, Workers' Commissions and UGT, have carried out, which have detected what are the problems of teaching, the problem of educational centers. And in the problems are the solutions: clarity, protection and resources. We need clear, simple, stable standards and protocols – they can't change every day – we need free masks in the centers for all the educated staff; also for the school teachers. We need the classrooms with mechanical ventilation; the centers before 2007 must open the windows and we need to cool the kids. We need flexible management of the substitutions, which arrive the substitutes to the centers; yesterday the sixty-five_per_cent of substitutes were not covered. We need the Equal Labour Health Commission to meet every day to assess the situation and look for solutions. We need to get the school nurse program out of the way to the schools. We need to do a lot of things. We need, sense of doubt, clarity in the protocols, we need protection from people and we need resources. There are resources, there are contingencies in the assumptions to apply them in exceptional situations, and it is an exceptional situation and we cannot leave either the families or the educated staff alone before this situation. We want open schools, but we want them open, safe and healthy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.7.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.8.0	Mr Gallego, as clear as possible: at the expense of our educational centres. What we're doing is substituting for all the downloads, what we're doing is substituting. In what we carry from year we have made 11,743 substitutions, real, effective, to our classrooms. We've covered all the short-lived bass, we've made appointments every day, and what we do is we cover in the educational centers all these bass. We... if there's any bass that doesn't come up the next day, it's because we make the nomination and the person in the bag doesn't have to accept that bass. The data you're giving me isn't real. They don't respond to what's going on at the educational center. We're covering 11,743 bass, I repeat it. Children are attached to teachers and young people are attached to teachers. Plus, we've made a double layer of security, with TARs, 240,000 TARs, despite the difficulties, in 15 days. And what we do most important to families is guarantee this presence. The number-u_per_cent of the student went to class the day with higher, more positive infections; the number-four_per_per_cent of the teacher. School has to be done from school, with academic and emotional support more than ever. For what he does to masks, we give an answer to what the protocols say. All educational centres have the masks they must have – all educational centres. And of the ventilation protocols, what we do is give answers to what the experts say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.9.0	Time's up, counselor. Thank you. [[Ask the government if it has the intention to fight corruption]] [[310-00183/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on whether it had the intention to combat corruption. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.10.0	Counselor, do you intend to fight corruption in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.11.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.12.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congressman, this government has zero tolerance for corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.13.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.14.0	Consellera, corruption consists of abuse of power for its own benefit. And in this, it must be recognized that separatists are the champions. They have the gold medal. Unfortunately for the citizens, Catalonia is the region with the most corruption in Spain, according to a European report. We have suffered in Catalonia years of pujolist, of illegal financing, and of three_per_cent. And now, we still have widespread corruption. Because it is institutional corruption to urge Parliament to defend a criminal like Juvillà. And it is institutional corruption to discriminate against the first national force in this chamber, as is VOX. And it is institutional corruption to disobey laws and sentences, believing it is above ordinary citizens, as in the case of the last language sentence. And it is political corruption to fry citizens with taxes, then to waste everyone's money on ideological delusions and chiringuitos. And it is political corruption to be the region with the most taxes, to allocate more public money to keep six former presidents and even non-working officials with drivers, offices and salaries. And it is political corruption to subsidize private media, in exchange for pre-bends, silences and other considerations. And it is corruption to purge the dome of the Mosses, when they are investigating cases of separatist corruption. And it's corruption that the Firemen's dome makes apprentices of convergents, or Junts, and covers two-per-cent of their bills. It is, therefore, that we demand that they fight corruption, that they do not steal or divide any more and, of course, that they devote themselves to managing what remains of Catalonia, rather than continuing to plunder it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.15.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.16.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, the Catalan government has..., demonstrated and has a firm commitment to anti-corruption. We do it when we show up, when I'm quiet, explaining what I'm talking about. This week, the same advisor Elena attended four hours. I think four hours ago he explained a lot of details that obviously I can't explain in two minutes. Committing against corruption to the compliment of the law of transparency and, therefore, whenever it comes to parliamentary groups, we distribute all the information you require from you. Compromise against corruption, when we develop the code of conduct of senior officials and direct staff. Since 2016 it's our doing; there we've been regulating what exemplary behavior the public servers and servers would have to have. Also maximum transparency and traceability in public decision making. As you know, the Presidency has the skills of good governance, linked to public servers and servers, in the Secretary of Administration and Public Service. And in this sense, at the end of 2021, we approved the code of the public service of Catalonia, made by experts of the same Generality, but also external experts, led by Mr. Angel Castineira, professor of ethics with a recognized prestige in this area. And, in this sense, we promote values, principles in the functions of public servers, to contribute to democratic quality, to the recovery of trust. I'll be right there. We will, in fact, renew the Committee on Public Ethics, with independent persons at its own Generality, to give answers to consultations, to be able to formulate complaints or alerts with ethical claims, as the European Directive says. Therefore, please, Mr. Member and his group, stop misappropriating servers and public servers; stop embolizing the exchange with anti-policy, because for more times than repeated lies will not be converted into truth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.17.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the continuity of batsillerat at the Institut 9 de Santa Coloma de Gramenet. [[Question to the Government about the continuity of batsillerat at the Institute 9, Santa Coloma de Gramenet (Barcelona)]] [[310-00172/13]] The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno, from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor González-Cambray, transferred to him the negit of many families of Santa Coloma de Gramenet and also of the municipal government, of a very concrete theme that belongs to you. The Instituto de Santa Coloma de Gramenet, better known as the Instituto 9, launched the 2018-2019 course, with prefabricated modules, installed in a building for the Assembly of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. Even being a center that in its creation it was said that it would have ESO and batting lines, its department, then said that in those centers built with prefabricated modules would not open batting lines. This, therefore, made the educational community manifest, until today, claiming that their children can study battling in this center the coming course. I claim the educational community, I claim the ple, the ple de l'Ajuntament de Santa Coloma de Gramenet. He claims it, too, the Municipal School Council. And now our parliamentary group is also insisting on it. Counselor, we need your commitment so that the Institute 9 of Santa Coloma can have battling in the coming course. And we need it with a certain speed, because the enrollment terms will run out very soon and, therefore, we need speed on this bet. We are aware that in the last few days you have kept talking to the Mayor of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Mrs. Núria Parlon, and that the result of these conversations, therefore, is a good will on your part, and on the part of your department, because that's what it is. But counselor, I demand one more step. I demand a compromise to do what is already done in other cities in Catalonia. Other centres with prefabricated modules, which are forming batting lines. In the first city of Santa Coloma de Gramenet there are centers with a single line of batting. In fact, if this Institute 9 of Santa Coloma doesn't have any color, it would be the only center of Santa Coloma without having batxillerat. And I remember, counselor, that it's a very difficult centre. And, therefore, the one we claim, Mr. Counselor, is this compromise. The educational community..., the own Assembly of Santa Coloma de Gramenet has put at its disposal also alternate spaces and even a presuppositional game for small adaptations. The question, therefore, counsel, is very clear and very concrete. Is it compromised, Counselor, that in the coming course of the Institute 9 of Santa Coloma has a line of batting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.19.0	To answer, has the word Mr. González-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.20.0	President... thank you, Congressman. Educational planning decisions are brought to an end to the local planning tables. There he shares..., the Department of Education and the assemblies share the educational planning, the offer for which he makes to the schools, for which he makes to the institutes, for which he does to the ESO and for which he does to the baccalaureate and for which he does to the professional formation. In Santa Coloma these local planning tables have gathered. As you say, I also met with the mayor, where we shared the different educational challenges in the city. And we, after the work done and when it comes to deciding, which is in these planning tables, what we have done..., in the city of Santa Coloma, this educational order and, above all, taking into account the offer of batsillaries and form cycles. Also to take into account that the course is changing the curricula, we change the curriculum to first of all, and this is also very relevant to the time to define this offer. And, therefore, despite the fact that we do not have a solar system available for the Assembly of Santa Coloma, since the Department of Education, what we have decided is to maintain the compromise we have, since the year 2018 and, therefore, the proper course of the Institute 9 of Santa Coloma will have an offer of baccalaureate studies. And we'd like to go further. And we'd like to build the new Institute of Santa Coloma. But this, unfortunately, is not possible because the Assembly has not complied with the compromise to give up a building site since 2018. And, therefore, the moment that the Assembly..., and this happens to us in many cities and in many peoples of the country. We can't start, we can't start a construction of an educational center if we don't have the given solar, and so once we have the given solar, we look for the presuppositional game, we find the presuppositional game, and from there we start the drafting processes of the projects. Therefore, in conclusion, we comply as we always do with the commitment we assumed in the year 2018 and, despite the fact that the assembly did not complete a building site for the construction of the new buildings, taking into account the educational project of the new institute of Santa Coloma, the coming course of this institute will offer the baccalaureate studies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.21.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the Local Government Council. [[Ask the Government about the Local Government Council]] [[310-00173/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Moreta, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.22.0	Thank you, President. The Council of Local Governments shall, as you know, advise the Council of Local Governments on the representation of municipalities and veggieries in various institutions of the Generality, with the aim of defending local interests. Gaudeix also of organic autonomy, functional and presuppositional. Since 2013, there has been no known type of council activity, and in fact it has not been constituted, as foreseen in its regulatory regulation, nor has it therefore been reunited. The last president, Mr. Miquel Buch, finished his term in the 2015 elections. Seven years later, we find ourselves with a call that should have been produced in 2015 and 2019. A few days after Nadal, his department sent a letter calling for the constitutive session of the Council of Local Governments. But that summons was cancelled as hastily as it had been called. It seems that finally the 1st day of February will produce the constitutive session. Look, counselor, the law establishes that accounts are to be approved for this organ, but the recent assumptions of 2022 do not include reference to the Council of Local Governments. Could you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.23.0	To answer the word, Ms. Laura Vilagrà, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.24.0	Yes, thank you, President. MP, well, I've heard myself say many times that this is a municipalist government and so we want to have an honest, direct relationship that wants to recognize the role of local governments, and that is why we will implement this governance, to listen to the voice of the direct local world, to reactivate the Council of Local Governments, the council that, as we said in the appearance, would do so as soon as possible. In spite of this, it was not possible to do so because of a question of covid, as usual, but, in any case, for us, it is a strategic tool, which pretends to be also a tool of territorial balance, because there is all the territorial arc of the Principality, but it also politically weighs the representation of the parties. But, anyway, it's not a party machine. It is a strategic tool, as I said, of territorial vertebracy, that we listen very carefully, with great respect, and that we provide the resources and tools that are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.25.0	To answer the question, Mrs Marta Moreta is a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.26.0	Actually, Counselor, she didn't answer me. But, well, we are of the opinion that it is necessary to separate the unit from the municipalism of the Council of Local Governments. The representation of municipal entities is governed by private law and it is the power of each municipality to organize itself under the principle of local autonomy. That said, there are some doubts, because there are competitions and representation that overlap, from the municipalist entities and the Council of Local Governments. That's why I also wanted to ask you how these two entities coexist, how municipal entities coexist with the Council of Local Governments. Is it possible that your government is planning to fuse municipal entities with this council? And, lastly, how is it that acts so hasty with the constitutive session without having in full the rules of organization, and the functioning of the council is pending since 2010 and is not counted on the relevant assumption? And I'd like you to challenge me about the presupposition, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.27.0	To answer the word has the adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.28.0	Well, as you say, the first session of this Local Government Council took place in 2011. I was there myself, if I may say so personally. Therefore, I know very well the potentialities and where in any case it was silenced, but the reactivation was a firm will of this government. Also the same Parliament, some mayors, asked us to do so and, therefore, it is about building strong and empowered local institutions. In fact, the Presidency usually visits meetings, district councils and, therefore, we want to promote this governance, co-governance, which is obviously done through the Secretariat of Local Governments and the Aran. And, in any case, it's the own council that has to make the rules, that has to develop it. Therefore, in this sense, it must be self-organised, as you said. It's an organ that has autonomy. And, in any case, the municipalist entities are, among them, as members of the full right. Therefore, in this sense they are also capable of finding the box. And, obviously, from the Presidency, we have to provide them with resources. But in the same line, it has to be our own council that requires us to be these tools and what these resources have to be, and we will find them, in the department's framework. Therefore, we want these local governments to be a strong, strategic interlocutor, not just to develop public policies in the local world, which we already do, but to co-decide on all those fears that affect them. Therefore, this 1st of February, which will be this constitution, if all goes well to the Barcelona Assembly, is a new stage of this co-government; we want to give sight to the small, middle, metropolitan, micro-popular municipalities of all political colors, and thus reinforce the role of the institution closest to the citizen. We'll find ourselves here for sure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.29.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the open court cases relating to the contracting of the maintenance service of the mobile park of the Cos de Bombers. [[Ask the Government about the legal cases opened in connection with the contract of the maintenance service of the mobile park of the Cos de Bombers]] [[310-00174/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ramon Espadaler of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.30.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, through various communication media, since some time ago, we have known, therefore, a case of clear corruption in the area of the Bomber Cos. So much so that today we already know for the communication media that there have been eight imputed persons, seven of whom belong to the field of the Department of Interior; five are functioning and two are of political designation, two persons, the current Director of Fire Prevention, Rescue and Bombers, and his predecessor, and another person belonging to the contracting company that would form part of this alleged fraud. The case was known, it was revealed, so to speak, thanks to the good work of a remote from the Department of Interior, in the last legislature, that they called his attention irregular practices, attitude that we learn from this remote. This person put it in the knowledge of the legal services, and they put it in the knowledge of the councillor's cabinet, the secretary general and the councillor, his predecessor, in this case Mr. Samper, just at the end of the term, and this one acted, therefore, from our perspective, correctly opening a reserved investigation, putting it in the knowledge of the Mosses and putting it in the knowledge of the prosecution. That's what it's supposed to be like in that sense, isn't it? It is worth saying that what we know, therefore, through the communication media is that in this fraud, therefore, there are awards, re-agreements. Today, the press is talking about a re-adjudication despite the fact that it was suspended by the Tribunal de Contractes del Sector Públic de Catalunya. Therefore, there is already a persistence. And every time you get some more elements, so, you get more attention, don't you? We, as the parliamentary group, ask you, counselor, that you arrive at foundations, that you arrive at the end. You say, "I'm a refractor, the other day I said, "Before I'm old than corruption. Server, too. And we with the parliamentary group, too. I'm asking you to get to the fund. And, in this sense, you are a person who has no command to make changes– has shown it in other areas–, we ask you what actions you think you will undertake more? He didn't make one very concrete, cancel the contract. Perfect, a good way. Are you going to make changes in this environment? There are seven imputed people. All of them pertaining to the political and the functional spheres of the Department of Interior. If you're going to make these changes, what do you think you're going to do? And if you don't think about making a change, why don't you think about making a change, Counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.31.0	To answer the word, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.32.0	Deputy, the president. Actually, there's a few deeds opened up for some bad practices. In the end, it will be the judgment, it will be the judgment that has to determine who the criminal consequences are if there is nothing like the consequence of these facts. But it is obvious that there have been some bad practices that have been put into knowledge – you said – for the previous team three, four, five days before the end of their mandate and the new team was incorporated on May 26. Naturally, what we have done is make ourselves available and give all the necessary information to the court, all that is required, and therefore put us to the service of investigation as it cannot be otherwise. But now, too, correct this bad practice. A bad practice that stinks, seems to be, a lot of years gone by and that worked. I, therefore, correct it. And we did it from the zero minute, because, actually, we went in on the 26th and the 3rd of June we started the contract resolution procedures. We were throwing in a new bid, which is in progress. In addition, let's make a series of contracts with a faster procedure to avoid the difficulties and economic setbacks that were caused. And, obviously, we have also, moreover, initiated a change in internal procedures which, in part, were the cause of all these circumstances than at these times are judicialized. So, yes, from the initial moment you changed into a function that massed ugly time that worked, that wasn't the right one. In addition, we have begun, too, we have asked the Committee on the Interior for an appearance by the Secretary-General to communicate in detail all the changes that have occurred, all the changes that will be produced. I, therefore, refer you, too, to this appearance. What I guarantee you is that since we've had knowledge of this fact we've acted and acted to reverse the situation and, more importantly, we've acted to give as much information as is necessary in a function that we don't like people. And since we don't like it, we're changing it and reversing it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.33.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on infrastructure. [[Ask the Government about infrastructure]] [[310-00175/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, last week announced that the Generality and, in concrete terms, the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Digital Policies and Formal Territories is part of the Consortium of Besòs. This entry into the Consortium is closely linked to the different policies of your department. For one band, territorial and, for the other, digital infrastructure. For what it does to the planning of the territory, its department has already brought to term other important actions in our country as the Pla urbanistic director of non-sustainable soils, which reviewed the urbanistic forecasts that had obsolete models to adapt them to the new territorial conditions. Now there is this transformation of the Besòs sector, an area that brings together different groupings and that has involved an agreement between all of them and the Generality to culminate in the ordering of this space. Because we know that putting order to the territory is necessary to have a country directed at the urban level, but also to develop strategic productive activities that drive and generate new sectors of economic activity; an economic activity that passes to have a country physically connected, everything, from south to north and west to east, with infrastructures of progress that avoid depopulation and urban inequality and that does competitive and innovative. But also a digitally connected country to create new opportunities for land. That said, today, in this concrete case, is an urban area with a need for transformation to adapt to the new demands. And we can't make it clear that, for all we know, this urban transformation will be driven by the development of digital infrastructures. It may be necessary to specify that in our country the digital sector groups several thousand enterprises and is one of the sectors with the most creation of jobs since it grows in occupation a deu_per_cent every year. And, in concrete terms, the Catalan audiovisual sector concentrates 1,105 companies that charge 6,702_million euros and employ 26,651 people. These figures show that the development of infrastructure drives new activities, new businesses, we talents. And, therefore, it is necessary to focus on everything the government can do. At all events, Vice-President, we want to ask you what the entrance of the government and its department to the Consortium of Besòs will entail and how this urban planning will affect our country's digital infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.35.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Deputy Sales, so, look, what will represent in the first place is a great opportunity to generate quality occupation in our country and, more importantly, in an area that needs it. You said, the most important social policy we can do for our citizens is that people are working. And we don't create work directly, but we can create conditions so that's possible. In this sense, the technology sector today is growing in our country at a rate that does not happen in any other sector. It's one of the great engines of our economy. I, therefore, have, in this area of the coast, the last piece left – great piece – to transform the industrial era and, therefore, to go towards the new economy. It's a great opportunity – plus, it's an iconic area, with the three xemeneias, of the Catalan coast – to bring this area to what this new digital economy has to be; to become a continuation of this area as well as to make it a continuation of what I believe has been a successful project also in Barcelona, which is 22 @ and, therefore, this continued to become a great digital hub of international reference. That's why we work from the government. The first step we will take with entry to the consortium is to approve the PDU, so the urban master plan, to guide this way to this new industry, which is said to be digitization, from this area. And this fact is not a random fact or decision. It's not that, suddenly, we've had a day and decided that we want to bet... we've been working on it for a year. I want to remind you that a year ago, precisely, we started the works from my department to build a digital port of submarine cables. I hope before the summer the first cable can get here. These are, in short, the forecasts we have. We're working so we won't get any more. Submarine transport cables are the norma_per_cent of intercontinental data traffic. Today, we have to move bytes and megabytes to move goods and people; it is very important for us to serve the future and, therefore, we are preparing this whole area of Besòs to be one of the great digital hubs and audiovisual reference not only in Catalonia, but also in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.37.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about tax fraud]] [[310-00176/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on tax fraud. The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.38.0	Thank you, President, and thank you for fighting to defend the rights of all Members of this House. Good morning, Counselor. It is unquestionable the importance of a policy of fighting the tax fraud that is decisive and that is effective. The good functioning of the tax system is essential to maintain the state of welfare, social cohesion and progress of the country. And increasing tax resources, through a better compliment of obligations, is always preferable, always superior, to increasing taxes. But what is the situation that surrounds us? So we have to recap the tax as a percentage of GDP in the Spanish State shows us the need to come up with taxable bases, the need to fight against tax fraud. In fact, the European Commission questions the efficiency of the Spanish Tax Agency for the high level of submerged economy in the Spanish State. And, in fact, we have not seen significant improvements in the supposed more progressive government of history before this situation, which is unacceptable. For its band, the Catalan Tax Agency still manages a small part of the taxes that Catalans pay, but the compromise in the fight against tax fraud is firm. As you know, the experts recommend that the teams be properly sized, so there is a clear negative correlation between the actions that are dedicated to the inspection and the submerged economy of a country. They recommend the segmentation of taxpayers to focus resources and efforts on those areas where there is a greater risk. They recommend applying the tax compliment certificate to companies working with the Public Administration and also the clarity at the time of publication and updating interpretations of tax system resolutions for issues that usually affect both companies and individuals. And the quinta, obviously also, systematically share information between tax agencies, which the Spanish Tax Agency does not do with the ATC for taxpayers residing in our country. An inefficiency that all experts identify and that is incomprehensible. Counselor, at your appearance now set_months ago, which marked the objectives of your department's legislature, you have committed yourself firmly in the fight against tax fraud. And today we would like to ask him about the work lines of the department and also the measures taken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.39.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.40.0	President, deputies, deputies... Mrs Artadi, yes, as I announced, the fight against tax fraud is and will be a top priority of this council. Miri, the proof is that in September we already called for nine seats for tax managers, one hundred and twenty seats for tax managers, and that in October we called for nine seats for tax inspectors. What's the point? Quite simply, to improve the efficiency of tax management in Catalonia and to fight against tax fraud. Let's just give him some data. Miri, in fiscal year 21, from this past year, we will end up with a tax fraud of 338_million_i_mig euros– 338_million_i_mig euros. That's fifty-five percent more than the year 2020. I would like to recall that the assumption of the Catalonia Tax Agency is 85_million euros. This means that the Catalonia Tax Agency returns to the public four_euros– four_euros– for each euro we invest. Sense dubte, an exhibition of the efficiency of the Catalan public sector. How do we interpret these data? It's good news. Sense of doubt is good news in the sense that money will come out that will make new public policies. It's good news because they show that the Catalonian Tax Agency is doing very well its evil work that the State is putting in all the passages that it can and does not give us the information that we need from all contributors. But let's not be fooled, it's also bad news: tax evasion is a shameful crime and a dissolving of social cohesion. He who evades taxes perhaps benefits himself, but harms thousands of people, most of them vulnerable. Therefore, this advisor cannot be satisfied with these data, either as a counselor or as a citizen of the country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.41.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on Catalan researchers in European research. [[Ask the Government about Catalan researchers in European research]] [[310-00177/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Munell, Member of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Constellera Geis, the data from 2021 and recent shows that Catalonia continues to feel a country of innovation, a country of entrepreneurship. In this case, the entrepreneurs, the start-ups, 2021 captured almost 1,500_million euros of inversion, the highest xifra of the historical series. Relations at European level also place Barcelona as the fourth city of the European Union in capturing round funding, start-ups, the reverse-volume sisena. Also the fourth ecosystem to capture scale-ups, is to say, start-ups that capture more than 1_million_dollars of finance. From these start-ups, the sixty-five_per_cent do so with what is 'industry 4.0', in advanced technology sectors such as big data, cloud, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things..., ending with what was just a few moments ago the Councillor Puigneró. Catalonia has therefore become a European and global referent in this type of sector, a sector that is firmly rooted in the university sector, the research sector, the transfer of technology. A sector that obviously needed a research council and universities like you encapsulated it. Catalonia works, walks to continue feeling this world referent in search. This system is a robust system that therefore needs courage, needs strategic reversals, needs imagination of the future. And even according to the data we have from the Horizon programme, which ended in 2020, Catalonia picked up 1,500_million euros with competitive funds, huh? , a xifra that is 2.5_percent of the available funds, and therefore, places us in the order of capture per over what Catalonia represents in GDP, or over what Catalonia represents in population. They are extraordinary figures, but we also know that now, at the generation of 2022, a new programme of Horizon Foundation Packages has also been published until 2027. Counselor, how is Catalonia positioned in this new call, and how does it project that our country's excellent researchers and their talent can keep moving forward into the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.43.0	To answer, you have the word Ms. Gemma Geis, Research Advisor and Universities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.44.0	Good morning, President. Deputies and deputies, president, vice president. First, show my support also to Deputy Juvillà, and therefore, also express it publicly here in Parliament. And I thank you for the question, Deputy Munell, and the mayor. Last week I was able to visit the Chemical Institute of Sarria and talk to a researcher from Lloret, precisely, who explained to me that she was closing the application in order to be able to present herself at the call of the ERC Starting Grants. And yesterday evening, too, the innovation head of the Valley of Hebron, Laia Arnal explained to me all these technological reversals in the field of biomedical research that they have been able to raise since the Valley of Hebron. So what you're exposing is a very clear X-ray of which country we have, obviously from which country we want, that the country we want is an independent country where we can make this leap of truth in the search, but the search in this sense, in the country, has a position that stands out, right? This ERC call, the Starting Grants call, is a call that does what it does is help young researchers in the European field with research excellence projects, in projects that are excellent. In this sense, as you said, in this later resolution of the ERC there have been thirteen researchers and researchers from this country who have obtained funding. We are talking about a high funding of €1 million, for example, and that, in these calls, I would also like to point out that they discriminate positively against those women who are principal project researchers. In this sense, the very days, also from the government, we will give a boost to research projects and this policy will also make us our own. Because these Starting Grants, these policies, these thirteen aids that have been rejected by Catalan researchers and researchers, are a total of 397 aids donated by the European Union in this sense, the ERCs, which represent a 3.3_per_cent of the total of Europe, for which it represents Catalonia in population. Therefore, in the area of search we are above the percentage of population we have in the positive achievement of search aids. In such a way that you help them that we have managed in this sense the researchers and researchers of this country, they suppose fifty-seven per cent of the help that has been perceived in the joint of the Spanish State, and they place Catalonia in the ninth position of the twenty-three countries to which it clings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.45.0	Time's up, Counselor. I can feel it. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the government about totalitarianism viscut the next week to Vic]] [[310-00170/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on totalitarianism viscut the following week to Vic. Ask the question Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.46.0	Thank you, President. According to the mayor of Vic, Mrs Anna Erra, that the People's Party of Catalonia mounts an information tent in Vic is contrary to morality and good habits, which is why we were refused permission. Counselor, do you share this deeply undemocratic stance of the mayor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.47.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.48.0	President... MP, public space is and must be the sphere of freedom of expression, the guarantee of freedom of expression and the right to political participation of which only hate speech and incitement to violence can be excluded. And in this sense, we understand that the assemblies must ensure that political parties, social organizations, entities and groups of people who so organize themselves can expose their points of view, and they must also guarantee the exercise of the protest right of the citizens' assembly. That being said, the term "totalitarianism" cannot be extended to say anything. The term totalitarianism refers to a political regime that concentrates all power in the hands of a group in the service of an ideology – normally in the hands of a single party – and that the Government of the State controls absolutely all areas of public and private life of the citizenry. In this sense, one cannot accept the banalization of the concept of totalitarianism, especially at the gates of the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, which is commemorated tomorrow, and, therefore, the term " totalitarianism does not refer to the reality that is lived in the village or city of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.49.0	To put it another way, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.50.0	Yes, thank you, Counselor. I believe that, without being conscious, you have given a definition of totalitarianism. What he has done has been to describe his government and of course also the government of the City Council of Vic. Look, I'm not surprised by the mayor's attitude, because I think we all remember that xenophobic and racist speech that was marked in this very chamber on behalf of the tongue; a speech for which, of course, he had to apologize. But what makes me quite curious is his concept of morality and good manners. Is cutting the Meridian every night for more than two years part of good morals and customs? Because you, bittering those neighbors every night, for more than two years, call it freedom of expression, but that a political party will explain your project or that, for example, an entity like School of All will collect signatures for a sentence to be served, it seems to you bad, very bad and contrary to the good habits. And we were denied permission, obviously, in a way, I insist, arbitrary and undemocratic; facts that, of course, we have already brought to the attention of the prosecution. Look, a few months ago my party opened a local meeting in Vic, which means that there are Vic's neighbors who vote and feel identified with the People's Party. Also others with Vox or Citizens. And I'm going to take a break here because I understand that this information to some may be traumatic, but it is, gentlemen. Because this « a people's sun which Mr Aragonès sells, therefore, is just another fallacy of independence. And look, Catalans are all of us, also those we don't think of as separatism. And as Catalans we are, we have all the right and also the duty as political representatives, to be present throughout the territory. And neither Anna Erra, nor anyone from separatism, nor the totalitarians who received us to insults and pushes will prevent it. And let's go through every corner of every town in every province of this wonderful land that is Catalonia and that you strive to impoverish. And no matter how much they point us out or how much they try to intimidate us with their screams and their hatred, they know they'll never be able to shut us up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.51.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.52.0	No unconsciousness or trauma, I told you. The definitions mean what they mean, and the term "totalitarianism" is a very strong term, it has obviously been very traumatic and tragic to the length of the history of humanity and it means what it means and not anything. That said, I can repeat it again. I can say it higher, but it's not clearer. The assemblies must ensure that all political parties, that all social groups, that all entities can express their points of view at the same time as they must guarantee the right to protest the assembly of the citizenry. I don't think the government's position can be more explicit. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.53.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the actions to be taken to guarantee the right of the student to pay the twenty-i-five percent of the classes in the castle. [[Ask the Government about the actions to be taken to guarantee the right of the student to twenty-five percent of the classes in the castle]] [[310-00171/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Martín of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.54.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor Cambray, could you explain to me what steps your advice is giving to apply..., to compliment this term of God who gave you the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to introduce a twenty-i-five percent, as at least, from castle to Catalan classrooms? Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.55.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.56.0	Thank you, President. Member, we, the steps that we are following are the steps that we have always followed, that it is fighting and defending the model of Catalan school, that it is a model of success, a model of equity, of social cohesion and of equal opportunity. And what we do and what we follow always do, always, will always be given answer to the law of education of Catalonia, which tells us that all the students, when they finish fourth of ESO, sunny up the competitions both in català and in castella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.57.0	To answer the question, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.58.0	Counselor, the truth is, I didn't expect another answer from you. What you have done has been to repeat a whole series of mantras and dogmas that nationalism has been circulating in Catalan society for forty years to try to justify a clearly unjust system, a system that violates rights, a system that despises the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia. The right of the citizens of Catalonia to receive an education in Catalan and also in Spanish, something as simple as that, which, according to various surveys, is also the preferred option for most Catalans. Receive an education in the school that describes, which reflects what is normal in the streets of Catalonia. Catalan and Spanish living together in the classrooms in harmony, in coexistence and without any problems. The problem is that the so-called "linguistic immersion" is a model based on nationalist dogmas, it is a model based on the will to subject the citizenry to a fear of an alleged external enemy, that if you push that system so profoundly unjust would have devastating consequences, in your opinion, for Catalan society. It is quite the opposite, but so do nationalisms, using the fear of citizenship to dangers that do not exist. You have an obligation to implement a bilingual system in Catalan schools and to comply with the judicial requirements that you have been jumping for decades; now the last of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia is very clear. And you must stop violating the rights of the citizens of Catalonia. Linguistic immersion, or the so-called "linguistic immersion", is a profoundly unjust system, which violates citizens' rights, which also profoundly harms Spanish-speaking citizens who have worse results than Catalan-speaking citizens and, by the way, also harms Catalan-speaking citizens who are deprived of their right to be educated in a language that is also common to Catalans and very important throughout the world. So I, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, Mr. Counsellor, ask you, if you think it is worth continuing to violate judicial sentences and above all I demand that you put an end to this profoundly unjust and harmful system... Thank you, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.59.0	Time's up. To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.60.0	Yeah, now I do. Gentlemen of Ciutadans, leave our schools alone, let our masters work, who are the ones who know how to do their work. We have no linguistic conflict in Catalonia. They made you up when they arrived, and they have lived and only know how to live the confrontation and the lie. It's the only weapon they have before their shipwreck, before their disappearance, and they want to save the furniture with the tongue. We are before a feeling that is based – I look up at absurdity – on a feeling..., on a law that is already repealed. Are we talking about a sentence... who are the courts like to go against a political consensus of this Parliament of decades and decades? We're talking about a feeling about the disenfranchisement that happens to Catalan schools. And we're talking – above all, very important, I know this doesn't matter to you – about a feeling that doesn't have any pedagogical criteria. Language learning does not range from percentages, language learning goes from pedagogy. And, therefore, we, at the expense of our masters. All masters have all the protection – all the protection – of this government, all the political protection and all the legal protection. And we'll go further. Let's go further and really push... We recognize what's going on in Catalan schools with the use of catalá, and we're deploying a catalá pulse to our educational centers. And we'll deploy a new standard framework to close this Catalan school model. The català, language vehicle to our schools; the school in Catalonia, in català. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.61.0	He asked the Government to reply orally to the plenary on the reservation of places for women to the operative bodies of the Generalitat. [[Ask the Government about the reservation of places for women to the operative bodies of the Generalitat]] [[310-00178/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lluïsa Llop of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Counselor Elena... The story of women and feminist movement is the story of a long struggle for our equality in all aspects. In some, it has certainly advanced a lot; in others, as in the case of the Emergencies and in the Security Things, we are very backward. From the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, from years ago and later from the hands of two great spokespersons to the Commission of Interior, such as Montse Fornells and Nuria Picas, we have worked to put the focus on this need for equality for firefighters, squad movements and rural agents. I cast the equality in these bodies, in their access, in the best of professional careers, in the female leadership in them to reverse these inequalities. The figures are very clear, counselor. Only the twenty-i-u_per_cent of the squadron's staff are women. This percentage is down to thirteen per cent if we're talking about rural agents, and we're still down to two per cent if we're talking about firefighters. Speaking of firefighters and feeling jealous, let's have three great women: Joana Vilarroig, Montse Nebot and Manoli Ocaña, three women who joined Gelida's volunteer firefighters park in 1980 and who, two years later, the Government of Catalonia recognized as the first women in the Cos de Bombers. If we talk about the total percentage in the bodies, which were very low, if we talk about it in the places of command or responsibility the women are 12.6_per_cent to Mossos; 9.6, to Rural Agents, and 1.45, to Bombers. Given this small proportion of women and gender inequalities, counselor, we need to deploy actions decided to increase the number of women there, implementing equality plans, increasing both the presence and visibility with dissemination actions, improving the promotion of women in command positions so as to achieve more women's leadership and normalize the role of women. It is essential and urgent to feminize them. And, aware of the work that they are doing from their department, accompanied by the Equality and Feminisms, the work that has been done and what will be done to implement Republican policies of equality, Councillor Elena, we would like to know the measures that are unfolding in order to achieve this need for equality in the things of emergence and security. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.63.0	To answer the word, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.64.0	President, Congresswoman... effectively, it's a situation that's not sustainable, isn't it? And it is true that many actions have taken place for a long time. And it is true that I must recognize the work done by many firefighters, squadrons and rural agents, who have worked, and much, to improve this situation. Now we're here because things aren't just denunciation, they're not just evidence, they're just because, more than that, they change, because things and changes happen. And in this sense, effectively, we cannot accept that there is only a twenty-i-u_per_cent to Mossos d'Esquadra, of women, a thirteen_per_cent of Rural Agents and, to Bombers, a two. Fifty of 2,500 bombers. It's totally unacceptable. That's why we've taken a few measures. The first, a very important agreement which deploys a great deal of measures, which I do not have time to explain today, with the vast majority of the unions. An agreement that we signed the other day and that many of the people who came, many of the women, many of the agents told us that it was a historic agreement for which they had struggled so much and so long within their bodies, that many times it has not been easy, as in the realm of life. Then, also encouraging internal promotions that facilitate access to women, changing the number of women in the commandments. It's true, there was a twenty-and-five... then, there was a twenty-and-a-cent of squadron moves at these times, but at the dome there was only one god. At this point, there's not a twenty-five, and we need to go further. And then with this measure of the reserve of seats, which we have enabled through the accompanying law and which we have then realized in the first promotion of Mossos d'Esquadra, which is in these current moments, in which there is a reserve of seats of forty_per_cent. Then Bombers will come, then Rural Agents will come, with the same percentages, because at this rate it would take years to guarantee equality. And the law of equality, as the Verge Counsellor always says, is to complete it. That is why we are taking these measures. And we do it not just for justice, but because our security and energy systems, to make the work better, are to be assembled into the society they serve. That's why we're doing these measurements. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.65.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on public kangaroo services. [[Ask the government about public kangaroo services]] [[310-00179/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Raquel Sans, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. Consellera Verge... The number of part-time contracts in the case of gifts triples the number of men. The number-three percent of the excesses to take care of dependent children and people ask for the gifts. If we analyze our environment more closely, I am sure that all of us know people, in a very majority way women, who make genuine jugglings to be able to reconcile work and family life, a reconciliation that is often impossible and that ends up implying excesses or shortening of time with the consequences that these end up having in the economic and working conditions of these women. The task of healing is mostly, as we say, in the women, as all the questions about the uses of time show, and that, in many cases, also leads to problems of mental salvation in the form of anxiety and depression, that feeling of not getting there. Now let's get to the place of single-parent families – a god to Catalonia – that in a very majority way are also integrated by a sea with children and girls in charge. All the tickets, therefore, the paid work, get into these seas, but all the family logistics, too. Marrying work and family is impossible. Now let's imagine that this mother is a migrant woman without a family network who takes care of herself through the submerged economy. Is this where you take care of these people? Who takes care of these women? Who takes care of those who take care of them? Putting this situation on the political agenda is essential in order to enable the feminist transformation that we have proposed to ourselves with the country to take place in the long term. A few weeks ago, we knew, Counsellor Verge, that the Government of the Generality will allocate 20_million euros to give response to these needs through these public kangaroos. An initiative which, in addition to other measures such as the gratuitousness of the P2, is aimed at eradicating inequalities not only between women and men, but also between children. In this sense, counsel, we would be pleased if you would give us more information about this measure of public competition and benefit as a Member, as a woman, as a mother, also to congratulate her, to congratulate the Government, to put this question on the agenda of public policies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.67.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.68.0	President, Member, the Time for Care program responds to very basic daily needs of reconciliation, as you pointed out, but it also proposes a structural change in relation to cures. To the government we are responsible for the care of infants and adolescents from zero to fourteen years and do so with an inversion of more than a thousand... of 20_million euros for the year 2022. And there's a series of central feminist ideas that I'd like to subrate. In the first place, we advance in the right to the cures as the right to citizenship, as a universal right with services that go from point-to-point cures in equipment or at home, ludotheques, spaces of colliding to the schools, other activities of going out of the period and of the school schedule. Secondly, we move on to the right at the right time, because these cures involve being able to free families and women of time. We know that women suffer the poorest of time, a time released not only for employment, but in a very important way for social and political participation, for training, for the oci. Thirdly, we take into account the diversity of families and women. They are universal servants, but they will prioritize single-parent families, families with need... with added responsibility for healing, women in a situation of male, long-term violence and migrating women, because – as he also pointed out – they are the ones who take care of the most and the poorest of their time. Fourthly, we take into account territorial diversity and work with the municipalities, make it easier for the municipalities to identify those who are in need of time and care for their people. And from the Department of Equality and Feminisms we accompany and coordinate these services in the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants in a direct way by the municipalities and in the smaller ones by the local councils, they also observe territorial singularities such as geographical dispersion, the risk of depopulation, etc. And in five places, we revalue the cures, a job that we know is very feminized, precarious and lacking in its social value. And we have done so by increasing the quality of employment in this sector, and we have also done so with a new professional accreditation of cures that will allow many people, especially women in this case, to gain access to better working conditions. It's... it's part of the feminist transformation and this program is here to stay. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.69.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on measures to tackle the crisis in raw materials. [[Asks the Government to respond orally in the plenary on measures to tackle the crisis in raw materials]] [[310-00180/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Workers and Workers of Parliament; our support and thanks for your indispensable and excellent task that you are doing day by day for all of you. Thank you. Counsel, during the past few months we are witnessing a crisis of sub-administration and provision that is having important consequences at various levels. As you know, the intense recovery of demand for intermediate products and goods is so high that, quite often, the offer fails to meet the demand and speculative practices of some large global suppliers, in addition, try to achieve the maximum benefit from the exaggerated price increase. We are witnesses of a situation with critical first materials and components such as semiconductors that are not arriving. We are also experiencing a huge increase in energy costs and a crisis in world transport, especially in the maritime sphere and the lack of availability of contents that generates a col d'ampolla and an increase in prices. So all the conditions for directly affecting the activity and competitiveness of Catalan companies are coming together. And, consequently, it also represents an impact on consumers and citizenship in general when this increase in business costs translates into an increase in prices. We can also remember that inflation is growing at levels that had not been seen in the eurozone since 2008 or that had not been seen in the United States since 30 years ago. Without going any further, in the past year it has increased..., it has increased the CPI in a six_per_cent. We find ourselves, therefore, in a scene that brings together high transport costs, high energy costs and high costs... high prices in raw materials. It is uncertain until this situation that is already affecting many sectors in Catalonia, especially industrial ones, will widen. Some of them, such as mobile manufacturers, electronic products and automobiles, are very affected by the lack of semiconductor sub-administrations; steel and metallurgy; stem-related sectors, such as paper packaging and cartron, or the food sector, for the enormous pressure on costs and profit margins for price increases in raw materials, packaging and transport. We are aware that much of the causes of this crisis escape from the competence of its department or of the same Generality, but we also know that it is impossible, therefore, to find an absolute solution. Now, can you tell us what action you intend to take in order to help Catalan companies deal with this situation with maximum guarantees?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.71.0	I'm sorry, Congressman, time's up. To answer, the word has the advisor Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.72.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, we are actually in a very complex scene that threatens the competitiveness of our companies. And, unfortunately, as you said, we have no skills to tackle the causes of this crisis, many of which are global. But this does not mean that we do nothing, the opposite: we have done and we will do everything in our grasp to help the businesses of this country, to help Catalan businesses. I want to put in value that until now, during all these months of deputy ministers' crisis, we have been accompanying the companies of the country so as to minimize the effects of this crisis, but we cannot stay here, we want to go further there. And that's why I'm taking advantage of it to announce that we're putting out the supply and logistics window, a window inserted between the Action structure, aimed at the peppers that have registered a very large burden of transportation costs, that misses the spread of raw materials or delays in the arrival of certain materials, or even what they want to optimize routes or search for logistics operators. In this direction, it directs this window and will use different instruments, some of which we create ex novo, such as a consultation response service to technical barriers – than orange trees, but technical barriers –; an observer to assess at every moment in real time the costs of transport, at any of its platforms, to know exactly at every moment, for example, what it is worth to send a content from Asia to Barcelona; a logistic guidance service; and a search and diversification service from our suppliers. And, in this sense, we make available the network of the forty International Offices of Action or mechanisms such as the Supplier Search Service to search for these new providers. All this is what we plant with this window of supplies and logistics, but we also need to remember that we have in the way, together with the ICF, a disposition of 100_million euros in the form of loan lines to ensure the circulation of the companies that are patenting the most of this crisis. And that on the part of the Department of Enterprise and Work we help, for example, so with the possibility to establish guarantees of ends to the eighty_per_cent of the capital to ensure precisely this circulating that allows companies... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.73.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on public energy enterprises and the need for the Generality to recover existing ones on a global scale. [[Ask the Government about the public energy companies and the need for the Generalitat to recover the existing ones at municipal level]] [[310-00182/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Pau Juvillà, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A new cycle to win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the first place, let me make an incis. As long as Mr. Delete is today in the Chamber, convey our support to him. Against fascism, not a step back. [[Greetings.]] Counsel, does the Government of the Generality intend to recover and protect the municipal public energies that exist through public energy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.75.0	To answer the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.76.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before anything else, Mr Juvillà, I also want you to know, in this case, that you have all my support in defending your shield and obviously our sovereignty. And now answering his question, and in a dynamic way, the creation of public energy is advancing, and it is not doing so firmly because it is a tool– we have explained on many occasions– extremely essential before the need to accelerate the energy transition obviously towards a renewable model, a distributed model and a model clearly participated for the citizenry. That is why, as you also know, this public energy appears in the governance plan of this legislature as one of the priorities of this execution and that it must also allow us to align energy policies with the preservation of the natural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.77.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.78.0	Madam counsel, your words sound good, but we think the fetuses beat her up. The March of last year, it will be a year ago, we approved a minimum investment agreement with his party, with Esquerra, that detailed among others the creation of a public energy to recover public control of energy able to affect all phases of the electrical sector in order to define and plan the model of energy transition. Then, at the plenary session on 8 July, we approved a motion which we presented to us for the creation of this Catalan public energy with favourable votes by the Socialists, the Esquerra, the Junts, the commons and ours, obviously a force, a very significant majority. What's happened since then, what's happened since it's almost a year? So it's easy: that the electric oligopolises have increased their benefits by constantly pushing the price of the light, that every day it has a new memory, making it come years after the process of liberalizing the electricity in the Spanish State and the European Union the price of the light has increased by more than a hundred_per_cent, while the average wage has only made a twenty_per_cent. What else happened, for example? Therefore, that Endesa threatens and coerces the veins and veins of the Fosca Valley with heights of light in full winter, denounced by the CUP constantly, trying to cancel for example the convention of the year 1927. It also happens that the 16th generation, for example, the Llimiana Assembly announced that it will shut down the municipal electrical company that currently supplies some one hundred and forty times because they cannot adapt the Spanish regulations of the electricity sector. And it also happens that we have no awareness that we have begun to work for the reversal of hydropower plants with fallen concessions, such as that of Sant Quirze de Besora, Can Trinxet, or that we have neither made available to municipalities, such as the Vall Fosca, the legal services of the Generalitat, as it was. It's urgent and I don't admit delay activating public energy, counselor. You're urgent. We can't afford to lose any more public energy. We cannot delay the creation of this energy because it is a question of social justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.79.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.80.0	Thank you. All right, you're right. Things happen, huh? There's just a lot going on, and that's why we're also working. In fact, we are working because this public energy is an instrument with an inverter capacity and that has this inverter capacity in generation in this electric case, but also in the distribution, the recharging services, for example, of the electric car, the storage services, the services also means the addition of flexible demand and the services, at the same time, the marketing connected to these new economic models. That is why, on 23 November, we approved by agreement to govern a programme for the design and creation of this public energy, which, in a very short way, must be the instrument that helps us to drive – we have explained many times – the participation of the Administration in the ownership of the nine plants of renewable generation, which also helps and participates in the development of renewable energy communities and citizens, and here, in which you referred, also enters the public management of the hydroelectric power plants of which the concessions lapsed. And in this sense – I am no longer speaking in the future, but in the present – we are working, obviously, on these recoverys from hydroelectric power plants with the local municipalities, based on the example I always set, on this co-management, obviously. We are working in a protocol for these casuistics, recovery, and the first municipality that will be recovered and put into operation, in this case, will be Sant Quirze de Besora, that we have already met, and that just the week that we are meeting again to work already this protocol. Actually, this is the way forward... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.81.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Some applause.]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the decision of the Assembly of Vic (Osona) to prohibit entities and parties from installing stands for ideological reasons]] [[317-00098/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.82.0	Thank you, President. How do you appreciate the decision of the City Council of Vic to ban entities and parties from installing tents for ideological reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.83.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.84.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, we respect municipal autonomy. And I am convinced that if you do not agree with this decision of Vic's Assembly, then you will end the resources and powers allowed by the regulations. We defend the right to freedom of expression for everyone. And, therefore, it is the responsibility of all public administrations to guarantee it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.85.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.86.0	Thank you, President. As it was predictable, and in the midst of ambiguities, not only do they not condemn what happened in Vic last Saturday, but they insist on defending the censorship that means banning the installation of tents to perfectly democratic entities and parties. They do so because according to you, I quote, "against morality and good habits. In short, they do not recover the law of vagus and maleuses of 1933 because of that elemental thing of not putting themselves at risk. Planted this, I ask myself a question. You are often mocked that we have little parliamentary representation, which is rigorously true. What then comes so afraid that we will install a simple tent to explain our ideas? Are we so dangerous? You confuse consensus with totalitarian censorship. There is no society where everyone thinks the same; neither has there been nor will there be. They lose all hope in that regard. No one has achieved such barbarity in the history of mankind and no one will. I accept that you think differently than I do, but I advance you that I will never think like you. And no matter how much you exclude, point out, chase and even prevent a simple tent from being installed, we'll never think like you, and you won't be able to bend us. They also lose all hope in that sense; it is impossible. And it is very important that you process that simple idea. It's metaphysically impossible for them to bend us. And until they accept that palm evidence, Catalonia will not regain normalcy and democratic coexistence. In his hand he's doing it. I'm very afraid that with you, there will be no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.88.0	Mr. Congressman, I'll give you a first. This Plea is not the Plea of the Assembly of Vic; it is the Plea of the Parliament of Catalonia. If you have any controversy, conflict, difference, discrepancy, with the acts administered by an assembly, you have the instruments, as a citizen, as a political organization, which the legislation provides for to be able to resort to. You don't make a joint decision a universal category from which to try to build a supposed persecution. The persecution we have experienced in this country has been the one that has political prisoners to be four years engaged and the one that forces people to live in exile because if they trepidated the Spanish State they would be in the same situation. Therefore, do not intend to make a concrete situation, that you have all the possibilities in your abst to be able to resort, in order to be able to discuss, a category of general situation. And, therefore, honourable Member, I know that you do not have a presence at the Assembly of Vic, in the municipal plethora; I am sure you would fight to recover it, but, I remember, this is the Plethra of the Parliament of Catalonia, not the Plethra of the Assembly of Vic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.89.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality whether he will meet with the President of Aragó to discuss the organisation of the Winter Olympic Games]] [[317-00097/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.90.0	Mr President, I am pleased that you are here to answer our questions, because you have given negative in covid. I also hope that your environment will enjoy good health. And since you're fine and you're going to plenary, I'd ask you if you're finally meeting with President Lamban this Friday to work for a joint application on an equal footing with Aragon for the 2030 Winter Games. Therefore, my question is: President Aragonès, will you meet with the Aragonese President? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.92.0	This joke never happened to me, huh? [[Rialles.]] Anyway, I appreciate your words. So, you see, yesterday, out of prudence, until you had a PCR that you confirmed was denied, I chose to work telematically, the same way the government recommends teletreball for cases like this. If it can be done, then it's done. In any case, respect your question, this diverger is predicting that there will be a meeting with the President of the Government of Aragó to discuss many issues. In fact, many years ago there was no gathering of these characteristics. We will obviously be dealing with questions arising from European foundations, those areas of shared work. It is also evident that there have been significant disputes and differences in the past few years. All this will also be addressed. And obviously, therefore, the possibility of the Olympic Games in the Pyrenees will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.93.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.94.0	President, you are resisting running for the 2030 Olympic Winter Games on an equal footing with Aragon. They do so against the criteria of the EOC, against the criteria of the Government of Aragon and against the criteria of the Government of Spain. You launch a message of pride of nationalism, of contempt for the rest of the autonomous communities. You, with your nationalist message, always pretend to show that Catalans are the best. Moreover, even within Catalonia are better Catalans and true Catalans the Catalan nationalists. Look, the Olympic Winter Games are not a project of Catalan nationalism, they are a project of country, of the country of which we are part together with the Aragonese, the Andalusian, the Castilanoleonese, the Batians... ; as the Olympic Games of the year 92 were thirty years ago. And Aragon is very important for Catalonia; it is our main trading partner with Catalan companies; there are one hundred and thousand Aragonese living here; we have historical, cultural, sentimental and economic ties with Aragon, but you have despised these relations and did not attend the meeting between the main Catalan and Aragonese employers. Remember, Mr Aragonès, your main responsibility and the only really important thing for a president of the Generalitat is to work for the economic and social progress of Catalonia, not your identity obsession that harms Catalonia, isolates us, gives us bad image and leads us to decay. The CUP and part of its party are committed to that project of the Olympic Winter Games derailed. Leave the localist pettyities, reconsider their position, renew relations with our Aragonese compatriots for important games for Catalonia... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.95.0	Time's up, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Pause.]] To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.96.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, the proposal on the Winter Olympics must be a proposal based on basic criteria, the criteria of sustainability, of not investing in equipment that is then in disuse; they must contribute to economic diversification and to social, business development, entrepreneur of the project Pirineu. And, therefore, it is working on a proposal for a technical character in which, therefore, it is visualizing who are the possible spaces to perform the tests. In the case of Catalonia, this will also have to happen, as we have agreed and as this Parliament has approved, for a consultation that will be made to the provinces of the Pyrenees and the Aran so that the citizenry is who accompanies this candidacy. I am convinced that if we can get this candidacy to be designed in those terms it will count on the endorsement of the citizenry, because the territory has to fly. In any case, many things have been said these days, about the nomination for the 2030 Winter Olympics, but what is certain is that if the territory does not want it, there will be no games. And, therefore, it is important to be able to work with the vigil of the Pyrenees and the Aran, with the comarques, so that they will see the celebration of these games. So let them feel free to participate fully... and on the other hand, the location, from a technical point of view, of the places where the tests will be carried out, in the best possible places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.97.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the link between the future economics of the Pyrenees and the conjunction of Catalonia's production model with the Winter Olympic Games]] [[317-00102/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.98.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, I wanted to begin my question by reading a small fragment of a report prepared by the Generalitat in 2017 on climate change, saying: "Neu tourism is more vulnerable to climate change than sun and platter tourism. The natural and technical viability of the Pyrenees ski resorts has many questions. Existing stations will be affected and some even lead to disappearance under current climate conditions. President, before this statement, do you consider that it is logical, that it is normal to link the future of the Pyrenees and, ultimately, the Catalan production model to the Winter Olympics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.100.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, this government does not link the future of either the Pyrenees or the combination of the country's product model to an event that is very relevant, very important, but we do not link the future. If for what it was, then, it is not possible to celebrate the Winter Olympics of the year 2030, we will continue to work for the economic diversification of the Pyrenees, for development and for the struggle against depopulation in those regions. In these weeks and in the next few months, all technical studies and independent studies will be completed so that they can include, also, who are the climate perspectives for which they impact on the Olympic Games of the year 2030. But this government is committed to the Pyrenees regardless of future events. And I can put as an example, therefore, the late tunnel of access to the regions of Pirinaeus, which was opened a few weeks ago; the compromise in the development of optical fiber to the regions of Pirinaeus; the bet for rural schools to prevent the municipalities being left without school when the school population drops; the bet for the proximity product, and to promote the replenishment to agricultural farms and branches, to give continuity to Pirinaeus. In the past year, the regions of Pirinaeus have also had an increase in the name of tourists and visitors, as well as domestic tourism in the country. And this has also contributed to de-seasonalization and to giving it clearly, so much stronger to a sector that is not the only one, but that is a sector that is reliant on these regions, such as tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.101.0	To answer the question, Ms. Jessica Albiach has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.102.0	President, good words, but few facts. I'll tell you three things. The first, you are telling the people of the Pyrenees that or Olympic Games or anything. That's what they're saying. If they want more investment, Olympic Games or nothing. If they want better infrastructure and more public transportation, Olympic Games or nothing. And this has a name, and it's called chanting. Because they are all relying on a letter that, moreover, is without giving alternative, no work alternative, no housing alternative, no solution to the depopulation they suffer; a letter with an objective, which is to follow from the Pyrenees – and you have ratified it just now – the winter Caribbean of the metropolitan area. The second question. You're promoting a query that – let me say so – is almost to measure to avoid the no; a query that, to start, excludes the Solsonès, the Ripollès and the Berguedà. And, besides, at the moment we're blind; today, we don't know yet the environmental impact, we don't know who the infrastructure would involve, we don't know as much alone if there's not going to be any in the Pyrenees and how much it's not going to cost. You, in the case of climate change, are almost acting as if Meryl Streep were on the Don't Look Up movie. And finally, President, you always talk a lot about transformations, he likes to talk about transformations very much. But the only thing he has taught us for the moment, his strategic stakes are: for Barcelona and Prat, expansion of the airport; for Camp de Tarragona, the largest casino in Europe, and now for Pirineu, the Olympic Games. And that is why, President, we ask you to rectify, to rectify and to give alternatives, because at this stage your Government, the Government of Aragon is at risk of being remembered as the Government of failed macro-projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.104.0	Thank you. Deputy, who has improved the connectivity of the Pyrenees opening the Tresponts tunnel is the Government of the Government of Catalonia, who has brought public transport to the People of Segur by means of Railways of the Government of Catalonia is the Government of Catalonia. Anyway, what I'm sorry about is that we have the R3 and the R4 as they are. And, therefore, it is necessary to implement measures already in these two lines to improve the connectivity of the Pyrenees in areas and lives that are competence of the State. And, in fact, many times the State also acts with immediate needs and on the calendar. And in this sense, if you consider that you are against, for example, the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees or other proposals that demand the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.105.0	I'm sorry, President; time is running out. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the reasons for which the government defends the Olympic Games to the Pyrenees]] [[317-00103/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater, Member of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.106.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, President. So, look, we could precisely see that these past few days the government has launched a marketing campaign to defend, precisely, the Winter Olympic Games in the Pyrenees. I will not ask you any specific questions about the mountain of this question now, because we have already done this by writing to Councilwoman Vilagrà, but I do ask you a question, President: are you really defending the Olympic Games in the Pyrenees? Are you willing to defend it and promote it in full climate change, when, as has already been said here today, you have studied how to certify that between two and fifteen years of age there will be two ski resorts, with a model that is not promoting economic diversification and that is still relying on a mass tourism, ephemeral, that generates insecurity and that does not generate what you have said so many times when you speak of the supposed green economy, of this conversion of working places as a function of the climate change? Where are you? Who's this green economic model you've been talking to so much about? Is that what you want for the Catalan Republic? Why do they do that? The question I'm asking you is, how are you defending these Olympic Games in the Pyrenees? Did I do it to please the Spanish State? Because there's one thing there's no doubt about, and it's that in this proposal that will lead the Spanish Olympic Committee, not the sovereignty of the Government of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.108.0	Well, honourable Member, respect your question: we are doing what this Parliament has approved, and Parliament has approved that a consultation on the Winter Olympic Games be completed in the regions of the Pyrenees. And that's what we do, complete parliamentary agreements. If we didn't, you'd tell us that we're incomplete, so we're complete. And I think we should leave it in the hands of the citizens of the Pyrenees that I can decide, that I can have all the information about the table. In these months since I became president, in the different visits he has made to the regions of Pirinaeus, we have asked for information about this project, to be able to participate. I have also felt a large majority of elected officials, mayors and mayors, defending the opportunity of this project. And I believe that as president of my obligation it is to listen to them, to listen to their proposals and, therefore, from here to work so that the project is as best as possible, because it helps us to diversify economic activity, because it also helps to place Pirinaeus on the map, not to defend an ephemeral and absolutely seasonal tourism model, but to show all the potential of Pirinius, to be able to pour also investments that allow the connection of productive activity to the territory more than is seasonal tourism, such as, for example, in the development of sport tourism, sports technology, the location of enterprises in the field of new technologies. We'll do it through a participatory process. And this Parliament that we have asked so many times to listen to what the people ask for, we will do so. And on the question, it's a sea study, which, obviously, is at its disposal. And before we push a project like this we like to know what the initial perception of citizenship is, and I think it's good and willing to consult.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.109.0	To ask, has the word the deputy lady Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.110.0	But it's obvious that you've already gone. You have expressly excluded the areas that are most positioned against this project. And you can tell me what you want, president, you can make it up the way you want, but there's a very clear summary, and it's that this project that you're going to make with money from everyone, that it's going to be a big investment with money from everyone, that it's going to flatten the land to the interests of the tourist lobby and the building lobby, that you're already taking care of the hands to think about the benefits that come from speculating with the future of the Pyrenees, and the lobby of the Spanish State, that you're taking care of the hands of seeing how you're going to conquer the whole world, will show that there is no conflict between Catalonia and the State. Perhaps you'd like to allow... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.111.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, as I said, we are old because..., this project, as I said, has repeatedly only felt if it is a project that takes sustainability into account, if it is a project that does not create infrastructures that are then in disuse, it will not be associated with urban development of speculative character. This is our commitment, and so we will work. And I'm convinced that with the passage of time, so you will also find that what I'm saying is converted into facts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.113.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the measures envisaged to combat social emergence]] [[317-00104/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.114.0	Mr Aragonès, how do you value and what do you intend to do to tackle the social emergency facing Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.116.0	Thank you very much, President. The Government has launched a project of assumptions for the year 2022 that was approved for this Parliament; a project that multiplyes by two, from 2,000 to 4,000, the chapter of investments, which incorporates a very significant increase in social parties in the field of health, in the educational field, in the field of social rights, especially in the field of housing. And, therefore, what we would do is apply and execute the assumption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.117.0	To answer the question, Mr Ignacio Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.118.0	Mr Aragonès, every week the Catalans rise up with bad news that leaves our region leading a new statistic on precariousness or poverty, when it is not a new attack on legality. With you, Catalonia is unprotected and current Catalans pay for the consequences of its disastrous management. Catalonia has become the region of Spain where the most price of rent has risen in 2021, more than ten_per_cent in just one year. Prices rise as Catalans' incomes fall, and thus the possibilities of families fade. Yesterday, social entities spoke that there are around eighteen_ thousand people living in precarious conditions in Catalonia, without access to a home, sixty_per_cent more than in 2016, that is, the moment when you squeezed the accelerator of the political, social and moral degeneration of Catalonia. You have normalized that where there was once a prosperous and exemplary region for the rest of Spain and a benchmark for Europe now only reigns degradation and insecurity. Its open-door policies have made the streets of Catalonia the most dangerous in all of Spain and its zero social responsibility with Catalans has pushed thousands of Catalans to live on the streets in the face of the impossibility of paying a rent. That's his model for Catalonia: Catalonia's pay for criminals, illegal immigration and containers as housing for honest workers. A Catalonia where everything is in question, where public services are weakened and capital institutions of our society, such as education, are besieged by their ideological fanaticism. What are you going to do to help Catalans who are forced to sleep on the street, Mr Aragonès? What are you going to do to address this social emergency? Will they stop squandering that money from all Catalans in their ideological fanaticism? Look, Mr Aragonès, the Catalans don't want talks or eco-feminists or debates about witches, what they want is quality public services in their neighborhoods, stable jobs, decent wages and a home where they can form a family. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.120.0	Thank you very much, President. I welcome the fact that the extreme right in this Parliament has come to grips with the problem of sensillarism in our country, and, consequently, should admit that part of this problem is the situation of administrative irregularity in which many people are found to have been born in another state outside Europe, and therefore the need for public policies to avoid this phenomenon, thus guaranteeing habitat for everyone. The extreme right in this Parliament is a complaint of the increase in the prices of the lloger, and it is the first to combat the price control measures of the lloger approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. The extreme right in this Parliament is a complaint of the difficulties of public services, but it is the first to combat the assumption that the greatest increase in resources in the field of public services in the later years. You are always fixed and you are complaining and trying to ridicule the debates, the proposals, the initiations because all those who have been on the periphery of those who have always managed can now feel attached, feel accompanied and feel that the Government of your country puts them at the centre of decisions. You try to fight the poor attacking feminism; you try to fight job insecurity attacking environmental sustainability. In short, you try to take advantage of the situation of difficulty that we suffer precisely because of the inequalities that the current economic system entails to strengthen it, because you were born for this, you were born to manipulate the difficulties of citizenship to reinforce what causes us to find ourselves in these difficulties. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.121.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the dialog table with the Spanish Government]] [[317-00100/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.122.0	Thank you very much, President. President, deputies and deputies, members of the Government... In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, we cannot tolerate the insults made by the People's Party to a deputy, deputy Anna Erra, and mayor of Vic, during this monitoring session, a deputy compromise with the democratic values, civility and freedom of expression that she demonstrates in the exercise of her functions and with the renewed majority of citizens of Vic. [[Greetings.]] President, two years ago from the first meeting of the dialog table, and during these two years the dialog table has only met twice, that is, in two years, two meetings, and two meetings without results. Everyone's known, and I don't find anything new for anyone, Junts' scepticism for Catalonia towards the dial table. It is clear from the fact that Mr. Pedro Sánchez has not put forward any proposals on the table, nor one, and without the will to speak of amnesty or self-determination. In fact, it has made clear that the resolution of the conflict is no longer part of its priorities. I said it publicly and we also see it in its evasive to celebrate the next table of the dialog, which at these times is updated without day. Pedro Sánchez has never had a real willingness to negotiate. We could use the words of Minister Albares when he refers to the international news, which he says is not the same dialogue as negotiating – we fully agree. But, meanwhile, we start the year the same way we ended it, with the State that does not stop attacks on Catalonia: it attacks Catalonia, it attacks linguistic immersion, it attacks our sovereignty. You, President, at the message you made for Sant Esteve, you already started to say that we have to start building alternatives to advance towards independence. From Juntes to Catalunya we are in full agreement, we have to build alternatives to advance towards independence, share a joint strategy, a winning alternative between institutions and citizens, as we did the U of October. That's why we share with you this need to start building these alternatives to the dialog table, a table that is neither dialog nor negotiation. And in this sense, president, we'd like to hear your opinion... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.123.0	Time's up, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.124.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I would also like to add to the words that call for debates in this Chamber to be able to do so with the utmost respect for everyone and for all the Members who make up it; also, obviously, for the Members of your parliamentary group. That said, I am fully committed to the search for a democratic resolution and policy of the conflict between Catalonia and the State. Our society is a mature society and wants to decide its future release, without repression and by means of a recognized vote that allows us to apply the result with a recognition and follow-up by the international community. This is why I bet for a dialogue solution and a solution negotiated with the State. We have repeatedly called for proposals from the Spanish Government to be put on the table. How do you want the future relationship between Catalonia and Spain to be? Is there a new proposal? Is there any proposal or do we have to continue with things as they are? Because it's obvious that things as they are can't go on. That's why we have a proposal, a proposal that we also share, that we share in the combination of independence, which is amnesty and the exercise of the right to self-determination. This 2022, as I said in Sant Esteve's speech, must be the year in which the resolution of the political conflict begins to be unblocked. And, therefore, we must engage all forces in this, precisely; with the maximum mobilization, with the maximum unity between the independence forces so that the State and the Government of the State have all the incentives to engage in a much clearer, much more intense, much more compromised way in this negotiation process. The alternative for the state government is nothing, and that's a bad solution for everyone, it doesn't help resolve the conflict. That is why, in the next few days and weeks, I will bring to an end a series of meetings with those political forces that supported my investiture, which we share as part of the independence movement – also with the entities – to rearm independence, to bet clearly on the exercise of the right to self-determination and amnesty and to mobilise the country and all its representatives to the maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.125.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality how the government faces the coming months before the repression and political persecution of the State against independence]] [[317-00101/13]] The question is put by Mr Josep Maria Jové on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.126.0	Thank you very much, President. President, let us resume the political course in Parliament, but there are things that unfortunately do not change. Today's pick-up in this chamber is marked, with a sense of doubt, for the disqualification that an administered organ, such as the JEC, wants to impose on Congressman Pau Juvillà. Another one. Pau, always next to you. The general cause against independence does not stop, repression persists and that is why we answer it. We have said that we are selling; we have done a lot at the table; we have said that before we ratify it before the plenary, and we will do it again today. We are not one, neither two nor drawing people under the shadow of the political persecution of the State. There are many people who see your life, your work, your rights and your freedoms threatened. But repression goes further. It's a spasm of Damocles on the political rights of the whole city. It's not just the U of October, it's also. It is all the derivatives that have come in the past, that pretend to escape political dissent in all forms, degrees and colors; until the judicial bust has also reached the school. From drawing up teachers to coercing, from the courts, the clearest, clearest and most solid consensus of the country: the Catalan school. Justice is engulfed in school because some want courts to follow the nine legislative chambers and thus be able to tear down, in a sense, consensuses that are, above all, stalled in the city of this country. Because they want to – and we have said so a lot of times – win the prize when the ballot boxes deny it. And they won't be able to, because neither can they legislate from the courts nor the administrative organs are above the Parliament. That's why we'll say it as often as you need: before repression, all solidarity. In political and judicial attacks, they'll find us all, face to face. And they'll find us folded. President, we know that the most democratic response to repression is amnesty and, to interference, a reference to self-determination. That's precisely why we celebrate pushing a round of contacts with independent parties and entities. To analyze the own meso, yes; but also for the resolution of the political conflict in strictly democratic terms: amnesty and self-determination. As far as the presidency is concerned, you lead it and restate among all a consensual strategy that crystallizes the independence victory of the past 14th of February. That majority that was enough and that allowed his investiture. In this sense, president, how do your own government still feel? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.128.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I add to your words respect Congressman Pau Juvillà. All the support also from the government in defending the escho, which is ultimately the defense of the electoral results and the decision of the citizenry. The deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia we sort out the citizens of Catalonia and do not have to see's, this, altered by a decision of an electoral board that clearly exceeds itself in its functions. Therefore, I also welcome the Parliament's yesterday's decision to appeal the decision of the electoral board before the Supreme Court. Let's start the year with many questions about the table. One of them is that you mentioned this need to make a new boost in the negotiation process with the State and, therefore, intensify the actions so that the Government of the State is much more involved in resolving the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And we have to do this from the independence unit. We need to underline what we share, which is the defense of amnesty and self-determination. We have to do this, too, with the great actions that we have, that it is the ability to mobilize, to formulate in positive, of this cross-sectional and diverse character that independence has. An independence that on February 14th will celebrate a year after which, for the first time, in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, has overcome the barrier of fifty_per_cent of votes in favour of the parties defending this proposal. This tried to deny, tried to obviate, tried to make it see that it did not exist. The best way for those who are covering the eyes before this reality the realization again is the unit of action also in the parliamentary sphere and in relation to the State, of this majority independence in the ballot box and majority in Parliament. That's why I'm going to finish, in the next few days, this round of encounters with different actors of independence and, obviously, always open to talking to the assembly of those who defend a democratic resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and the State. I'll do it in the proper days. I think it's essential that, with the year's beginning, we reposition things, look at how we can move forward and do it too..., culminating in the 14th of February, in which I will also make public what my proposal is. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the proposal to hold a formal meeting with the head of the opposition]] [[317-00099/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Aragones, let's start today, with this Ple, the period of encany sessions. Aviat will make a year of the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, and you won't have to be surprised if I say it, with all the respect that you deserve me, that you know it's a lot, that from my point of view, your government doesn't work, it doesn't work; your government doesn't. For this, the need for an alternative. Maybe it'll be a little more strange if I tell him that we are, that I'm willing to help not to stop the country, because Catalonia is moving forward. Mr Aragonès, I ask you, I propose you, I ask you formally that it is time and day to have, after almost one year, a formal meeting between you and me, between the president and the head of the opposition, to talk and to see if we can jointly face the many challenges that Catalonia has planted. It's a proposition, I assure you, from sincerity and from a constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, you know I've never had a problem meeting you. In fact, we have met, yes, officially as at the head of the opposition to my office as President of the Generality to the Palau of the Generality. We were able to do so here in Parliament too. Therefore, I have no problem with meeting, with addressing the questions, therefore, that you want to raise. But I do make a correction: this government goes, and it goes because, for the first time in twelve years, between other things, we have some assumptions in force from the 1st generation; it goes because the votes in this..., as a legislative character in this Parliament, we get them over and we get the majority; it goes because the transformation projects in the social, the green, the feminist and the democratic fields are moving forward. If you want to... you want to contribute to this line, so no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.133.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.134.0	The proposal is clear. The answer, I'm afraid, is ambiguous. I'm going back to propose, I'm going back to formally ask for a meeting of you with the head of the opposition. Look, I don't have a personal need to talk to you, and I don't know if I get anything. I don't know if you're getting anything. I think Catalonia can make a lot of money. You have announced – and today we have asked some spokespersons – that you want to meet with those who think like you, with those who share a project, which I do not share, independentist. It's on your right. I think it's a mistake. I think we can find a basis for consensus to address, for example, the declining social use of catalá after two years of independent governments. I believe that we can find a basis for consensus, for example, to tackle the problem of renewable energies in Catalonia, of infrastructures, of the candidacy of the Olympic Games, which, I recall, candidatures are of cities, not of autonomous communities or of countries– of cities. A point to take into account. I think there's a basis to be able to do that. It's up to you, Mr. President. I'm at your disposal to build an alternative, because your government isn't going, and I'm not saying it, I think it's the demos. But, finally, I hope you will give me day and hour so that I can meet with you when you consider it opportune, Mr President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.136.0	Thank you very much, President. I already said yes. You, if you expected me to give you a date and an exact hour today, have made this announcement publicly, without advancing it, then you will understand that right now we will not square agendas here in public, close to Parliament's plenary. I haven't had a problem meeting anyone. Well, except with the extreme right, with whom I won't meet. With the rest, I'm talking to everyone and about the issues they want to consider. From the list you made... you, paradoxically, say that the government is not going, but I see that you participate in the work of the National Linguistic Pact, and it is very positive. You say that the government and the institutions are not going, but we could also reach an agreement with the two parliamentary groups that support the government, which are part of the government, in the renewal of organs. I think that's good, too. Therefore, from the list of themes, willing to talk about it. Point out 'no more, which is very relevant: the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the State. And who are the proposals you have. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.137.0	After the control session, we'll take a two-minute break because there's been a change in the voting delegations of a parliamentary group that requires the system to be adjusted to begin voting after the debate on the law decree. Give us a minute's break, then, and we'll get back to the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.138.0	Well, good morning. Let's resume the session. Please, if they take their places... [[Decree-Law No 27/2021 of 14 December, incorporating Directives (EU) 2019/770 and 2019/771 on contracts for the sub-administration of quotas and digital services and on contracts for the sale of goods, in the context of the Civil Code of Catalonia]] [[203-00017/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 27/2021, of 14 December, incorporating the directives of the European Union 2019/770 and 2019/771, relating to contracts for the administration of quotas and digital services and the contracts for the sale of goods, to the free edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Justice will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the word has the counselor Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone, deputies and deputies. I compare today before you so as to ask you for your support to validate the decree of 27/21 approved by the Government on 14 December, and in which we incorporate in the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia the directives 2019/770 and 2019/771 relating, as the President said, to the contracts for the sub-administration of quotas and digital services and to the contracts for the sale of goods. Today is not the first time that a decree on the updating of the Civil Code of Catalonia is called for. Civil law is the right of day-to-day – that's what I've heard many times – and in Catalonia we have a civil right that is good for life and that from the Directorate General of Law, Legal Entities and Mediation, and above all, we keep the extraordinary task that they realize from the Commission of Codification and the Observers of Private Rights of Catalonia, we keep constantly up to date. This constant update makes the Catalan civil right a right that adapts like a glove to our social and economic reality to give response to the challenges and needs of the citizenry that he saw in Catalonia, and also to protect his rights. And on its turn, it incorporates the novelties that come to us, in this case from Europe, in a very innovative subject, which is the subject of relations and contracts of sub-ministers of quotas and digital services, and contracts of sale of goods, which affect matters in which we have exclusive competence. That is why it is necessary to adapt our right to the requirements of European law, and it is necessary to do so before the 1st generation of Encany, which we succeeded in approving the decree to the last government before the holidays of Nadal. This regulation that we have incorporated into our right is better, therefore, the protection of the rights of people who consume services or digital content such as now computer programs, apps, online newspapers or audiovisual entertainment platforms. With this new rule, we regulate the obligations of the vendor or sub-manager of contents and digital services, for which it makes important aspects such as the conformity of the contract, the delivery or sub-management of the goods purchased, the remittance of the contractual shares, or the modification of the contents or digital services. With the aim of incorporating the European Directive 2019/771 into the Civil Code of Catalonia, which deals with contracts for the sale of goods, there have been changes in the scope, precise standards, such as with regard to compliance criteria, the effects of the notification, the remittance of contractors or the knowledge and exclusion agreement of some of the requirements on compliance. In short, adapt traffic and internet shopping to the Civil Code of Catalonia to give security to consumers. In addition, the object of the sale has also been redefined to expressly include the material benefits that are not right, such as the software now, and that are not expressly stated in the book five. On the other hand, in order to incorporate Directive 219/770 which regulates aspects of contracts for the supply of content and digital services into our law, it has been necessary to incorporate a complete regulation of beautiful new. Thus, the contract for the sub-administration of digital services or contents is introduced for the first time into the Catalan Civil Code, and the text of the decree backs all aspects that will allow to guarantee, as they say, the rights of consumers and the obligations of those who donate or provide the service. For example, there are rules on which are the services and digital contents of the contract, the rights and rights of the parties, the conformity of the person acquiring the service, their installation and resolution, if they are heard, or the termination of the contract, between other important aspects. The service provider must ensure access to the digital content for a specified period by means of this contract and by changing an economic quantity or other counter-performance. This type of contract may also require the provision of personal data from the person who contracts the digital service or content. Now, if the buyer revokes the consent of the processing of his personal data, the other party may give up to continue lending it. It is considered a digital service the service that allows the buyer to create, process, store or consult data in digital format, or to share data in digital format loaded or created for the same buyer or other users of this service, or to interact in any other way with these data. It is considered, therefore, digital content, the data produced and sub-administered in digital format. As much as it does to sub-contracts for contingencies and digital services such as contracts for the sale of goods, European regulation protects the consumer when the contract lasts less than two years, and establishes that the term of guarantee must be extended, as at least, to two years. The Catalan civil law, in this case, goes further in the protection of the consumer, and as this decree goes back to law, it establishes a term of up to three years of warranty without distinguishing whether or not the contract is of consumption. Specifically, if in this type of goods the digital contents are of continued sub-administration over three years, the seller will have to answer for any defects that are produced or manifest throughout the contract period. Tanmateix, the deputy or provider of the service will not be liable when the acquirer does not have a digital return compatible with the technical requirements required by the content that it provides. Covid-19 has accelerated the adoption of new ways to work, to consume, to relate to others and to the Administration, new realities that were already present to our society but today, after almost two years of pandemic, have become part – and in what way – of our daily life. The standards that I present today – this decree law and the two that also consist of the agenda of the plenary, and that we then debate – intend to bring the Catalan civil right up to date in the framework of the digital society and that the pandemic has consolidated in terms of traffic. That is why they ask for the vote in favour of its validation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.140.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to set their position, and this round of words, according to which it was agreed to the later Board of Spokesmen, will be for a maximum of five minutes for each group. It has the first word on behalf of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.141.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President. Counselor Ciuro, thank you for your intervention. To announce the favorable vote of the Socialists and Units Group to advance to the validation of the Decree Ill 27 of 2021. As has already been said, and not to repeat many of the things, but I did like a reflection that has been made, that went beyond the actualization of this Civil Code, that we all share: the world has changed a lot, and those changes that we saw have accelerated with the covid, because of necessity, but also to take advantage of this digitalization, these transitions that had begun and that have now accelerated and that will accelerate even more with this economic recovery, with European foundations. And, therefore, if it was necessary to update the Civil Code yesterday, the commercial sales relations of products, services, today and in the future will still be more. And surely we won't have to stay here, because the digital world – of cybersecurity, data, sales, digital services – will surely require new updates, new looks, and, therefore, with electronic businesses that are no longer on the side wall or the autonomous community on the side but on the other end of the world. And that requires, with this entry into force of this Civil Code from the 1st generation of 2022, so that all enterprises in the world complement these consumer rights. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the new transactions, that the new contracts, that the new commercial relations, that these providers of digital services therefore complete with a few guarantees, as has been said, of conformity, quality, functionality, installation, because we see many times that the one that produces the digital service, the installation, that software, many times does not comply with the criteria of competence, of free repair, and therefore I believe that there is a lot of recourse here to do, as also with data protection, cybersecurity, etc., etc., terms of complaint, repair, replacement or resolution of the contract, as you all know; also what we have to do, if we reduce the price, if we return the money to the client... Therefore, totally in agreement with the transposition of these European directives, the clarification of the administration and the digital sale. And totally in agreement with the reflections that changes in the company's consumption patterns have come to stay. In fact, four days ago we would not have thought that the area of sanitation would be such an intensive provider of digital content, and it will be so in the future, like the world of education, as well as the public administration itself, that it is a large consumer of digital content or sub-administration. Agriculture too: today we see that there was a grant of more than 2 million euros from a regatta to digitize. I therefore believe that this will be one of the bases on which our economy, our society and our public services will be based for the future. And, obviously, Catalonia, businesses, society and the Generality of Catalonia, obviously, cannot miss this train and this opportunity. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the law decree, as we have said. And we don't think I can process it like the bill, so it's already coming into force, so it's guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.142.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergio Macián has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.143.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... Counselor, we have already told you on numerous occasions: you make an abusive use of the figure of the decree law, you rule under decree. Fifty decrees law in the year 2020, record of Spain; twenty-six decrees law in 2021, four of them amending the Civil Code of Catalonia. Listen, in case you have forgotten, the decree law is provided for cases of extraordinary and urgent need, but you use it to pass all kinds of laws. They steal from this chamber the parliamentary action, the debate and the suggestions that we can make from other parliamentary groups and turn us into mere validaters, mere ratificationers of decrees law. You say: "No, it is urgent because the adaptation of these directives had to be done before 1 January 2022. But if the directives are published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 20 May 2019, we are now on our way to three years. They have had plenty of time to deal with this issue and to do so through the normal channel, which is to present a bill in this Parliament. In this way, we understand that we are going to act, and we are going to vote against it. And we will also vote that not because we would have liked to have a debate on these issues that are now incorporated in the sixth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Certain provisions concerning contracts for the supply of digital content and services and certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods in Catalonia are incorporated or amended in the Civil Code of Catalonia, and this regulation applies to both consumers and non-consumers, the new regulation being mandatory for the former. And, look, in this area of consumer and user protection you already know that it is the consolidated doctrine of the Constitutional Court that the autonomous exercise of jurisdiction must respect the competences of the State related to Article 149.1 of the Constitution, in particular Article 149.1.8 on the exclusive competence of the State to regulate the bases of contractual obligations which, as I say, is a competence reserved to the State. And you have a certain propensity, accredited, to invade the competences of the State, in this issue, above all, which affects, among other things, market unity, the rules of competition and the equal rights and obligations of the Spaniards. And they do so because of their expansionist and hyperregulatory view of Catalan civil law, which we do not share, because it goes beyond the text and the constitutional spirit. The Constitutional Court has recognized the competence of the Generalitat to regulate certain contracts. In particular, the sale, the exchange, the mandate and the management of other businesses, because they relate to the institutions of Catalan civil law, existing at the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution. But this competence is limited to such contracts, and of course must always be exercised with respect to the basis of contractual obligations, which include, among other issues, as the Constitutional Court has said, the determination of the content of contracts and actions for non-compliance, consolidation or resolution. And you don't always respect them. It's not the first time they've been killed by competitive invasion laws. Without going further, the ruling of the Constitutional Court 54/2018, which came to declare the unconstitutionality of several precepts of the Catalan Consumer Code, because they affected the regime of so-called abusive clauses in the contracts of loans and mortgages and therefore invaded the exclusive competence of the State to regulate the bases of contractual obligations. This decree, which is before us today for debate and voting, affects matters relating to contractual obligations. And we would have liked to have had that parliamentary debate, to see its adjustment and adequacy to the exclusive competences reserved to the State. Because, as I say, other times they have already shown that they do not. In short, Madam Councillor, because it does not seem fair to us to be imposing a legislative amendment on us here again via the tragala, without the opportunity to move a single comma of the text. And because in VOX we are for respect for the constitutional order, for the equal rights and obligations of the Spaniards. And, finally, because we are against that, in the end, there are seventeen different legal systems in Spain, which create autonomous privileges, we will vote no to this decree law. And we're going to request your processing as a bill. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.144.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.145.0	Thank you, President; Members, Members... Since the CUP we will vote in favour of this Decree Law 27/2021 of 14 December. It is a law that adapts the Catalan civil law, that sets it up, that harmonizes these two European directives and, therefore, that touches on everything that needs to be touched, the Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. On the use of this decree I read, well, as on other occasions we are the first to criticize the use of decree I read in many legislative changes that are making, in this case we would understand, given that the directives of the European Parliament are of the year 2019 and given that the generation of 2022 will come into force, we understand that there is not much impediment. Besides, the one that has to be harmonized doesn't give much game to make modifications. Therefore, the use of the law decree seems correct and we do not see any inconvenience in the type of procedure used. For what it does to competence that by some sectors, right? , as the speaker who spoke before I, therefore, is arguing, we understood that this was already an outdated debate, but we will have to make reference to the competitive aspect again. There is no problem, this Parliament is absolutely competent to make these legislative amendments. The competition in civil law, we remember, is not only about the conservation, modification or development of what was in the 1960 Civil Compilation, but it is a systematic, organic and therefore, can introduce new facts, if they are among this systematic, like this contract of sub-administrations. And that very thing is repeated doctrine, isn't it? , with a 2019 judgment, that the same statement of reasons as the decree reads, therefore, makes reference to it. As the advisor says, the purchase of goods is modified and a section is created where the sub-administration of contents and digital services is regulated and obligations are regulated, basically on a large scale, in terms of compliance, delivery, and content modification networks. And the good thing about you is that in some cases it goes further than the directive and you get it extended, right? , and warranties. And that's the right thing to do. We will vote in favour of it, because in such concrete cases, deregulation, lack of regulation, always favors the strongest. And given this disjunctive, we understand that there must be a right in it and that there must be rules. Yes, it is true that we would like to make a consideration, and it is this concern, more generally. Even ours yes, it's a yes – as always – critical. And we want to fill in this concern of the European Union for consumer protection. This obsession to make very concrete regulations for the single moment and exclusively of the contract. This need, in the background, which is always persecuting, to preserve this mantra of the free market which, otherwise, too, is unreal and non-existent, but which is always favored by legislation. Ultimately, there is the idea of preserving this free market in the field of contracting in the European Union, and also this need to market it absolutely everything, as are the data, right? Now you can sell dice. In this respect, you always choose to be a sales object. Therefore, in this idea of the European Union everything is in the mark of contractual relations between subcontractors and the consumer. It's all commercialized. And the citizen demands that the protection of material rights be used to improve the living conditions of the working class are disobeyed. All right, we need to transpose these directives that protect citizens/consumers, against corporate tripijocs. But we also need to protect the citizens from backsliding, against the pressures of the logue and against gentrification. And we do not find any European directive that improves living conditions in these areas. And that obeys a logic. And it is that, if this is done, it would consider housing as a first-requirement rather than an investment, which is of interest to the European Union. Therefore, we would vote in favour of this modification of the Civil Code, but there is another amendment, Counselor, which is very urgent, and is the amendment relating to urban leases. And this will not have you any European legislation that will ask you to do this, because it will never come; but there is a whole movement for the right to housing, which is asking this council because, in an immediate way, you proceed to guarantee housing through the regime of logging and, therefore, make the relevant modifications to the Civil Code of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.146.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.147.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies; councillor. Well, they put us... they bring us a decree that we understand is necessary. That the urgency for the need for entry into force of the 1st genera of encany is also justified. And that, in addition, therefore, is to transpose two European directives into which our European parliamentary group also voted in favour. And therefore, in consistency we will also vote in favour and facilitate the processing of this decree. A law decree in which, more than anything else, we want to highlight... well, for a band surely, so..., or surely, the good work done by the Codification Commission in transposing these two directives into our Catalan Civil Code. It is also important to be able to have a civil code for Catalonia and, therefore, full sovereignty in the civil sphere in this sense, which we also celebrate. And that, therefore, from this Parliament we can also incorporate changes into the book if this is the case. And also to put in full, therefore, as the proposal that marries on the table is certain, and we also value positively, the fact that it wants to protect the consumer beyond, even more, than, that it establishes the same directive in questions such as the terms of guarantee and responsibility, or the notification of non-compliance, etc. Therefore, we understand, therefore, that it is a step towards consumer protection that we value as it does. Yes, we would, for that reason, pose..., do some reflection on how we approach the regulation of servers and digital assets. Because, from what it is clear, not only from this decree does it actually mean that what is actually transposing the directives, so what is in the background of the directives is this conception of digital services as goods. And, therefore, as a question that can be intercavable in the field of the free market. When, in reality, many of these goods do not have such natural soil, or should not have only this natural commodity. Among other things, first, because they are not good rivals; it is to say, that the fact that I can unload a certain application does not prevent someone else from unloading it; and many of these applications – in fact, many – are produced in the Community area and, therefore, they are not untainted either. That is to say, I don't want to make them pay, but we can produce a lot of services and digital benefits from a community logic. And we understand that this is where the Public Administration should also bring, set the incentive and promote these types of services and digital benefits in community logic, which is not what is set out in this decree. That's what I'm saying, because a lot of the digital goods and services that are regulated here, in the end they don't pay us for them either, but the way we pay is through the cessation of our data. We all have Whatsapp, we can have Instagram, we have Google apps, which in the end we don't pay for. Why? So, because these great companies do what they do is to use our data which is what allows them, then, to direct advertising in function, so, as is our behavior, of which are our consumption habits, etc. Therefore, what we are paying them, the way we are paying is through the sub-administration of our personal data. And this is where we believe that the European directive and that the decree we pass today fail, in the sense that if, in fact, it is a request that we ask for authorisation, like at least, for the cessation of our personal data, they do give the right to companies, so to speak, that if we do not give them our data, they may not give us the service. And this is where the consumer remains in a weakened situation. If you don't give up the data, you don't have... the company can't, there's no point in offering you the service. And in this sense, we believe that a privilege is being given to large companies that, in the end, will benefit from these data and that leave users or consumers in a position to weaken, because many of these services that some of us have thought about, in the end, we know that to live in today's society we need a lot of them. The alternative is to produce these same services from within the Community. And therefore, we believe that what the Government of the Generality should do, beyond the regulation that is today in the Civil Code, is to promote all those initiatives that work from a community logic. Some of which are very important. For example, Wikipedia, is one of the great examples of costless community production, of a digital good in the logic of a common good, from which all of us can benefit, without having to pay and without having to subsidize our data to change, which unfortunately, is what we are doing today with other great corporations, such as Facebook, Google or others of the style. For our part, nothing more. We will vote, as I said, in favour of and also facilitate processing without the need to proceed with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.148.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.149.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I will make a brief intervention on the basis of our abstention in this proposal to amend the book of the Catalan Civil Code. Among other things, we do not consider that the content has really plausible elements, which can be addressed from the point of view of the need to articulate a legal body to our community, which gives response to new needs which, in fact, have been identified, have been pointed out for these two directives which are now transposed with this decree. But it is true that we do not consider that, in the case in question, the two elements that any law student or political scientist knows should be the one to justify the articulation of this reform through the decree. It is an exceptional measure, which is only given in cases of extraordinary and urgent need. And we believe that, according to the circumstances that companies have commented, like now the same company of the CUP or the Macian company, of VOX, I think it is quite obvious that these two circumstances do not compete. There is neither an extraordinary nor an urgent need to make this legislative change through the mechanism of the decree. And that is why we want to put the emphasis and we want to call attention to the abuse of this mechanism, which is an abuse, in short, that what makes it clear the capacity of this Parliament to have a united debate, a calm debate, an orderly debate, a debate that is actually produced and that can substantially improve this proposal, this decree proposed by the Government, which we insist on, we consider to have interesting elements, indeed, but we also consider that there are things that can ultimately lead to a conflict of competition with state competence. I do not mean that this is something that is guaranteed, but, if not, it is not a peaceful debate, it is not a debate that is so clear that the competence resides in this Parliament to legislate on these questions that ultimately affect a matter that has traditionally been considered an exclusive matter of the General Administration of the State, such as the departure from obligations and contracts. And from this point of view it is true that the Constitutional Court has often said that the Generality also has competence in some aspects of the development of this matter of obligations and contracts, but we are not so clear that this will be a peaceful issue in the coming months. And therefore, we consider that the fact of stealing this Parliament's ability to debate an issue of importance that is growing in our society does not cease to be the finding, let us say, of the damage, of the hardships that we suppose for the public debate of our community the fact of abusing this appeal. It is an abuse, of course, that it is not deprived of the Government of the Generality, but it is an abuse that unfortunately has been enormously in our country. All Spain has autonomous governments, and also the government of the nation, which effectively abuses this practice, the decree which, he insists, tends towards a certain decision, a certain violation of legitimacy, of the principle of autonomy that the Parliament of Catalonia has and the rest of the camres of autonomous Camres. And, ultimately, what it does is to deny or degrade this ability that we have in this Parliament to legislate and that should always be respected on the basis of respect for the principle of competence, that it is a fundamental principle of any right and that in this case I believe that it has been, if not placarded, required by the Government with this decree. Therefore, we consider that this matter should have had a much more prolific, much deeper, much more serene debate, and we would have called for or surely asked for a more modest attitude on the part of the Government of the Generality in this matter. We'll abstain, and that's all, President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.151.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. The truth is that I am going to be brief because I do not want to delve into issues that have already been made clear by other groups, but it is true that we too are very concerned, and we have expressed this in other plenary sessions, about the abuse that is taking place by the Government of the figure of the decree law. And it is true that in some matters the decree law works. It is true that at the time when we were living longer than the covid-19 the decree law was necessary and worked, but you have taken the direct and here everything because you are bringing it to us and you are confirming it without us having the opportunity to really have a debate in depth, to make amendments where necessary. And I insist that I believe that there is an abuse in this area and that even urgency is not even justified. When you came out here to justify the validation of this decree law, you were pleased that you have done so in time because you were able to do so just before Christmas and that, therefore, you have met the deadline of 1 January 2022. Man, you didn't have to do fast and run. You have had years to validate this decree. In fact, if we look at the processing that has taken place at the state level, because this transposition of these two directives has already been published in the BOE on 28 April last year, through the Royal Decree Law 7/2021. So, margin, you, you've had to do it. These two directives which have been discussed here also concern matters, inter alia consumer protection, and for example at state level, rather than amending the way civil law has been here, what is being done is to amend the consolidated text of the general law for the protection of consumer users by means of the transposition that I said to it. This decree, this royal decree law, which was validated at the state level, has been processed as a draft law by the urgency procedure. Because, I insist, there are issues that need to be addressed. Because although it has been said here that it is good, that this is simply to take what the directive says and put it here, which are issues that do not affect, it is true that, despite being a rule of maximums, there were some issues in which these directives left room for Member States, for example, because in the matter of time limits for the employer's liability, these time limits could be extended, for example in the employer's right of repetition, or in the extension of the scope of substantive regimes as well. In short, issues that we would have liked to be able to discuss, discuss and do in a calm and not fast way and running with a decree that, if you like it and if not, also. I give you the example again of what has happened at state level with this law by the urgency procedure, perhaps here we could even have made a one-reading law, because I believe that the content perhaps gave room to do so. But again you abuse this figure of the decree law and as you prevent the opposition from doing its job. We, for this reason, are going to abstain in the validation of this decree and, of course, we are going to request that it be treated as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.152.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Pere Albó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.153.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, obviously, therefore, I come here to express that the group of Junts for Catalonia will support the validation of this decree. And, well, starting in some way with the punctualizations and the toilets that could have been done, killing toilets in the head and in the end, honestly, so we think the nude, don't we? It is in this debate that someone asked about the exclusive competences that this Parliament can have with reference to the Catalan Civil Right. Saying that approval like Reial decreed you, even though it was for emergency processing, deserved the yes of VOX, Ciutadans, huh? , and the People's Party. Well, even though it's like the emergency procedure, it seems that when it's approved in Madrid by Reial I decree the same law that we approve here, there, so, yes, it can be done, and here, so, it's used, I understand, as a matter of form, as an excuse, because effectively, the problem that actually exists is this, that it's also verbalized, that we're regulating mass competitions. In the end, that's what he's supposed to say, isn't it? And well, and here, so, effectively, we have diametrically opposed visions. And if this is the debate, that, let's break it down, that's the debate, political, at least, the other one will be a debate, let's say, of the letters, or of the techniques; so, effectively, we consider, the deputy of the UPC has explained it very well, that the Catalan civil right must be complete and that, therefore, we can deepen it, we can improve it, we can develop it, eh? In fact, you, who are asking us, who... or who are expressly asking us, is that we must continue with the rule implemented by the New Plant Decree, which freezes the Catalan Civil Law with the hope that you will die of initiation. Well, that was over, or we thought it was over, when the Constitution was approved, when we approved a statute of autonomy, when it was the first Parliament in Catalonia and when we started to legislate. And now, with the very many involutions that this country is experiencing, surely this is a more, not less episode, so, where we intend to laminate the capacity of Parliament, the capacity of the people of Catalonia to regulate their civil rights. A civil right that is consubstantial to its way of being. I think we're all inside... For example, the separation of assets is what it defines, isn't it? In a way, our idiosyncrasy, or the ability we have in Catalonia when it is going to make a will to have more space than in other territories, not only, not primarily, of the State, even Europeans. So, here, in the background, there's the debate about unification. A vision, therefore, absolutely Jacobin of what the civil right is to be, contrasted to that which we have, therefore, other groups, which we absolutely agree on. And all folded into a battle that is surely existing, what thanks to God, the deputy of VOX, who is a good lawyer, huh? , although it was obvious..., it talked about a 2018 sentence but it was obvious about the 2019 Constitutional Court's sentence, where it just seems – it seems – that things are happening, or at least we want to work, huh? , and continue to deepen in an interpretation of the Constitutional Court in this line. In fact, you would certainly want to continue to regulate only, so, the emphyteuuse, and the dead base and, therefore, not..., and this, that we leave the civil right frozen, as claimed by the decree of the new plant, and, of course, that we do not dare to update it with questions as we are today carrying here, and, therefore, we appreciate it, will advise you, how to update it to us and, therefore, to the digital services and to all the problems of civil law that are going. So, so, I see I'm done. No, thank you very much for your attention and more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.154.0	And finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Anna Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.155.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and deputies... and everyone. We find ourselves here, we debate this Decree Ilei, on 17/2021, of 14 December, which incorporates the directives of the European Union of 2019/770 and 2019/771, relating to contracts for the sub-administration of quotas and digital services, and the contract for the sale of goods to the sisè of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Well, like I meant to say, me, when I was preparing this debate, right? I thought, well, what are we gonna talk about here, right? , and I thought, it will be more of a legal debate on more particular issues that govern the same decree, as can be the terms that have been adopted in the band that was already calling for entry into the European Union. And no, I've seen that most of the discussion has been about Catalonia's competence in civil matters or the use of the decree as usual to regulate and transpose these directives. And it is that, we remember that Catalonia has exclusive competence in civil law and, therefore, this competence also includes that the Catalan legislator can transpose the directives into the Catalan legal order, and it is an extreme that is neither discussed nor discussed; therefore, there is part of the debate that we have heard today that we do not understand their origin well. Well, we do. In this sense, it must also be borne in mind that Catalonia has always been characterized as a leader in the regulation of civil rights, with a modernizing path, adapting continuously and also, obviously, in a European framework. And so, it is felt that these European directives had to be transposed for their application before the 1st generation of 2022, the Government has done its job, and, in view of the urgency of this transposition, the standard instrument allowing for better celery and the compliment of the duty to transpose the directive within the term, was the decree of the law. And that's what happened, isn't it? , adopt this decree to establish the legal regime of compliance with the contract of purchase and delivery and compliance with the contracts of sub-administration of quotas and digital services. And we believe that this decree explains it very well, both for what it does to its exposure of motius as to its articulation, but we only want to make two points. The first, for what it does to the content, is that this regulation, as we have already commented, and has commented here on its own advice, revolves around the obligations of the vendor or sub-manager of the contents and digital services for which it does to the compliance of the contract, also to the will or sub-manager, and to the remittance of the contractual parts and the modification of the contents or digital services. On the other hand, the other important point that we want to highlight is the terms of guarantee and responsibility, right? , both directives are of full harmonisation, but the European legislator has indeed left a margin for national states to intervene in terms of guarantee and responsibility. And here the term that is fixed, the term marc was two years old, and here, in various aspects, the one that was made from Catalonia, right? , is to extend that term to three years. Therefore, very much in favour of this extra protection for the Catalan consumer. And lastly, to say that civil law, and particularly in the contractual sphere, is essential to emphasize that the sub-administration of content and digital services is not only a reality, but is the most used contractual type for citizenship, surely. It is the day to day of the citizenry, therefore, it is necessary to make this regulation, the quality of this urgency, and, therefore, to reiterate the need for this decree, and within the deadline set. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.156.0	Well, thank you very much. We call for a vote, because the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote on this decree. [[Long break.]] I see that the Spokesman's Board can reduce time even more, because they haven't made use of all the time they've assigned, and that's why the vote has gone ahead. Therefore, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes in favour are votes in favour of the validation of the decree, and the votes in favour are in favour of its derogation. Let's move on, so vote on the validation of Decree Law 27/2021. The vote begins. The decree obtained 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. Therefore, with the result of the vote, Decree 27 1/2 1021_has been validated. Now, a validated copy, also in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this decree as the bill. They announced it in their parliaments. Therefore, we now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution of this decree like the bill of law, I understand that the votes claimed are votes in favour of their processing, and the votes denied, to the contrary. The vote begins. The result of the vote is 14 votes in favour, 120 against. Therefore, with the result, Decree 27/2021_is validated and will not be processed as a bill. [[Decree-Law 28/2021 of 21 December amending the fifth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia, so as to incorporate the regulation of installations for the improvement of energy or water efficiency and renewable energy systems in buildings under the horizontal ownership regime, and amending Decree-Law 10/2020 of 27 March, by which extraordinary new measures are established to address the health, economic and social impact of covid-19, in the field of private legal persons subject to the provisions of the Catalan civil law.]] [[203-00018/13]] Let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 28/2021 of 21 December, so as to incorporate the regulation of installations for the better of energy or water efficiency and renewable energy systems in buildings under the regime of horizontal property, and of amendment of Decree 10/2020 of 27 March, for which extraordinary new measures are established to address the health, economic and social impact of the Code-19, in the area of private legal persons subject to the provisions of the Catalan civil law. Therefore, you have the word in the first place, to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated, the councillor Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.157.0	Thank you again, President. And, if it looks right, these two validations will appear in this first appearance. Therefore, we will substantiate the two debates together, because there are two questions affecting the Civil Code, another modification of the Civil Code. The first, the validation of Decree 28/2021, of 21 December, which we have made jointly with the Department of Climate Action, and which is a validation that modifies the fifth book... forgives, is a decree that modifies the fifth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia to incorporate the regulation of installations for the better of energy or water efficiency and renewable energy systems in buildings under the regime of horizontal property, and of amendment of the Decree Law 10/2022, for which are established nine extraordinary measures to deal with the health impact arising from the covid, which we would also, as I said, substantiate in this intervention. Therefore, I call upon them again, at this time, to validate two decrees of the law. And in this case, for which it refers to the decree on the regulation of installations for the better of energy efficiency, it is directly linked to the objective we have, but as it also derives from the aid of the European Foundation Next Generation, which aims to rehabilitate habitats to make them more sustainable. We therefore have a very important opportunity to adapt the complex of our country's residential real estate park to a more sustainable energy consumption through the installation of equipment that improves energy efficiency or renewable energy systems. In order to facilitate this access to the European foundation of the communities of owners in buildings, in this case, so-called hortizonal property, it is essential and urgent to resolve in time the passage through the adoption of agreements generated by the current legislation. This decree will, therefore, be instrumental in facilitating the agreements of the Community of Veins so as to place photovoltaic plates, winging skirts or other types of facsimile wingings because it will promote decision-making by removing the majority that is being demanded. It takes advantage to add a new apartment that adds to other situations provided for in the current Civil Code that require a simple majority, in addition to works to remove architectural barriers or elevators and which suppose any improvement in habitability, accessibility or security. In this case, we add the best in energy or water efficiency. The simple majority criteria therefore enable installations to be boosted to improve energy efficiency and the establishment of renewable energies and, at the same time, generate cooperative behaviour between owners. He wanted to take refuge, therefore, both from the criteria of the qualified majority, which can lead to immobilism, as from agreements voted with lower percentages than the simple majority, which can give place, to practicality, to an increase in conflictivity and morosity to the communities. With this new regulation, we compliment the first final provision of the Decree Law 24/2021 on accelerating the deployment of distributed and participating renewable energies, which provides that the Government, in terms of three_months, would promote the legislative changes necessary to facilitate the implementation of renewable energy sources in buildings and, in particular, for the block of floors on which the horizontal property is governed. In this way, there are established veterinary rules facilitating self-consumption shared in the interior of the building network, as they will be able to share the energy of different proper buildings, and participate in energy communities and also, very important, for those areas that enjoy in a private way a common element, such as a terrace or a balcony. And it will not, therefore, be necessary for the board to reach an agreement in order to bring this facility forward. As is the case with the infrastructure for charging the electric vehicle to the parking lot in the district of Hortizonal property, you will not be able to present a technical project to the community. Finally, the first final provision provides for extending until 31 December of the 22nd the possibility – this is already the other decree of the law, eh? – that the bodies of private legal persons may adopt agreements by means of videoconferencing or other means without meeting, as well as adopting agreements without meeting even though their statutes do not establish it. And the government also approves, therefore, to facilitate the agreements of the juntas of the owners, in a time of pandemic, subtended to the regime of the horizontal property before the restrictions decreed as a consequence of the current health crisis. This decree, therefore, seeks to address the negative effects of the imposed measures as a consequence of the health crisis resulting from the covid. The new text approves the extension of the measures decreed in Decree 53/2020 of 20 December, which were automatically extinguished on 31 December, with effect from the 1st generation of the 22nd. The aim of these two decrees is, therefore, to facilitate the work of private legal persons and the juntas of owners so that they can carry out their activities effectively and meet their legal obligations in a pandemic context. That said, then, and to finish, they require the validation of these two decrees of the law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.158.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to set their position at a maximum of five minutes for each group. It has the first word in place, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, the MP Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.159.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, indeed the political will of this amendment of the Decree Law 10/2020, of one band, and of the book five of the Catalan Civil Code with the Decree Law 28/2021, for the other, is to facilitate the day-to-day functioning of the communities in times of pandemic, but, above all – and in this matter I will focus – to facilitate the installation of renewable energy in multifamily buildings. Therefore, some of the reflections that I will make will also direct to Councilwoman Jordan. Because when we talk about renewable energy installations in multi-family housings, so important is the same installation as works and improvements linked to the improvement of energy efficiency and, therefore, to the reduction of the same energy consumption. What is the reality of the housing park in Catalonia? Four million dwellings, one seventy-five per cent of which are multi-family, sixty-five per cent built forty years or more ago, eighty-eight per cent with energy qualifications under the letter.E. That is to say, in terms of energy efficiency, insufficient. Catalonia's housing stock, in addition, represents 10.6_percent of the total carbon dioxide emissions to our country in Catalonia. And enhanced energy efficiency actions can represent up to forty estalvis, between thirty and forty per cent of energy consumption. With these data, therefore, no one escapes that self-consumption is essential, yes, even though, as I always remember, Jordà advises, it is not enough. And in the last few days, the government has positioned itself on other occasions in advancing the development of renewables in Catalonia. It is essential to do so, yes, we insist, we need as soon as possible a map by the Government of the Generality that specifies where and how Catalonia has to have a green energy-friendly engine that guarantees us sustainability, but also economic progress. We need an urgent response to tangible and ambitious changes. That Catalonia will not be able to do everything, no, but that we must demand to do our part because we still find ourselves far away from the targets of 2030 and 2050 in climate change. In any case, there is a vast majority that we agree to advance in the energy and water efficiency model in Catalonia's housing park and, therefore, we already agree to this modification of the Civil Code and the Decree. I want to convey it, too, that, the change we are bringing to completion today in the Parliament of Catalonia, we think that we should go along with a package of economic measures also of support. You have announced that you will allocate €32.57 million to subsidise self-consumption facilities for the residential sector, public administrations and the third sector. The average cost per habitat for improved energy efficiency or deployment of renewable energy is EUR 12,000 per habitat, and the Government has set itself the target of reaching 25,000 annual habitats. A simple multiplication leads us to the quantity of 300_millions. If the subsidy represents around thirty_percent of the total, we would have to have 90_million euros only for residential self-consumption, and you plant an impact of 32 for residential, public administration and third sector, a quantity, therefore, clearly insufficient. In the end, the historical period of 2008 at the end of the 2020 pandemic fell to all of us on our shoulders, which I already recognize, but I also believe that there is a vast majority in the Catalonian Parliament that continues to think that the plans of barrels are actions of a strong municipalist sign that allow us to develop many public spaces to cities and towns. And I'm saying this because green change can't just be the lever of our sustainable industrial processes now, that also, green change must also be an impulse to greater equality between human beings. From this point of view, a preference to associate this change that we are bringing to the end today is that the government is planning to re-convoke the bar plans and that today's bar plans have an energy and water efficiency as the key vector of these new bar plans. We will, therefore, from now on, facilitate the installation of green energy to buildings, and I do not need you to tell them that this must overcome the injustice that would be that those who could do it for economic reasons would not benefit while the majority of citizens who could not do it would be harmed. And they already know that it has begun to happen, that unfortunately the barrels with higher today are raining with much more extreme photovoltaics than urban areas with more demographic density. So, I'm done with the three ideas I've tried to move. The first, this change is useful and necessary and, therefore, we will give it support. The fight against climate change must go much further in economic terms, and it is urgent to accelerate this ambition. And finally, the rise of energy and water efficiency in communities must be fair, and it must be implemented to increase the well-being of the vast majority of people, avoiding increasing vulnerability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.161.0	Thank you, President. We find once again a decree law that tries to put patches to the sad management of the renewables of the successive governments of the Generalitat. As we denounced in plenary a couple of months ago, Catalonia has been the territory of Spain where it is most complicated to install renewable energies, and of the worst in Europe. While renewables take off all over the world, in Catalonia we continue year after year with the accountant practically to zero. But the most serious thing is that you govern behind the back of Parliament; you have amended the Catalan Civil Code three times in three months; you abuse the decree law to the point of distorting its function and turning it into a totalitarian, demagogic and anti-democratic instrument. Frankly, we are not surprised at anything about this government. In the last three years, the Government has submitted three decrees on renewable energy. The first in 2019; the second in October 2021, and the one that presents us here today. You are giving a very clear message, and that message is that the Government does not have a credible energy project. They improvise, put on patches and little more. You can talk about the green revolution, or you can bring that horrific pin on the 2030 agenda – by the way, a globalist project that has nothing to do with what Spain needs. Or you can also say that the Climate Action budget for 2022 is the second that has increased the most, but the reality is that you're only looking for spectacular headlines while giving blind sticks. We all know that 2021 has been by far the most expensive year in history, and all Spaniards have noticed it in the receipts of the bill of light. Politicians like you have turned energy supplies into a luxury asset. Families, but also large industry, are suffering first-hand from energy price crises caused, among other reasons, by improvised, unreflected and irresponsible environmental policies. This decree is nothing but another patch. Instead of promoting a mature and responsible energy infrastructure policy, they will transfer their own constraints to neighbouring communities; they will face neighbouring communities; they will replace reaching comprehensive agreements by a simple majority that will shorten rights for many families and divide many communities that claim to have an aspiration to receive something from the European food, which is certainly running late, badly and never. Totally, for what? For twenty - five thousand dwellings, which accounts for only 0.6_per_cent of Catalonia's dwellings? Anyway. If you really want to do Catalans a favor, accept that nuclear energy is clean, cheap and efficient. It is also essential for the energy stability of our region. Stop hyperregulating the installation of large renewable energy projects. In short, accept that the only solution to solve the lack of energy sovereignty is to bet on a balanced energy mix. Energy sustainability should prioritize energy security, economic competitiveness and environmental sustainability. The problem is that you first and second give absolutely the same. You continue at your feast, the feast of decree, of patches, of insecurity, of occupation, of delirium, of waste, of the thugs and of the traitors. They grow up. They mature and rule with a bit of realism. With their approaches, all they're getting is to bring us to ruin. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.162.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Congresswoman Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.163.0	Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, we shall vote in favour of this decree amending the fifth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Nor do we consider that it is necessary to process it as a bill of law. Well, we vote for it because this Parliament has already approved different standards for fighting climate change; you know that..., let's remember, on which the Constitutional Court has already passed, in time and form, the ribot, as a guarantor, right? , of all those advances that improve the living conditions of people who want to make from this Parliament. Therefore, we have a law of climate change, partially touched by the Constitutional Court, but it is in force, which has a general abst and what it is now is that we are doing all those sectoral changes of different legislation to implement this law against climate change, and so it is now up to us also to touch the law of horizontal property. As explained in the explanatory statement of this decree, Catalonia's housing stock accounts for 10.6_percent of total carbon dioxide emissions. More than eighty-eight percent of energy qualifications correspond to E, F and G letters, and what exactly fits is tending to energy qualifications of the A type because these are the ones that assume an important strain in the medium energy consumption. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce energy consumption, and this decree law, precisely, does not have the will to facilitate the implementation of systems to reduce energy consumption – also water, so to speak – and therefore the habitats are more efficient, and therefore more sustainable. Yes, it's true that as a toilet we can do at the councilhouse, it's that we have to wait for the million million rain of the Next Generation funds to make these changes, even though we understand that they are legislative changes that might have been made some time ago. It always works, doesn't it? , in the logic of discount time, and we understand, therefore, that it cannot continue to adapt the behavior of the council in this way. Things have to be done, renewables have to be implemented, because they have to fight the climate change, not because there is a rain of millions of Next Generation funds, and this is the main reason for the change, which, in fact, in explaining the decree to the law, has been reflected in this condition for which it is approved. Well, from the CUP we have always defended the installation of photovoltaic solar plates for the self-consumption, for the self-production of electricity, for the roofs of buildings, and this decree will make it easier, precisely, this installation, so, as it recognizes the proper text, solar photovoltaic energy will be crucial in the energy transition. It is, therefore, a matter of improving all this. The adoption of agreements by a simple majority of workers, for the installation of infrastructure, are already common or are already of particular use, for the improvement of this energy efficiency and for the installation of renewable energy. And that, which is interesting, despite affecting the title of constitution and the statutes, or affecting the structure and including the outside of the building. We also seem very interested in the prediction that it is related to participation in the generation of renewable energies, shared with other communities of property, or with local energy communities or citizens. In any case, we do not understand that it is only up to us to modify the Civil Code of Catalonia and to amend this regulation in the matter of horizontal property, but we understand that what we need to do is to take a step further and to dictate all the regulations that are necessary to ensure that all these renewable energies are not installed as a power, but as a requirement whenever possible. What we are dealing with, in short, is to avoid filling spaces, what we are dealing with is to avoid destroying territories, and what we are dealing with is that the energy transition is from everyone, who is involved, who is close, because there is someone who uses the excuse that with the teulades we do not have enough to make this energy transition, precisely, to promote the interests of the macro-projects, the interests of the oligopolis. And we understand that what we need is not to choose this way, but to choose another, because, at these boards of administration, the energy transition interests them very little. Therefore, we are putting in place the department that is responsible for developing that standard framework that is designed to promote energy self-consumption. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.164.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Garcia. Mr. Parés was right, that he got up, and as there was a change of deputies at the CUP, he had skipped it. You're right. The word "Mr. Marc Parés" is written on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomão.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.165.0	Thank you, President. Well, let them also announce our vote in favour of this second decree, and so will we vote against it being treated as a bill, because we understand that it is a decree that is absolutely necessary. We're also celebrating that there's Counselor Jordan in this area, and I'm gonna start here, right? One of the questions you pose in the motius presentation – and that's true, isn't it? – is how the residential sector contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. For us, this isn't the main reason, and it's a necessary reason, and I'm telling you why. The Catalan Office of Climate Change facilitates data on emissions of greenhouse gases for different sectors, and we say: industry is the first sector, thirty-u_per_cent; transport, the second, twenty-i-nou_per_cent; energy, the third, fourteen_per_cent; agriculture and timber, the fourth, twelve_per_cent; after the residues, five_per_cent, and after the residential area, a five_per_cent. So, do we have to act in this five-per-cent residential environment? Yes, indeed, but also in all the others. That is to say, in order to cope with climate change, it is important that we act in the industrial sector, it is important that we act in transport and it is also necessary to act in a sector such as agriculture, which is also responsible for part of these emissions. That said, this does not exclude the absolute need to intervene in the residential sector, not only to facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the sector, but also for two other issues. The first, to turn the teulades into producers..., produced energy. It is true that with teulades there is certainly not enough, but in order to become a country that continues to produce renewable energy one hundred_per_cent of our teulades, they are essential. And this decree makes it easier for the communities of owners, therefore, to move forward in the installation of photovoltaic plates, which is not the only element of energy efficiency, nor much less, but which is an absolutely necessary element. And the other element of need that is even more important for us is the question of the need to intervene on the residential environment for a question of poor energy. That's to say, when we're talking about having buildings – eighty percent of the country's buildings – with energy qualifications at the bottom of the level and it's that we have a hard problem. And, therefore, it is necessary to intervene to improve energy efficiency and water efficiency, which also regulates the decree, in the conjunction of the housing park of Catalonia. And here we want to make an inciss – and the socialist deputy also did it and we share it – that is to say, the need to improve our buildings energetically is not the same as everything else; there are territories and barrels in which it is much more necessary, and not all communities of owners have the same capacity, beyond the resources of the Next Generation funds, which we obviously celebrate coming, but not all barrels or all communities of owners have the same capacity for these energy efficiency. And, therefore, they call specific mechanisms because the most vulnerable environments are not left out in the energy transition. And that's why we're defending that I drop a new law of barrels, a law of green barrels, that I bet... that I carry the energy transition to every reason in our country, especially those most vulnerable areas. And that we understand is absolutely necessary. Therefore, far beyond this regulatory change, the communities of owners, therefore, are able to carry out these energy and water efficiency improvements, as well as the Generalitat acting with specific programs such as the one we are planting to direct this reversal of the Next Generation fund. And I finish, Madam President, with other better things that we understand are necessary. Deia: it's not just a question of laying photovoltaic plates, it's a question of improving the energy efficiency of our buildings, it's a question of improving water efficiency too, because we also have poor water problems. And I also need to go beyond the buildings and the communities of owners. And here there are interventions also in the urban area, which are absolutely necessary, huh? I said – we have examples, huh? –: In the water field, for example, Sant Cugat was one of the first municipalities to push an order for water supply to buildings. That this does not only come to the buildings, but also, for example, to all that is the urban system. And we have problems, for example, with all that is the unseparated collection of rainwaters and residual water. Therefore, there are better things that we should push together in our cities. Therefore, it is not only the buildings that need to be improved, but also the combination of urban infrastructure, both for its energy efficiency and for its water efficiency. In any case, with these reptiles, which we believe are great and which we have ahead of us and which we place to throw them forward, we believe that this decree is necessary and we will vote for it. And I also celebrate the councilwoman's mask, which we like much more than a mask you wear than other nationalists with certain flags. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.166.0	And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors... I'll stick to the mask now... then. [[The timer laughs.]] Thank you, Congressman. We find ourselves with a decree to actually modify the Civil Code. The first of the criticisms I had to share a little bit with my partner, Deputy Nacho Martín Blanco, and that's true – and that's what he said and, moreover, different groups have said – that this adaptation of the Civil Code has long been known, and it's been a long time since the councils and the government knew it. And it could have done or started this modification in another way, not with a decree of this type, especially by the decree... the first decree, which refers to the horizontal property. I therefore believe that this criticism should be accepted. And that doesn't mean it's not regular. Before a congressman said that we were defending the policies of the Nova Planta Decree and I don't know what. No, no, if we want it to be rules, but it's good rules. Obviously, the Civil Code evolves, and in this case, therefore, I think more than that. And I think this should be done as a government, because they're not using the right formulas. For us the change that is made to facilitate the agreements... we will not oppose it. We believe that it is necessary, therefore, that it is realized, but possibly... – and here I wanted to make a few points – I believe that this modification of the majority in the communities of view will be the only one that will, in many cases, generate more morosity, many times, and block and conflict in these communities of view, because not all communities of view are equal. Besides, it's been said here before: we don't know each other either..., this law doesn't fit the reality, many times, of the territory. It is not the same, therefore, a community of some areas, some cities, that really need these actions and that have many times of vulnerability problems, to arrive at the end of the month, many of these families, as well as to assume a series of modifications to their buildings, which I believe is not sufficiently protected from this decree. At least his vulnerability is not, in every way. I think a good part of this, say, reverse what is done is done with the Next Generation funds. These 32_million that have been announced are insufficient – it has also been said here –, they are totally insufficient. They will not arrive to make this change, this action; there is not enough, say, economic adequacy of this decree law. For us, these cents I think are part of how the Next Generation fund is being managed at state and autonomous level. We were defending at the time, and we did so in Europe, and we also did so in the Congress of Deputies, which had to manage the funds on an essential basis, and it was that they had to arrive before, before they had to bring money out of this fund for very concrete purposes, so that they had to come to an agreement, in this autonomous and national case, on which the basic objectives were to be allocated. I think they are using themselves many times – and we have said this – to do things and not for people. I think that... in the end I think that the foundations should go to people, because it is the really appropriate form, therefore, to improve the production system, to reduce the education gap, the digital gap or to get to qualified training and innovation, which are the objectives that the Next Generation Fund is actually setting. On the energy model, there is no time, but I think I also need to reflect on what we were talking about. We think it's... carrying two years without a big wind or photovoltaic project to Catalonia, so it's really a drama. And this... this is not to be supplied with self-consumption or teulades; the teulades are important, they have been talked about, and it is true, they are not so important the residences for their emissions, but they are basically many times because they can assume vulnerabilities, therefore, private, in this residential case. For us, it is basic and essential that you make a map of the energy efficiency of Catalonia, which we really know where we will act. He will advise, you and I are from the same city and know that not all Sabadell's barrels, in this case, have the same energy needs and vulnerabilities – also energy – that others have. And we know that the foundations can end up in those barrels where they don't need to. So, I think that, so, we could talk and it's a long debate about the energy model. I think for us the most appropriate option is not to oppose us there. We will abstain from this decree. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.168.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. And then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.169.0	Thank you very much, President. Very telegraphically, to convey our abstention in point 3 and our stated vote in point 4. We understand that the decree raises interesting elements, but the forbearance is derived from two facts. First, which we consider to be interesting, some, but clearly insufficient, for example, when it comes to almost EUR 34 million for self-consumption installations in the residential sector, at the moment it talks about the action that the Government of the Government of Catalonia will take. That is to say, I believe that here it is an omission of responsibilities that we consider profoundly erroneous. And, secondly, that in some moments too excessive ideological prejudices are introduced, given the matter that should be much more objective. I'll explain. That is to say, what is said to take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, they introduce, through the decree, changes that they have nothing to do with the original objectives of the decree. For this reason, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.170.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Rius has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.171.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, deputies and deputies, have commented, carry..., the Government brings today to the Plenary of Parliament the validation of Decree 28/2021, modifies the book five of the Civil Code of Catalonia. And it is a decree which, according to the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, is fully justified by different motives. First of all, because it favors the possibility that the comings of a community can agree to install energy efficiency or renewable energy systems in their habitats and buildings. Second, because Catalonia aligns itself, as it cannot otherwise be, with the 2030 Agenda and the objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations, the European Green Pact and the European digital strategy. And third, because it allows, in the framework of the Next Generation recovery fund, access to a game of aids that aims to rehabilitate habitats to make them more sustainable. For all these reasons, it is essential to have an updated standard, which facilitates the adoption of agreements with security and agility in order to be able to access these funds and to respond to the needs of Catalans and also to the preservation of the planet. In this sense, the need and urgency to modify the regulation of the Civil Code of Catalonia by means of the figure of the decree is fully justified. From Juntos per Catalunya, we will also give support to Decree 1/2022, to which reference has been made before. I would like to highlight the provisions of Catalonia's civil law which, as you know, apply with preference to any other. In Catalonia, the Spanish Civil Code, in those matters that we have competence at the moment, only rules in the measure that it does not object to the provisions of the Civil Law of Catalonia or its general principles. What's the end of this law? The Council has explained this very well: the purpose of the decree is to facilitate the installation of systems for communities that reduce the energy consumption of buildings and buildings and that the rule also encourages the consent of communities of owners to agree on the installation of renewable energy systems, such as photovoltaic plates. It does not mean that at a time when the price of energy is deorbited and affects the families' buttocks, despite very progressive governments, this will also represent an added benefit for many Catalans. One of the most notable aspects is the reform of Article 553-25.2 of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which, as has been said, provides for the simple majority of owners representing the majority of participation shares to agree agreements relating to the energy efficiency of buildings. The same display of motius – and she also made no reference to the counselor – has sought to take refuge from criteria of qualified majority or lower percentages than the simple majority, precisely because they can hard conflict and increase morosity. One more aspect that I would like to highlight is the protection provided by the law to the most vulnerable owners. The agreements adopted oblige all persons who own a community, but the rule establishes a maximum that protects persons who do not agree, when the expenditure of the works exceeds three-quarters of the community's annual budget once the aid that can be perceived has been unaccounted for. As I was commenting on the principles of my intervention, this change will result in more housing being able to benefit from support related to the Next Generation funds for the financing of ecological transition projects to make housing more sustainable. And here I want to make one final reflection, directed especially to the socialist and common companies, and more generic than only in this apartment. The Next Generation recovery funds represent one of the most important economic stimulus packages in the history of the European Union. Catalonia wants to opt for the maximum amount of funds, according to its economic and social base, no more or less. If these funds are spent well and distributed well – I repeat: if they are spent well and distributed well – the objectives for which they were led will be fulfilled. If, on the other hand, they only benefit the interests of the old, with the centralizing and privileged criteria to which the Kingdom of Spain is accustomed, then it will lose, as ever, a historic opportunity, not only to increase the quality of life of Catalans and to preserve the planet, in this concrete aspect, but in general for the others who are to benefit from the Next Generation, but also to build a Europe of values, just and equitable, to which Catalonia wanted to join as a state of full right. Let everyone be aware of it and act responsibly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.172.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.173.0	President, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, for me, the initiator of this intervention cannot be any more than that of 'we are following, completing and transforming. We follow, because this decree is not an ailing decree, but it forms part of a report initiated in this government in the field of climate action and in the framework of the green revolution, that is, the impulse and encouragement of self-consumption and energy communities; we complement, because we are giving compliments to the first final provision of the renewables decree that this House approved on 1 December, and we transform, because with this decree and the previous one we do not limit ourselves to a change of energy sources, from fossil to renewable, but there is a bet for a distributed, participatory and more democratic energy model, so that we do not limit ourselves to a change of energy sources, from fossil to renewable. As I said, we compliment the provision of Decree Law 24/2021, with which the Government was to set a three-month deadline to make the necessary legislative changes to facilitate the implementation of renewable energy sources to buildings. And this commitment is concrete today with a decree amending the Civil Code of Catalonia to what it has to do with the execution of works for the better of energy or water efficiency and the installation of renewable energy systems in buildings subject to the horizontal property. We could basically say that the most outstanding of this decree is the modification of the article that allows the installation of photovoltaic solar plates for self-consumption so that those agreements that improve the energy efficiency of the building can be caught through a simple majority of its owners. In Decree 24/2021 there is a clear bet for self-consumption and energy communities, and the Government is not left with only the words of that decree, but has subsequently taken steps, such as now allocating a million-dollar package of aid for self-consumption and energy communities to businesses, businesses and individuals, through Icaen, for more than EUR 115_million. And today we continue to walk with this decree which favors the installation of renewable energies three-quarters of our country's habitats, since, of the total number of habitats in Catalonia, seventy-four percent are multi-family. This modification of the Civil Code does not only accompany and facilitate the deployment of renewable energy for self-consumption, but also helps to achieve an energetic territorial balance. I'll explain. As you will recall, in the debate on the December 1 decree, we talked about that in order to achieve the 2050 targets in a hundred_per_cent of renewable energies we would need approximately seventy_thousand_hectares of only our country. Well, this large area of soil will hardly find space in the large urban areas of our country, either for its extension or for its density; some urban areas that, although not having space for large installations, are indeed the most populated areas and areas of most energy consumption. Therefore, the exploitation of the resources of enterprises, of negotiations, of equipment and, above all, of dwellings is key, key for the promotion of self-consumption as well as for the effort and contribution that large urban areas can make on the way to Catalonia with a hundred_per_cent of renewable energies. Said in another way, and simplifying, perhaps, but in a clear way: this decree allows, facilitates and helps that Barcelona and its metropolitan area become an engine in the generation of renewable energy based on self-consumption, and facilitates the take advantage of its available only, that is, the outsiders of its buildings. For all this, from the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, we will support this law decree and oppose processing as the law's project. And we're doing it because this decree gives you a compliment to the renewables acceleration decree. I am consistent with the government's strategy for a courageous energy transition, which bets on self-consumption, with a model shift to a distributed, participatory, democratic and oligopolis-free energy. We did it because it was accompanied by the economic resources needed to make it possible. And we also did so because a social perspective retreats, those families in vulnerable economic situations are excluded from payment. I would also like to finish a petition to the local world, since he is a key actor in this energy transition that our country needs to experience. We know that many assemblies, county councils and parliaments, in fact, today, are already leading and are committed to this energy transition, but we need to ensure that it is the whole local world that also develops plans to help self-consumption and, more importantly, leaders and accompanying energy community projects. I'm done. The energy transition will only be achieved with a cross-cutting involvement of the entire government, and today we see that it is a reality, with the approval of this decree; it will only reach the entire Catalan territory with the involvement of all the institutions, and it will only be democratic if there is a community participation of its citizens, and one of the smaller communities, the neighborhood that lives in the same building, today, with this decree, has it easier. Thank you very much. [[Some applause. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.174.0	The debate is over, so let's proceed to the vote now. And, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are votes in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are votes in favour of its derogation. We have already closed doors; therefore, we shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. There were 114 votes in favour, 11 against and 9 abstentions. Therefore, with the result of the vote, the Decree Law 28/2021 has been validated. Now, according to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, ask the parliamentary groups if there is anyone who wants it to be referred to as the bill. [[Pause.]] As there are groups that have announced it, let's now proceed to the vote on processing as the bill of this decree that has been validated. The vote begins. We have a total of 14 votes in favour and 120 votes against. Therefore, with the result of the vote, the Decree Law 28/2021_is validated and will not be processed as the bill. [[Decree-Law No 1/2022, of the 11th generation, establishing extraordinary measures to address the health, economic and social impact of covid-19 in the area of juntas of landowners in communities subject to the hortizonal property regime]] [[203-00019/13]] Let's move to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is precisely... Don't settle, please, of its places, because, as we agreed at the last Board of Spokesmen, at this point no intervention is planned, and therefore we will proceed directly to the vote on the validation of the Decree Law 1/2022, of the 11th generation, for which extraordinary measures are established to deal with the health, economic and social impact of covid-19 in the area of the juntas of owners and in the communities subject to the system of horizontal property, and which has already dealt with the councillor of Justicia before. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this decree. The vote begins. There are a total of 134 votes in favour. Therefore, with the result of the vote, Decree 1/2022_has been validated. I don't ask the chamber if it wants to be plotted like the bill... [[Pause.]] It has been validated in the total practice of votes. [[Motion for a resolution on the repair and restitution of the memory of witchcraft charges]] [[250-00370/13]] Now yes, so let's move on to the fifth item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the reparation and restitution of the memory of witchcraft charges. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win and the Parliamentary Group of Common May. In the first place, the four proposing groups and later the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene, in order to position themselves. And the time of each group will be a maximum of five minutes per group, as agreed to by the Board of Spokespersons. It has the word in first place, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.175.0	Thank you, President. Truth, justice and reparation. Remembering the witch hunt wasn't just human rights; we can't stay where they were murdered because they were women in a misogynist society, because the witch myth was much more. In fact, they can't talk about a witch hunt if they don't talk about capitalism. The women persecuted and murdered for witchcraft in Europe were trembling, midwives, healers, artisans and pages; they were, above all, resistance; resistance to guard the ancestral knowledge that connected European societies with the earth, with the care of the earth to sustain life; resistance to transmit the knowledge that allowed birth control and the sexual salvation of the women of the time; resistance to be economically independent through their artisanal trade. Therefore, the witches were persecuted because they made us in the development of the capitalist patriarch; they persecuted them and murdered them for undermining them. It is not by chance that the expropriation of the lands of the "European peasantry, the witch hunts and colonial expansion are collapsing in time, a time when the emergence of science and modern technology was "fading"; this science and technology that needed to separate humanity from nature in order to desecrate it, which needed to dehumanize enslaved people in order to exploit them. Science and technology at the service of the new European patriarch, who expands for the world his predator model without glances or remorse, which engulfs his arks through plundering and robbing, both to European lands and colonies, which expropriates the lands of the « peasantry and the witches which he condemns, which annihilates the subsistence economies originating in the colonised territories. Because, obviously, it's much faster to acquire benefits and exploit power from others than based on the subsistence work of the community itself. Let us not forget that the witch hunt was a trade where lawyers, lawyers and assessors profited, and that they also did so with the sums paid by wealthy families to free their own. I find especially taking the witch hunt to the colonies, because we often forget that the history of the colonies is also the history of Catalonia. If the European witches were annihilated to represent the anti-capitalist resistance, at the colonies the witches were persecuted to articulate the anti-slavery resistance. But let us remember that, as a labor force, slave black women were wasted on genera in the eyes of masters and inquisitors, and that is why, even today, negrity has no genera. Black witches were persecuted for articulating insurgent political practices against slave property and authority, against the rule of distribution of labor, for anti-capitalist corporal discipline, and for doing so collectively, and this was a danger to the proper system. But let's not fall into parany. Witch hunts are not a thing of the past. Unmeasured exploitation of Earth's resources centered on the global south; control of the body of women to serve the consumption and production of the labor force; dehumanization of the people of the spoiled territories, seeking to escape while shielding the border, deciding who lives and who dies, who has access to dignity and who does not have it. He tells us that the only way to repair the memory of insurgent women, murdered by witchcraft, in the band and band of this Black Atlantean, is to maintain an anti-capitalist, socialist, ecological, anti-racist and feminist practice. Because of any other frivolity, any attempt to trivialize their dead, simply by referring to misogyny and human rights, while hypocritically betting on macro-projects that destroy the territory; while we continue without reviewing the pattern of consumption based on colonial rule; while we do not review the supremacist relations with the global south and its diasporas; while forcing the child to connect with the production of capital; while the heteroronoma continues to reign; while laying aesthetic plates without any criticism, value or political combat; while only changing the form but not changing the source, you will be converting its resistance to folklore, and discovering its memory. Therefore, the historical memory of witch murders requires truth, justice and reparation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.176.0	Next on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segóvia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.177.0	Thank you, President. Sança de Camins, carrier of Barcelona ; Sança de Canals, also carrier ; Margarida Guitarda, of Vilamur, al Pallars ; Margarida Font, of Seva ; Francina Redorta, of Menàrguens ; the six women of Cabrerès ; Jerónima Ribota, the Carbassera, who we saw yesterday also the representation of what was her torture and murdered at Sense ficció, that made yesterday the special of No were witches, were women. All of the women, some of the names that we have been able to put here, and that we believe that we always have to put the names, because all those women had a name, had a life, murdered women; women that were tortured; that they were persecuted; that they were denounced; that they suffered justice without guarantee; that they accused them, tortured them and killed them from rumors, from why they had the society of the women that were different. Donations that were going to be murders. The witch hunt was a feminicide, as we don't see many today, there are feminicides and yet they are produced today all over the world. But this was one of the most common sounds at that time and the least talked about, the least ever. When children study history and arrive in the Middle Ages, they talk about the distribution of land, they talk about the conreus, the import of trade, the feudal cities. They're not talking about the witch hunt. My daughter upstairs will study many times the middle age, and she won't talk about witch hunt. And the witch hunt played a phonenal role in the mechanisms of control of women in the middle age, which were – a little has already been commented on – independent women; women who had knowledge; women who had knowledge; women who knew through the relays and plants how to heal people; women who had knowledge about sexual and reproductive rights, both for the interruption of pregnancy and to accompany women; women who might live alone; women who might have been from the outside, they were immigrants; women who had been blinded and had land, and the veins around them would be left with that land. There was also a class focus in the witch hunt, because when one of the witch hunters, who was also a figure of the time, the Joan Malet, dared to accuse women of wealthy families, then he did go after him, and then he did get started and then he did. But when that moment came, he was already carrying drawings of women who had suffered torture and had suffered murder because of him. So, also, yes, there was a clairvoyant class focus on the witch hunt. What's funny is that this subject, which we all haven't heard about, and I think the frivolization that the witch figure has made, both in cinema, in novels, in literature, hasn't exactly helped to unravel what this feminicide was. Clearly, we come to the present, and still, if we look for the dictionary of the Catalan Institute of Studies the definition of "witch," it goes on to ask: "Dona vella, letja, dolente. Therefore, we still have a definition that connotes the women with whom it is considered an insult. I don't know how many times you've felt that they insult a woman by saying "witch to say something that doesn't like, because it's binding on her claims. I don't know how many times they've heard a man say a witch. That doesn't happen. Therefore, we also did not enter with that report that there were also men accused of witchcraft, that also once more, it was minority, because basically what was the witch hunt was a persecution of the women who were outside of what it was considered to be the norm to which they had submetered at that time. And it's in force, absolutely in force that we're talking about now, because this is a repair exercise. And it's a repair exercise that, once again, to arrive in Parliament after civil society actors have already been involved in claiming this dignity for many years. There is, indeed, the campaign of the magazine Sàpiens, there are also many researchers, such as the Agustí Alcoberro or the Pau Castells, who have been investigating much to take to the light what was this hunt, especially what was this hunt in Catalonia, which was one of the most virulent places in Europe, and we also need to think about why this happened here in Catalonia. But it's that, plus, that's still happening today. Come on, we still have witch hunts. Come on, there are still women. Victimate women of male violence are also a feminicide that seeks to attack women. There are women who have been murdered, like the Marielle Franco, like the Berta Cáceres, like the Sonia Rescalvo, the trans woman who was murdered at the Parc de la Ciutadella, that surely, in a witch hunt context, we could say that they were attacked by witches, because they were also against the norm. Therefore, this exercise is fundamental. And it is very important that what the resolution proposal says is not just repairing these women and saying that they were clearly murdered and that their name needs to be rehabilitated, but also what we do from then on, as we incorporate this into the educational curriculum, into out-of-school activities. My daughter – they know I always like to talk about her – participated in some colonies where the theme was how rumors played a key role in the witch hunt. Let's think about it now as these rumors and these fake news ends up bringing us to nine witch hunts and we're acting. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.178.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.179.0	Okay. Good morning. Many thanks, deputies, deputies, members of the Government, president. In particular, thanks to the servants of the chamber, thanks to the workers of this institution who have seen these weeks as their name was unfairly at the center of the news. Thank you for your work and excuse me for hearing you question. And it is that today we are defending in this House, since most of the chamber, a motion for a resolution that has as its objective the restoration of the memory of women accused of witchcraft. When these days prepared for this intervention of this motion for a resolution, I did so by listening to comments and legislating commentaries making a mockery of this initiative that we are defending in Parliament today. You will comment that today we have heard again in this Parliament, in this Chamber, and that they have this proposal of frivolousness or unnecessaryness, which does not address the real problems of Catalonia. Those who make these comments are often the same ones that have never condemned anorreament, persecution, extermination of other groups and minorities that, in the name of a religion or idea of an imaginary national empire, the states have perpetrated at the length of history against everyone who showed minimal dissent. And before these comments, I'll tell you two things. First of all, this Parliament can and must be a referent in the defence of women's rights, which are human rights, as, of course, other parliaments have done, such as Sweden or Scotland, for example. And I'll explain a secret to them. It is possible to debate and adopt a resolution denouncing the persecution of thousands of women accused of witchcraft at the same time that we approve, for example, the regulation of installations for the better of energy efficiency or we address the situation of people without home. It can be done, working a lot, working double, doing two things at a time, which makes the women do. And, second of all, these offensive comments precisely demonstrate the need for a complaint and reparation exercise that they claim this proposal. Well, if it weren't historically correct to say that the witch hunt is simply a cause that affects women, it is true that of the thousands of victims that this phenomenon originated, more than eighty per cent were women. And that confirms the misogyny of this reigning, of this situation, of this time. An attempt at feminicide, as we would say in the words of our time. Fetillare, metzinare, sortera, nigromant, in reality, the name of witch is only a generic who was given to dissident women, to those women who were accused of witchcraft crime in Europe, who came to disagree, from the 15th century to the 17th century, with some aspects of the status quo of the society of the time. Thus, ladies, as had already been mentioned, with medical knowledge, of sexuality, remières, empty women and, especially, those women in a situation of marginality were victims of the witch hunt and the « feminization of witchcraft, in the words of the historian Pau Castell, from the 16th century ; « feminization of witchcraft, because it gives little that there are more persecuted women than men. Social, religious and cultural dissent led them to be accused of climate change disasters as the small ice age that was given to the 16th century, responsible for disgraces, detentions, tortures, and death sentences without proof. According to the studies of Brian P. Levack or Robin Briggs, two historians men, the accusations for witchcraft were catalysts of social tensions with a marked character of genere. And that is why in this motion for a resolution we are proposing the beginnings of this thematic study. In Catalonia, more than eight-hundred women are either feathered or cremated, persecuted to death. We consider it necessary to repair the memory of these women, the impulse of academic studies on the witch hunt, which gives place to the knowledge and recognition of the women sentenced, and to promote the inclusion of names of women condemned for witchcraft in the streets of the Catalan people. Who would not like to live on the street of Maria Joaneta or of Antinia Rosquellas in place of the street of Nicolau Eimeric or Cardinal Cisneros? Do it and don't forget that we're the nets of witches who couldn't cremate. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.180.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And in this first block, closes these interventions, on behalf of the Left Republican Parliamentary Group, MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.181.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Good morning, Counselor. Well, I think that after this campaign that started from Sapiens, that today also accompany us from a room of the Parliament the Claudia Pujol, the Agustí Alcoberro and the Pau Castell. To thank them from here the initiative that we have been able to bring to Parliament. I believe that this week, which, moreover, coincides with the fact that yesterday the Sense fiction was able to issue this documentary, there is no longer any doubt that we are the heretics of witches, midwives, healers and, ultimately, of all the dissidents of his time, who did not fit into that female model of abroad. But I think it's also fair to recognize, and from here the wire conductor because today we arrive in 2022 with this proposal to the Parliament of Catalonia, that we are also heresies, some more than others, of the veins and veins that they were marked with, also of whom they were persecuted, they were tortured, they were executed and many of them were forgotten. This society is also the result of this phenomenon, and therefore with this will to make this guiding thread not to hear separately the witch hunt of patriarchy and capitalism of today. This means that many of the stigmas, accusations, limitations and femininity patterns imposed by patriarchy and capitalism, such as Silvia Federici's theory – and taking advantage of it to recommend the book she has published in Catalan Tigre de Paper –, this model of femininity that is actually beginning to impose what we have today is an evolution of this witch hunt. Before we say witch, now we say female, we say historical, we say badly fucked; before we say witch hunt and now we say femicide. But this line of continuity is what makes us today, 2022, bring this proposal for reparation and non-repetition. What we're doing today, as I said, is recognizing this, that the witch hunt was feminicides, despite the fact that then they didn't entangle themselves as such, and it was because they were the feminicides of the time, given that there is a very important component of repression of dissent, political persecution, and even more important – that my previous companions have already said – of masculinism and misogyny. And it is no coincidence that the majority were women – it is true that they were not exclusively women who were persecuted, but above all they were women – and that the accusations were also held in different disagreements, not only for witchcraft issues. Hatred is also intersecting and, therefore, witch hunts also affect poor women, migrating women, sexual dissidents. But not only the vulnerable women who did not have this opportunity to defend themselves from these judges a little surrealist, but also the powerful women, as they were popular with their community, and, therefore, this system of then – and so on – considered them dangerous women. And, therefore, these vulnerable women and these powerful women were in the sights exactly as they were in the 21st century. When we talk about historical memory in questions such as repairing the victims of Francoism or terrorism, no one demagogic, no ridicule, no one poses in question the democratic memory measures, and it seems to me that it is important to know where we come from in order not to repeat. When we talk about Francoism or terrorism, no one puts it in question, in change, when we talk about witches, we have to hear ourselves say during these days, right? That what we're carrying to the Parliament of Catalonia is not important. It's not important if we, as I said, understand that there are two situations – the 20th and 21st century feminicides and the witch hunt – with two non-connected phenomen. And, therefore, we understand that what we need is to search with a gender perspective, which is to do this repair, which is to do this recognition, which is what we are doing today, and to hear that we are not so far away from this hunt in respect of the current feminicides. As Silvia Federici said – supported this theory – the witch hunt ended up turning it into the essential tool for capitalism, for the birth of a new individual who poses the competition and hates it to see over the common good and the community network, but it also creates a new model of woman – submissive, asexual and obedient – a model that still picks up. And, therefore, you serve this approval as a pardon, which gives these days the media, a collective forgiveness for all the women who were accused of witchcraft, who were tortured, who were persecuted. And it also serves, if I may, this act of reparation as an act, as a great coven that we make to the Parliament of Catalonia, the one that they deserve, for all who put the thing and, above all, for all who still have to put it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.182.0	Next, in order to position herself, has the words of Mrs Gemma Lienas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.183.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... Witches have always existed in the collective imagination; they are part of the mythology of all cultures. They used to associate themselves – before a Member of Parliament – with large, small and perilous women, everything, gender stereotypes. There are women who see suns. This is also a stereotype of gender, it is what women, at times long and often, had to live controlled, that is to say, in the convent or couples and parenting creatures. To the idea of a great woman who lives alone we must add to the knowledge that many people had of herbs, because for centuries they had acted as relays helping the parts, taking care of the evils of complaint, for example, or quenching the pain. From the 12th and 13th century onwards, and above all from the 14th century onwards, there is a slave of the universities, and women are excluded, so that they cannot study medicine, and their medical knowledge is contemplated with prevention for men. So we arrive at the 15th century, more concretely in València d'Àneu, where 1424 gathered the Earl of Pallars and the prohoms of the area and proclaimed the first law against witchcraft. In Catalonia, hundreds of women were victims of this law. The courts naturally had no guarantee. First the witnesses questioned, who accused the women only based on rumors of these stereotypes that we mentioned before. From here on, they got caught up and managed to torture themselves, and then they condemned them to die well at the gallows, well at the fire; at the fire more often, because it has this symbolic character, because it was supposed to have made a pact with the devil. Do you think that titling witch women has passed into history? Not at all. When the witch hunts are over, the religious judgment on women as evil men is turned into a doctor's judgment: women are historical, and they no longer end up in the fire but locked up in prison, in asylums, in asylums, as she passed to the sculptor Camille Claudel, a German of Paul Claudel and a lover of Rodin, who was locked up, because of them, thirty years in an asylum. By the way, he died in 1943, I mean, two days ago. If you consult the dictionary of the Catalan Institute of Studies, as the Member said, look for the word « witch, you will find : « Dona vella, letja e dolenta. Either way, they see stereotypes still working. On the other hand, if you look for a witch, you will find: "Home that in various tribal societies you end up with magical practices and rituals and administer various empirical knowledge, especially of medicine. Of course, it is quite incredible that the Catalan Institute of Studies obviously were the women, basically, the meridians who had always dealt with this issue and, in change, the titles of "legges, old and sorrowful, and it was simply lacking to add to it "historical. As we must have deduced from my intervention, our group will vote in favour of this motion, because actually hundreds of women in Catalonia were executed, unjustly accused of all the misfortunes that went to the people. At the same time, we did not want to sign it with the proposed groups to bring it to the plenary because we believe that this is an issue that should have been dealt with by the Committee on Equality and Feminism; we should focus on finding solutions to the great problems in Catalonia. We have imagined the face of our fellow citizens to hear about the witches of the 14th or 15th century while a 26.3_per_cent of the Catalan population in the 21st century is at risk of poverty and/ or social exclusion. [[Some applause.]] The face that must be made by the people who must go to the social beggars; the face that must be made by the people who live in the barracks of Montcada and Reixac; the face that must be made by the people who, while working, cannot reach the end of the month; the face of the mothers and fathers who do not have resources for their creatures, and the face of unbelief and perplexity of the conscious women who in Catalonia have been murdered seven women by male violence in a year. Also in one year, and for this reason, there have been more than two thousand complaints; that the female working population has fallen while the temporary paid employment has increased; that the wage rate of women and men is still twenty-three per cent; that the healing work still falls on women. Well, I could put a lot of other examples of why it's not relevant to bring this initiative to the plenary. We believe that it is better than to deal with symbolic questions like this to deal with actual and current questions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.184.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Lora has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.185.0	Well, thank you. Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, they've stayed to the taste, haven't they? , some political formations from the beginning of the intervention that we have just listened to. Well, true justice and reparation, as has been said, is what has to be done precisely with Catalan children who are pointed out and persecuted because their parents, their families want them to study more hours of Spanish language in the classrooms. [[Some applause.]] Today we are presented with a proposal – and I open quotes – on the repair and restoration of the memory of those accused of witchcraft – I close quotes. And we cannot be surprised that the Catalans ask themselves: "But this, what the hell is this? And I'm sorry to report that you've heard well, because this is no joke, it's very serious. Today they want to talk about witches in this Parliament, and that is precisely what they want, the Government, the Republican Left, Junts, the CUP i En Comú Puem. It is also that, in the Board of Spokespersons prior to the holding of this Plenary, the majority of Spokespersons from the different parliamentary groups present at the Board of Spokespersons approved that this proposal on witches should enter this Plenary. On the other hand, they rejected a proposal for a law of our Parliamentary VOX Group, which was registered on May 5, 2021, to eliminate ipso facto the economic privileges of the expressionists of the Generalitat and the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you really believe that what concerns the Catalans is precisely to dignify, to claim the witches and to draw up academic studies with a gender perspective on the witch hunt? Do you really believe that what concerns Catalans is that there are witches on the streets of our municipalities? Are we being serious? Is that what you want? And this is nothing more than a smokescreen to distract the Catalans from the great fire that Catalonia is suffering. And now here, even, the easy thing would be to talk, for example, about the commissions I was charging in Jordi Pujol to his witch Adelina, which is a story that many of you will surely know, but we are not going to contribute to your nonsense. And, look, while you decide to miss the opportunity to make politics centered on the day-to-day Catalans, we find ourselves with ninety thousand Catalans waiting for an official protection housing; we find 5,777 people living on the street and 5,427 living in precarious shelters; we also find a 33,4_per_cent of child poverty, and we find Catalonia concentrates half of the occupations throughout Spain, and we are also one of the regions of Spain that most illegal immigration welcomes through the miners, unaccompanied foreign minors. And while all this is happening, what do you propose? Witches. [[Some applause.]] And, as public servants, we are going to fulfill our obligation, and it is to denounce that all of you – Republican Left, Junts, the CUP, In Comú Puem, and included, yes, the Socialist Party, because some, whether by action or by inaction... – are responsible who have led our region to a situation of economic and moral decay. Because for many years we have seen rupturistic, antisocial delusions and the imposition of the so-called ‘gender ideology'. And you, the four horsemen of the apocalypse who present this proposal to us today, as you hide your shame with the witch hunt, continue to squander public money with your separatist delusions. And we from VOX have it very clear, we have it very clear what our priorities are, and they are not the witches; it is social justice, safe neighborhoods and end the waste of public money that you spend on your separatist and feminist parties that we are supporting all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.186.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.187.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit my perplexity at this motion for a resolution. Indeed, things have been talked about in this Parliament over the years... we have had to talk about things that are certainly surreal, but it is true that it seems to me that in this motion for a resolution you take the palm. Certainly, it seems to me that the Parliament of Catalonia should be a forum in which we talk about things, of course with the preferences of each, of each of the parties, but of things that really affect the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. To me, frankly, it seems to me that this motion for a resolution............................................................................................................................................................................................. The truth is that the historical debates, I believe I have believed so far in my history as a Member, modestly I like them, I am interested in them, but it is true that I find it difficult to enter into the historical discussion on this proposal. It has aspects, indeed, that are historically very..., difficult to overcome, but it is true that some of the interventions have pointed to relatively imprecise things. In addition, they have tried to establish a causal relationship between what happened with the Inquisition in medieval times and today, with phenomena that take place today or, even, to place in the Inquisition the greatest responsibility for the death of women accused of witchcraft. In this regard, I would like to remind you of some historical aspects which I believe are of interest to you. For example, the fact that the Inquisition in Spain, since we are talking about the people, the women who died of witchcraft in Catalonia and, therefore, in a part of Spain and in a part of the domains of the Spanish monarchy, tell them that the Spanish Inquisition was probably, according to one of the largest Hispanics, one of the most important historians in the world, Henry Kamen, perhaps one of the inquisitions that he pursued much less thoroughly than others the crimes of witchcraft. Surely, in Spain, deaths from witchcraft were much lower than in other countries. I also remind you that this Spanish Inquisition, which some intend to present as the bloodiest in Europe, was certainly not..., it was not so much and it was not the first inquisition that took place in the whole of Europe and not even the inquisition that affected the whole of the territories of the Spanish monarchy was the first inquisition of Spain. In fact, the first inquisition of Spain was that of the Kingdom of Aragon, 1249, and the first of Europe, that of France, 1184. The Spanish Inquisition, the Holy Office was not created until 1478. And, therefore, it is true that that Manichean speech that so much likes in this Parliament to try to present Spain as a particularly bloody or especially bloody state in relation to, for example, witchcraft, so I think that would fall by its own weight. In this sense, I very much agree with comrade Lora when she said that, indeed..., and also with comrade Lienas, when she said that « I believe that the citizens of Catalonia expect much more important substantive debates to be ventilated, which are held in this chamber where the citizens of Catalonia are represented. Frankly, what has to do with the urban street – by the way, an essentially municipal competition and not so much of an autonomous one – seems to me to deserve some comment in this regard. Throughout these days I have seen how, in the street of Barcelona, the magnificent Catalan writer Ana María Matute has received the posthumous award that she is attributed a street in the neighborhood of Horta-Guinardó, which seems to me to be a magnificent news. Interestingly, and it is already common, the person who is taken off the street is Ramiro de Maeztu. It seems to me sincerely that this is part of Manicheism, of sectarianism, of that Cerril historical vision, of that absolute historical distortion that has taken place in Catalonia these years. It seems to me that the claim to change the street is part of that will of a certain populist left to control socially..., of nationalism and populist left, to control socially the citizens and not to make substantive policies. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.188.0	And finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.189.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, I recognize that I find it difficult to get this Faristol out today to talk about this issue. A motion for a resolution, you know that motions for resolutions are usually and must go to committee, that we have them for that, but it is true that there is a criterion from the Board of Spokesmen that those issues of more relevance and those issues that concern more than one parliamentary group may be subject to discussion in this plenary. Well, we already see the priorities of the groups that support the government, also adding, of course, the Communes and the CUP, as well as the Republican Left and Junts. With that which is falling out there, with the queues of hunger full of people, with the food banks that are asking for help, with the number of families that do not arrive at the end of the month, you, the groups that are in the government, bring here a motion for a resolution to talk about the restitution of the memory of the accused for witchcraft. It seems to me a lack of respect for all those Catalans who are having such a bad time. It seems to me a lack of respect also for this institution, because you continually, with this kind of debate, do what you do is degrade the Parliament of Catalonia. And I am convinced and have also been told by other groups that many Catalans out there do not understand what we are doing here and do not understand that these kinds of proposals are being brought, above all, I insist, with the urgency that we are experiencing. And, of course, we are not going to be part of this proposal and this vote. I insist, you want to talk about this issue, it seems, of course, legitimate, it would be missing more, but you have the right forums where to do what, which is not this plenary of Parliament, is the committees. We have heard here today many things and how some stand up as defenders of feminism, of women, of everything that happened, in addition especially in Catalonia. Several experts place the birth of these witch hunts especially in Catalonia, in the Catalan Pyrenees, in the Valls d'Àneu, and we have heard a ferret defense on this issue, right? Well, I would also like you to show, for example, the same sensitivity with the constitutionalist women attacked – and, look, I'm not going to quote myself as an example, because it doesn't look very good – but there are a lot of examples: Mrs. Arrimadas, Mrs. Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo, Mrs. Maite Pagaza, the students who integrate the formation of S'ha Afinat! or, for example, the Barcelona girls for the Selection, who received a brutal assault by the radicals here in Catalonia. Why not defend these women as well? Don't go away to the 15th century. Come here, to the Catalonia of the 21st century, because they have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.190.0	Thank you very much. So, too, as they have not consumed the totality of their time, we are now calling for a vote and we will vote on this motion for a resolution. [[Long break.]] As the last Members come in, I would also like to comment on the fact that there is an inquiry this late which fell from the order of the day at the request of the Joint Group, in this case, and therefore that this delay will have a minor inquiry. And now we are voting on the motion for a resolution on the reparation and restitution of the memory of witchcraft charges. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I was already giving the voting instruction. All right. He was going to make a comment, but I won't. [[Rialles.]] We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on reparation and restitution of the memory of witchcraft charges was adopted with 114 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.191.0	Very nice late. [[Asking the Government about the labour market]] [[300-00098/13]] Let us resume the session with the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government on the labour market, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Juan Luis Ruiz... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Ah, I'm pointing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.192.0	Yeah, yeah, but... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.193.0	Yes, Mr. Moreno?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.194.0	Congresswoman Elena Torrevejano, Elena Díaz Torrevejano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.195.0	Perfect. So you'll be Mrs. Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.196.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. These days we are celebrating the first Plea of this new year 2022; a year that, to be sure, must be the key to the exit of the crisis and economic recovery. At the end of this year we have to be able to say, first, that the pandemic has already passed and that the economic and social crisis has overcome, and that at least we have recovered the pre-pandemic economic levels. We must also be able to say that we are successfully transforming the country's productive and economic model by adapting it to the realities of the 21st century. Yesterday, counselor, we were able to know some data published for his department, for the Observers of the Work and Product Model, in reference to the situation of the labor market at the end of the past year, 2021, and we have to say that the data, to a great extent, are good. And we celebrate it, actually we celebrate it, because what these data show is the recovery situation we find ourselves in. Now, these data don't have to make us forget the problems of the foundations, the structural problems that the labor market in Catalonia suffers. If we are talking, for example, about the young people, we have to highlight in denial the high taxes of the city, that, even if its decrease, the city among the youngest of twenty-five years..., are still twice as much as that of the rest of the population. Not to mention the continuous abuses and frauds that are given on many occasions around the contracts of practices and formats. Moreover, the high temporality, concentrated many times in this collection, which brings a good share of the country's youth to the absolute precariousness of work, and, therefore, also, personal, with the impossibility of being able to build a solid and stable life project. Another problem we have as a society is the situation of women in the labour market. The occupancy rate of women is almost two points below men. The weather rate is currently two points above the men's. And we are no longer talking about the wage gap, which in Catalonia is around twenty-three_per_cent, with a wage difference between men and women of six thousand euros a year. One of the main challenges and problems we have in Catalonia, which has the job market in Catalonia, is the high temporality. In fact, according to the data we met yesterday, 221,165 work contracts were signed last December. It's not bad people; it's 21.7_per_cent more contracts than the ones that were signed the same month of the previous year, the September 2020. The problem is that indefinite contracts do not reach fifteen per cent. The rest, the eighty-five percent of signed contracts, are temporary contracts that, on many occasions, become one-day, one-week contracts, and, if you're very lucky, you can get to sign a one-month contract, because thirty-three percent of temporary contracts have a duration of five days or less. Despite this scener, as he said at first, at these moments we find ourselves in a context of economic recovery; of recovery and transformation of the country's production model. And these changes must also be accompanied by changes in the framework of labour relations, so that we can address the structural problems that we were talking about in order to try to put them there. Because, when we face an economic, social and health crisis without precedents like the one we have been patenting for almost two years now, there are only two ways to approach it: either we are brave and take advantage of it to advance the country and, with this, also its citizens, or back. Moving forward economically, growing in rights and in creation and quality of occupation. And, in this sense, it does... well, a few days before the end of the year the Government of Spain announced to us the agreement that they had reached jointly with trade unions and employers, after many months of negotiations, for a new text for labor reform. Precisely a text that wants to address the structural problems that affect the job market in Spain and also, yes, Catalonia. It's an ambitious agreement, and it's a good tool for consolidating an occupation creation framework that directly attacks the main evils of our labor market: precariousness, temporality and high maturity; a new labor reform that will penalize long-term low-employment and encourage indefinite and stable employment, setting up formal contracts– according to the worker's situation–, incorporating tighter mechanisms of celebration, and where it is – very important – limited to its long-term. So, he addresses what he was saying, the abuse that some companies are fanning of these contracts that are imbued with genuine labour relations. It recovers the collective bargaining, placing it in the color of the new model of labor relations, increasing the rights of workers and workers, and eliminating business arbitrariness, which has so far meant the greatest wage devaluation of the history of our democracy. It recovers the prevalence of the sectoral agreement before the enterprise agreement. Because I should like to remind you that there are currently differences between agreements between enterprises and sectors ranging from 921 to..., a little more than EUR 12 thousand per year. To give an example, here in our home, the difference between the one that a worker or a worker of clean buildings in Catalonia, according to business or sectoral agreements, is more than 2,400_euros/year; or the one in Barcelona, where the five thousand-euros of difference are exceeded – sectors, on many occasions, already quite precarious. Moreover, with the new standard, internal flexibility mechanisms are established that replace the blend to be able to protect the product fabric as well. These, among other benefits... it's the one that came up with the new job reform, as surely you, counselor, already know. It is modernizing labor relations, essential to cope with the changing product model that is working, focusing on digitization and the ecological transition. A product model of the 21st century requires labour reform, labour relations, and the 21st century. And, besides – and not least – it's a rule that needs to be agreed, because the most stable and inclusive policies are based on broad consensus, such as this; an agreement that puts collective bargaining, the dialogue between social agents and, above all, the dignity of work at the heart of our model. The agreement between unions and employers is a country agreement. It is a good agreement for economic growth and for employment, which bets on a quality occupation, leaving behind decades of precariousness based on wage devaluation and loss of rights. It is possible, Counselor, that this does not follow the agreement desired in an initial for each of the parties– in fact, I am convinced that this is the case – but I am also convinced that in all negotiations there is no agreement if the parties do not give in to something. The opposite of the agreement is unilaterality and imposition. With all this, Counselor, I would like to know what the Government's position is towards the new labour reform. Do you, as Business and Work Advisor, give recollection to the agreement between social workers for this new job reform? If unions and employers have had the capacity to reach an agreement and sign this new reform, what do you think should be the role of institutions, political parties and the Government of the Generality? Why, can we afford...? Can we question the legitimate negotiator and not give support why it is approved? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.197.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The word has now come from the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.198.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. We have not had the opportunity yet to debate, and therefore I welcome this question, which gives us little preciseness to this, to be able to talk about the world of work and what prospects we have at these times, ending in 2021, a year intensely marked by the situation of covid, of pandemic; what approaches we are making to the future this 2022, and, in any case, what instruments we have in supply and what opportunities – from this also to talk about – we have at these times on the table to improve this world of work. Following a little pattern that you posed with this inquiry, I would also like to follow the same points that you have been dealing with. From the start, say we agree that 2021 is a year of recovery, certainly. Says the dice, huh? , say the job recovery data. Not only because there has been a downsizing of the year-on-year, but because we have been located, from the point of view of the recorded digits, at pre-pandemic levels no longer – so, no longer of 2019 – but at pre-crisis levels – so, at 2008 levels. And at the same time, we closed the year with the largest number of affiliates in history. All of this, of course, draws a picture, effectively, of economic recovery, and, consequently, of the recovery of the world of work, of the field of work. And this has been thanks, of course, to the resilience of the Catalan business fabric, which has shown this strength to face a situation that has been very complicated and that in certain sectors has been very hard. They have had to live very complicated moments, with restrictions derived from measures to deal with the covid that have directly impacted their activity, and therefore this has impacted the occupation. But this resilience has been demonstrated, the Catalan economy has recovered at a good speed. And this is thanks to this context, say, or to this idiosyncrasy of the country's own business structure, but also to the measures the government has taken in all these months. So we are very satisfied, as we announced at the beginning of this 2022, that we have closed a year 2021 with data of last better... since 2007, huh? Since 2007, we haven't had enough data as good as we did in 2021. But, in fact, we have fevers; some of them are structural and others have to do with situations... some of them are global, but they have an obvious impact on the businesses of our country. We are talking this morning, precisely; we are referring to this crisis of supply and price that affects our industry, which affects our business fabric. From the structural fables it was going that, this 2022, to the early still have 26,893 people, Catalans and Catalans, in the situation of ERTO, eh? , of which 22,290 are for ERTOs covid, still. That it's a syphire, obviously, that we wouldn't want and that dimension problems – I insist on it, huh? – of foundations, but at the same time, it has to be put in perspective, eh? I, from this point of view, should take into account that there were 172,735 people in ERTO's position at the 2020 lockout – therefore, a 642_per_cent more than now. Therefore, this 2021 the same dynamic that we had previously planted has gone down, too, from this point of view. So, we closed the year with a 25.8 percent decrease in the number of so-called people, which is a much more pronounced decline than that of the mid-state, which is 20.1 percent, and much more than that of the Madrid Community, huh? Now that it's so much about the model of Madrid and this concept of freedom, so... Say that Madrid, for example, has closed the year with an annual descent of 15.45 percent– 25.8 percent ours, Catalonia; 15.45 percent Madrid. But he said that there are structural, substantive questions that are kept and on which, of course, we are headed to act, to attack. They are a good part of our priorities. And I'm not just saying it, I'm not just saying it here, but I'm just going to prove it with the facts that we've been through the last few months. First of all, the payroll, the genera, huh? , which has a component, obviously, wage, but also from a point of view of the occupation. Today, fifty-seven per cent of the so-called people are women, respect forty-three per cent, of course, who are men. This situation has a character that is far apart, goes from far away. And it's true that during the toughest months of the pandemic this was corrected, but now we're going back to a previous situation, which shows that it's actually a structural, not a conjunctural, situation that we're dealing with. Another question – you have also made reference – is youth, huh? Actually, one of the..., in short, from the vantage points of the world of work that we've been watering down the last few years, not to mention the last decades, but that at these times presents some hopeful figures in this sense, huh? , if I may have the adjective. In fact, at the end of the year we had 19,740 persons younger than twenty-five years registered as today in our country, and it is the lowest number of persons younger than twenty-five years registered in a situation of the entire historical series of Catalonia. You mean we've done enough? Obviously, no; we have to do much more. But at the same time, as I said before, there are indications that we are on the right track and that we are working in the right direction, in this sense. I'll talk to you later, with some concrete actions that we've done. If youth is like this, the other side of the coin, sadly, is the turn of the forty-five-year-old majors. It's one of our main concerns, obviously, because it's a age group that finds it harder to find work again, because, obviously, it's a age group that impacts the most, the most, the radical changes, the profound changes that the world produces. And so, it's a collection that we have to pay special attention to, and we have it, huh? , precisely because this gap is occurring between the evolution of the own production model, of the own dynamic, and even from a point of view of incorporation of certain technologies, and, at the same time, this ability that major collections of forty-five years old find occupation. In fact, in this sense, the descent of the atrium in this collection was 14.2_per_cent; therefore, much lower than the middle. Therefore, the impact is uneven, in this sense. And, very much related to this, the long-term, long-term, closely linked, precisely, to the forty-five-year-old majors, who is another of our main concerns, another of our fundamental objectives, because it affects more than half of the people who are in a situation of the past. It must therefore, of course, be a very clear line of action. For what it does to sectors of activity, which seems to me that it is also relevant to be able to put it on the table to have the full analysis, the full photo, we have to say that all sectors of activity end the year with year-on-year decreases of the recorded atatur higher than twenty_per_cent. Therefore, there is a generalised descent. It is true that we detect better behaviour in the industrial sphere, and precisely because of this our proposal or the general objective of the Department of Enterprise and Work is the reindustrialisation of the country, not only because it generates higher quality jobs, better paid, more backward to the territory, but because the industry itself is also a tractor engine of the rest of the sectors and helps to generalised growth. So this is the 2021 picture, and we face 2022 feeling moderately optimistic. We are convinced that it must be the year of consolidation of this recovery; but, in order to be able to recover, and because that is the case, we need different interventions. On the one hand, the intervention itself in the world of work through active policies. We are developing the plan of active employment policies. We mobilise €917 million in this sense, especially to attack the air in these collections that I mentioned earlier, which are the ones with the most structural difficulties. On the other hand, we must also act in the transformation of the product model – also make reference to you, MP. Precisely, we have just completed the National Pact for Industry, which must help us to give this impetus to the reindustrialisation of the country. And, finally, we need to consolidate the catalyse of labour relations, which has the skills it has. Because, obviously, we, among other things, would like to have the tools of a state, of a republic, in order to be able to legislate also in matters, tomorrow, of labor relations. From moment to moment they can do it. There was an opportunity, which is labour reform – now I will talk about it, in the second turn of intervention – and we are convinced that it is a proposal that does not fit what Catalonia needs today, in this sense. I insist, then we have the opportunity, of course, to speak to it more deeply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.199.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.200.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your answer, for your data. I'm sorry I couldn't answer my questions on this return. I'm convinced that... I hope and wish that I could do that to your reply. I will address another topic that has not given me time to comment on my speech. Remember that on July 1st of last year, in the press round of the President of the Generality, Mr Aragonès, accompanied by you, announced the creation of a platoon of shock in employment policies, a platoon of shock that would be destined to improve the employability of the people most affected by the crisis of the covid-19; a platoon of more than 900_million euros, one of the most important plans of history that would allow to benefit more than half a million people. What happened to this rocking board? By November 2021, according to what we have known, forty per cent of the funds from the State Sectoral Conference had been executed, approximately. Surely, from the set of SOC programs, apart from the sectoral conference, to the September, from those 590 that had been programmed, should have executed about 390. There are still 200 pending, then, of holding a stumbling block or execution. Why am I commenting on this? So also, within this new framework of labour relations, I believe that it is also necessary to address the challenge of the labour market in Catalonia with an organization such as the SOC, which, as you know, our parliamentary group has been calling for its reform; reform to be more agile, faster and more proactive in responding to the current context. Just as with the job inspection: it must allow us to direct the strategy in the fight against fraud and labour abuse and to control the application of conventional conditions. And now, in the minutes that I have left, I will refer again to labour reform. The government has negotiated for months with employers and trade unions and has reached a new agreement on the social dialogue, which guarantees, moreover, a new delivery of European funds, funds totally necessary to build the new product model that our country needs. Because, as I said to my previous intervention, I know that this certainly did not agree with the parties, at the beginning of the negotiations, but I also know, with all my respect, counselor, that neither you nor I, nor certainly the Members of this House, represent better the workers of the country of which the unions do, and the same could be said with the employers and employers. In addition, addressing the working relationships of a new brand, of a norm that is not agreed, is very positive, as it indicates that the representatives, also of the entrepreneurs, also bet for this new change in the model. Because this is an agreement that is balanced, that has more protection and rights for workers, but it also provides more legal guarantee and flexibility mechanisms within the company to, therefore, also protect the country's product fabric. Therefore, it respects the representative legitimacy of which the social agents have been constitutionally endowed, it respects the social dialogue. As I said, the unions and employers have been able to leave out their differences and look forward with the aim of building a mutually beneficial agreement, and now it is up to the parliamentary forces to be respectful and, with humility, to support this agreement. Because some political forces in the country can expect nothing more than to avoid adversity in rights and freedoms – in this case, in relation to workers and workers – but to other political forces it will be very difficult to explain their position..., rather, their opposition to this agreement and their appropriation to these parts of the boards and their extension of the unions as representatives of the workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.201.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the replica turn, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.202.0	Well, Congresswoman, in relation to the rock plan, you don't have the correct data; I don't know... which data you're referring to, but we've already executed 800_million of the 917 rock plan. Therefore, it does not correspond to what you have said. Eight-cents_million of the €917_million, which is indeed the largest volume of resources ever mobilised in this country in active employment policies – 800 out of 917. Certainly, I take this opportunity to point out that they are on the march, between this platoon of rock, different summonses. Let me highlight a pair: that of young people under thirty years of age... We have already said that we want to mobilize in this sense 125_million euros to reach seven_ thousand young people, of whom the contract is subsidized for a full-time year, twelve_months per full-time, with 17,684_euros per contract. Therefore, less than thirty years...., we arrive at seven thousand, we want to arrive at seven thousand young without work, and we spend 125 million euros there. The other is the line of help to unemployed people with difficulty accessing the world of work. As I said before, the forty-five-year-old majors and the long-term maturity are a priority, and, in this sense, we spend 101 million euros. That said, job inspection... Home, therefore, in relation to this and in accordance with the demand you made, I understand that this means that you agree with us to claim that the Spanish government, once and for all, puts on the table the summonses that allow us to generate the inspectors and labour inspectors that we are not only willing to assume, but that there has already been a presupposition to assume them, and that we cannot because the State does not summon the seats. Therefore, I am convinced, at least because of the fact that you have expressed this here, that we share the idea that we must demand from the Government of the State that you actually make these calls, and therefore allow us to hold and strengthen the inspection of work, which is an essential, indispensable element, in order to fight against precariousness. Laws generate a legislative framework, a legal framework, in this sense, but then it is important to provide resources for inspection to complete the law, and therefore to generate a work environment that respects the rights of workers and their dignity. So, work inspection... man, no one more interested than us in being able to reinforce it. I, finally, work reform. You said this: the Spanish government – in this case, therefore, led by the vice president, Mrs. Diaz – has been new months negotiating with employers and unions. And I don't deny the value of social dialogue, on the contrary. In fact, we are part of a department that has deployed the Council of the Social Dialogue to Catalonia, because we believe in it, and because it seems to us that it is an essential element to achieve the goal of the Catalan labour relations mark, which is a historical objective. And at these moments we want, to the extent possible, with the tools we have, which are limited, to deepen through social dialogue and concertation. We create concertation, always, as the best instrument to advance, indispensable. Now, to the legitimacy, as you said, of the dialogue and social concertation, is to be added the political legitimacy, which is addressed in the parliaments. Or what would you say if I here present an agreement with the unions and employers and not negotiate, not speak to the opposition parties, with the deputies and deputies who will then endorse this agreement? I'd say, man, it's okay, the social dialogue, but it's got to work politically. And that's what they claim, I think very legitimately and very honestly, the parliamentary groups in Madrid. That after each vote will vote what it seemed; I speak here on behalf of the Government of the Generality, not of the parliamentary groups in Madrid, that it is with whom to contact the ministry to find the fit in this sense. In any case, it was not the job reform that had been announced, that we had scored, where the list had been put. And I'll tell him two things that are essential for us, and he knows perfectly well that, from the perspective of the Generality, it is unquestionable for us that this must be recovered. On one side, the administrative authority of the EROs, a tool that, for example, has allowed us to act in a different way in the case of Mahler, which has just been produced; which allows us, from the point of view of the Administration, to have more control and encourage mediation in shutdown processes as it has been donated. And the second element is the priority of autonomous sectoral agreements for the world of states. Precisely, if we create the Catalan labour relations framework, the priority of the agreed and negotiated here, above all the state, is an essential priority. In any case, I insist, labour reform is negotiated with social workers, certainly, but then we have to vote in the parliaments – in this case, at the Congress of Deputies – and it is the ministry, the vice president, that we talk to the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.203.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government about the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron ……]] [[300-00099/13]] So let's go to the next item on the agenda, the Dotze Punt, which is the question to the Government about the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.204.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, my parliamentary group, Socialists and Forwarding Units, presented this question knowing that you made a lengthy appearance in the late hours, but at the risk that in this appearance, therefore, we would be left with a lot of questions or even more doubts after substantiating it than before entering it. And unfortunately, that's what it was, and that's why we kept this inquiry. It is worth saying that after a debate which lasted three hours long, after the appearance which was made by several speakers, if I did not make a mistake in the committee, we had some important doubts. Some things became clear to us – it became clear to us that Major Trapero's replete had decided personally and had communicated it to the President of the Generality – but there were a lot of doubts that I will try to put on the table to see if we can clarify them, because if we are not able to clarify them, then we are engaged in what we have already announced from my parliamentary group, to a committee of inquiry, because everything seems to be worrying to us. I would say to him, and I would say to him, in this context, that, in the case of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in a way, it rains on mule. It's been a long time since the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is in the political and partisan arena; you like to differentiate between politics and the partisan thing. He told them that from the tempts, from the U of October, from the trial court, so he placed them at the lecture. And we gave them: and in the present legislature? Home, you have put them there – not you, the group that you represent, yes, Republican Left, and the CUP – in a first pact, so, to make govern, precisely, putting the Mossos as, literally, change coin. He said: "Listen, we will do this commission, we will withdraw the defenses..., we will withdraw the private accusations of the Mossos to people who make vandalistic acts. So, we're still keeping the Squad Mosses Cos in the political arena, and that's not good news. And it is in this context, from this set of withdrawals, from other decisions... in this case, that they do not come from the hand of the UPC, in this sense, as a decision that did not go unnoticed and that is worrying. It is to say, escorts, the whole set of escorts that in the previous legislature had divided into two groups they passed, therefore, the return of the Presidency to the Department of Interior, but the training of the prefecture; the laying under the orbit of politics, not under the technical orbit of the prefecture of the police, but..., to be able to decide, to capdavall, to see who carried escort, who did not carry it, to be able to assign..., to have the last word from politics. All this set out elements that concerned us, but what has just disconcerted us are the changes that you have made. Changes that don't look good: there is a leak, we don't know for a print that then confirms, therefore, the advice, you yourself, on the press wheel... It's legitimate – and so we have said – that you have taken the head of the body – so many advisors have done it... –, come in from normality; but the one that doesn't seem absolutely normal to us anymore and that sets the alarm lights in my parliamentary group, and I think that in an important part of the public opinion, is that just the first decision after appointing who is the new responsible, the maximum head of the Esquadre Mosso Cos, Commissioner Estela – person who deserves all the respect and professional consideration of us –..., the first decision says: "Select, we will cease the criminal investigation officer, Mr. Toni Rodríguez – I want to place him on his right terms –... which investigations were being carried out? It carried the investigation, precisely, that affects the President of the Parliament for a few facts of all known; it carried the investigation of the President of the Lleida Province, who at the time resigned; it carried the investigation, if I did not err, therefore, of the topic of Bombers; it carried the investigation of his own adviser, in this sense, of Councillor Buch, then. And, so, the first decision... set up there: make thirty-six changes and on the first day just don't announce one. Home, em surt l'expression in castella: "white and in bottle. Curiously, I've got this person. When there is an insistence on the part of parliamentary groups and political groups and the joint communication media... they say: "Listen, why are you doing this stuff? The answer given by the commissioner in chief, Mr. Estela, is more than worrying. He said: "For a matter of style. Home, you see, when a person is leading investigations of this sensitivity, when he has had to do something else that is extremely worrying, not during his term of office, during his previous term– things such as placing them in time–, ask the High Court of Justice of Catalonia for protection of these investigations because they pose the nose– to say the things for his name– some of his superiors and that, therefore, this may have political derivatives..., is worrying. But what's more, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia gives him this job and assigns it very clearly: "And let all these people know that these investigations are armored, and that he only has to report to the court and that he doesn't have to report to his superiors alone, and still much less in the field of politics, because that in the field of politics doesn't approach him... so all the alarms are on us. And it's in this context that we find, that leads us to give much clearer explanations, so the need to make an investigation commission respect how it all went. Because it is very worrying that a person who has worked for the body gets it with an argument to say: "It is that, well, it had a different style; maybe it has to be more coral. Home, precisely what the judge of the TSJ asks is not choralty. I've come particularly from where we're coming from. Madí predicted that Buch would pass them lean – he said another word – and warned Sámper of his influence. He says: "It counts, I don't change without my permission. This is a conversation that has leaked out of a judicial investigation that has nothing to do with this, but in any case, we have known the content of these conversations. I, out there! You don't do one or two of them...; you change the head, you change the head of Criminal Investigation. You have changed thirty-six commands of the Mosses. It is from here that we understand that this is to move to the dome of the Cos de Mossos and to the dome of the Department of Interior the difficult and complex balances that they already give, that they already see, therefore, to the si of the Government. It's a government that practically disagrees about everything, and the other day it's making the relationship of the very important issues that they disagree with. On such a sensitive subject, and coming from these warnings that have been made public, you make this whole set of changes and do not explain them, therefore, in a convincing way. Because it's not a waste to say, "Home, it's a problem of style. Forgive me, a person who has carried out these investigations, who has been subjected to pressure, who has had to ask for help from the judge, who from good to good... And that, of thirty-six changes, be the first to announce and the first to actually make... You will say to me: "He carries his natural stuff, as he carried his natural head, therefore, but in any case, it was not for reason..., nor was he subdued by these pressures. And that's what we're worried about, and that's what he hasn't given us an answer to. You made one thing clear to us. He said: "The cessation of Major Trapero is my responsibility. Mr. Estela's appointment is my responsibility. And we thank them for their clarity. We did say to him: "Home, a lot of coral is not, but in any case, it is in its perfect right. When we talk about police models... it would be more the government model, but in any case, there's all the right. The question we ask him: Commissioner Toni Rodríguez, Head of Criminal Investigation, who was carrying these sensitive investigations, who stopped him? Did he stop you? Did he stop the head of the body? Did he stop the body subscap or Mr. Sallent? Who's going to stop him? And, above all, why did he stop? Because it's causing us a lot of concern, not knowing about it. And it is here that we can understand and situate... Listen, to see, it can come to light... Count, that here the one who has posed, with courage, with courage and following the instructions of the judge – because otherwise it cannot be –, his professionalism and his professional rigour doing his job well, pursuing corruption come from there – because, on the side of these cases, he did not bring much more, and we could speak of marijuana, and we could speak of many fears in which he has excelled–..., therefore, man, that the cessation of time and time again, I understand, counsel, that generates alarm lights that are, in our case, and I believe that it is not only in our case, of the Socialist Group and Unitarian Group that it is not in the same way that it is not in the same way that it is in the same way. And, man, if the other time in three hours we were able to get one thing straight, which is that in Trapero it had ceased you and in Estela you had appointed it, we would do a lot if in this inquiry we knew clearly who the exact reason for it was, because, this is the style, but it doesn't fit. And then, next to that, man, we also pulled him back the other day: really worrying and really readable practices, like a journalist's veto. And it's not the first time that, in this case, the Government..., it was forbidding a journalist, Mr. Rius, to go to the press of the Government, I suppose because he must consider impertinent or that his questions do not please the Government. It was tried, and this generated a manifesto, a public pronunciation by the professional committee of the Catalan corporation, TV3..., trying to veto a journalist. This, in addition to the others... man, these opacity signs are the ones that concern us, and they are the ones who bring us, counselor, if their answers are not clear, they are unclear, proposing an investigation commission. Because what we need to get, what we need to get to the bottom of the truth, is who's responsible for these changes, who's being chased into these changes... because one thing is the freedom and the margin the counselor has to make the changes that he thinks are appropriate to the dome, and the other is to make a sack in the table that has more signs of purging than nothing else..., or of restructuring the body. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.205.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.206.0	President, deputies and deputies... So yes, I said it the first day and I repeat it, naturally: the decision was made by the councillor, as probably should be his, when he decided to change the head of the body when you were a councillor. Probably just like Conseller Buch, who changed two heads of the body, or Conseller Sàmper, who also changed the head of the body, because it forms part of the prerogatives. And naturally – and I said that yesterday and I want to reiterate it – decisions are taken carefully. And as I was lucky enough that you made the decision to turn security issues into a political conflict, and it's a party decision – legitimate but obvious – I've had the opportunity to explain it several times. The reason we changed the head of the body is because, in the project I imagine as a counselor – because it's my obligation to keep it – for this very year, the most suitable person was Commissioner Estela. And I confirm that and I say, because changing a person doesn't mean ignoring what happened in the past as positive, it doesn't mean rejecting the past. In the same way I say that, for many years, that I was the major – first commissioner and then major – trapping the head of the body was a good decision, and it was a good command, I think that for the time that sees us the most suitable person is Commissioner Estela. And that's the reason I did it, based on a lot of things. And frivolity about a matter and the barrier – and it does it expressly, because you know it –..., when I say about the styles of rule and the styles of leadership. There aren't many, and surely every head deserves its own. And when I made reference to the style of governance and I think that the co-operative style and the more horizontal style and the territorial focus of the Squadre Mosso Cos, in a growth of eight to ten thousand moves that will grow in these own two years..., was the appropriate person, in Josep Maria Estela..., now barred me with the decision, that I tell him that it was Commissioner Estela, to change the head of the Commission of Inquiry. But if he said so, because it's him, who's responsible for deciding the changes. As was the case with Major Trapero, who for one year decided sovereignly, freely, to change the head of the Commission of Inquiry three times. And despite what was done in a time..., including in a time after the elections of February 14, no one came to question obscure and hidden reasons as you are doing permanently, implying connivance with corruption. Miri, when you changed four people when you were advisor to the General Investigation Commissioner, when you sent him to Girona at number two, no one thought it was because you wanted to store corruption questions from your party abroad, for example. Among other things, because the Squad Cushion investigations are very armored. And all that you're referring to, research... knows more than the political leaders of the department, it seems to be, because we're not the political leaders, and often the commands don't interfere with investigations. And when you're referring to this type of information or request from the emperor... it's not in the department. And I'm not saying they don't exist; I'm saying they just don't consist of the department, because it's a relationship between the investigator and the judge, and so they don't consist of the department. What I did say very clearly is that when someone is responsible, some command that they don't correspond to, some political leader who puts his hand in an investigation, the type that follows, will be discontinued for this counselor. And from this you can have the absolute guarantee – the absolute guarantee. Because the issues of corruption are especially sensitive, and that is why we have taken a set of measures. In the first place, increase the staff of the commissioner who is destined..., the part, let's say, that is destined to fight against corruption, because it is fundamental, because it is the most tiring of corruptions, because it is the one that tempts against the worst against which it is able to tempt, that is the trust of the people. Days have passed systematically implying that there is an operation to cover corruption. And look, that's why I don't accept any lessons, and you don't, either, because it seems absolutely intolerable to me. It seems absolutely intolerable and very much pernicious to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Very dangerous. And very unfair; very unfair with those who were and very unfair with those who are. The General Information Commissioner, like the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, is not a person; there are hundreds of professionals who work day by day fighting against organized crime. Every day. Every minute. With extraordinary honesty. He's not a person. And who replaces in these moments what was up to now as responsible, as the intendant responsible for the General Information Commissioner, is his second, the person he trusted, and..., in fact, surely should be his trusted person, because he was his second. And what replaces the second is another person from the Commissioner General of Investigation. And you know that. And they know perfectly well that this show that they're putting together is a fiction of their party to serve only political propaganda, because between the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad [[some applause]] ...from the Sea of Mossos d'Esquadra is living with absolute normality. And I told them: I don't use organizations to serve my interests. The other day the major commanding trade union spoke very clearly, and said: a, those who had so far been very good professionals; well, the changes are absolutely normal, usual and have always passed, and three, the current ones responsible for all the commissariats are also huge professionals. I'm no longer using the Squad's Mossos Cos to serve partisan tactics. Miri, you've made two references to the bescanvi about issues of Squad Mossos between political parties. It is not a beast, it is not... It is absolutely normal, reasonable, that the policy of security and the political orientation of security policies follow the object of parliamentary debate and parliamentary agreements. Not with what? Naturally yes – naturally yes. Because this Squad mossos thing is subdued to the sovereignty of this Parliament and the government, and, naturally, like the police, prosecutors and judges. I'd just miss it – I'd just miss it. And as much as we guarantee, and as much as it's guaranteed, and as much as it knows it's guaranteed, with the professionals we have. So, please, stop playing with everything folded. And besides, they know hard, some statements he makes, because he makes them know they're not true. Look, he made reference to the escorts, the escort division, which went to the general direction. But you know perfectly well who decides who has and who has no escort and what size the Information Commissioner is. It's always been that way, and it's still that way, but they always want to put the suspicion of respect for use and political manipulation. And it doesn't have to be so scandalized, because yesterday he spoke the spokesman of his group directly of connivance with corruption, which seems to me a shame – a shame – and more coming from you. Finally, I don't have any more time. I would also like to talk about another issue linked to the "bescanvis – which you say – policies, which is about legal defense, respect which they have also made a lot of demagogic, and then I will explain it to you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.207.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.208.0	Counselor: Let's learn, we don't accept any. And he can't go up here to the rostrum and say so, so frivolously: "Listen, it's not in the vein and in the political dialogue. Miri, the agreement that gives genius to the government is an agreement between the Republican Left and the CUP – which, of course, its current members interpret as a pressure on them – in which it is said: "They will withdraw the particular accusations to those people who make aldarulles and who may have injured police..., they will withdraw them; such things they signed and such things have done. "They will not deal with the..., "They will not do the defenses of the squadron moves that have been seen accused in public contexts, and so they have done. That's what you did. "They will create a parliamentary commission..., here we tried to make contributions and some we did, and we would participate, but that is three questions of partisan pact to give little to a government. It's from this perspective, that we say that this has to do with the boulder and use the Squadron Stitch as the currency of change. Or isn't that right, Counselor? [[The timer laughs.]] Or isn't that it? You didn't wear it on your show. He was just carrying the CUP, and, look, now you've taken over, and the Junts have somehow taken over. [[Some applause.]] Escorts, if the decision is in the police field – I forgive the expression, but... –, why do they depend on the general direction? Why? Why? So far the general direction only depends on one thing, that to all the democratic polices of the world in question: internal matters. Naturally, they must be outside the police prefecture to investigate their own police, and, if you want, some questions related to institutional relations. But a thing of... what are they? , 250, 300 or 160– I don't know, I don't know how many are – escorts, why should they depend on a general direction, curiously after a very lengthy controversy? That's partying – that's partying. And we do not accept any accusation of saying: "Listen, you are trying to put shadows of suspicion. Who puts the shadows of suspicion... is that, when a change is announced, the first one that is made is to cease a concrete person, who, alas! Well, curiously enough, he was carrying extremely sensitive cases. And you said to us, "Look, I didn't do it, but I did it... Sometimes you have a feeling... And that's why I asked him the other day in committee: "Look, who's going to be here? So maybe it's that you're not at all in your own department; maybe the conclusion of the other day... Listen, you've put your head in it, but there are no others who do and unravel between the body on the basis of difficult balances, complex balances, which are obviously in the government, but they've moved into the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. And what he can't say is that we use it in a partisan way. This is a matter of concern to the citizenry. Clearly concerned: public order is concerned, police authorities are concerned; the permanent heights of the Meridian are concerned, because many people are concerned; the non-decisions, many times, of the department are concerned; the decisions are very conditioned from a very determined and little objective political point of view are concerned; the failure to deal with parliamentary acts is concerned. Many things are concerned that are not the result of the perverse imagination of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, which claim I do not know what things. I told him about the real thing. The escorts have gone from depending on the prefecture to the general direction, yes or no? Police defenses have withdrawn, yes or no? Private charges have withdrawn, yes or no? The commission that wanted the CUP was done, yes or no? The cessation of the maximum criminal investigation officer who worked in sensitive cases like the ones I've mentioned before and who didn't think I repeated why everyone has enough to retina...? Did they stop it, yes or no? At first change, as the first decision, as the first decision makes in this sense the new head of the Cos de Mossos. So, man, counselor, it's not a waste, the answer she gives us. And it's not worth coming here... : « Listen, it's that you're making a policy..., « They're interested in having these themes about the... I've talked about objective decisions. I have spoken to him of decisions, all of them, objective, which he has taken or which he has taken for you, in the case of some cessation, as he has just said; listen to me, some medium already said... But I celebrate, as a minimum, this inquiry, because we have made clear by his mouth..., some medium said: "It has disbanded from the cessation of the Head of Criminal Investigation. And if you ever have an interest – really, huh? , counselor– to talk about the cessations that had taken place– I left the department seven years ago– at the time I was in the department..., delighted with life. Let them ask me a question and we will discuss that if the name of the Traper was opportune or not opportune or whatever it is. What I do know is that it generated a breue in a mean time, and, I confess, because I asked for it to be fessin' about a major change, which was the head of the police. And that's the most normal thing for the police. [[some applause]] This is the best that can be passed on to the police, that their adviser will almost have to ask for: « Home, step back, that now this lord is the head. And I am not aware, therefore, of any strange movement for those who have been taken, which with all normality has been integrated, certainly, with the same police, which seems to me not to be happening now. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.209.0	And finally, at the turn of the line, the inside counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.210.0	Well, you will continue to insist that the investigations were carried only by one person and the rest of the department... of the Commissioner General of Investigation did nothing at all. I still made a bad person out of it. And he fancied it so that he could make this permanent speech of insinuations and falsehoods that are all absolutely intolerable to the counselor–but that's the same–..., but for the Squad Mosos Coss. So it seems to me that there is no opposition. And surely, if at the time it was only a brevity because there was no such irresponsible opposition in this land as you exercised. [[Some applause.]] He talked about defenses. [[Several of you see the councilman incredulous.]] He talked about defenses. He talked about defenses. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] They've changed a lot, that's got to be it. They've been talking about defenses. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] They've been talking about defenses. One question: Ertzaintza does not accuse. I know. Ertzaintza does not charge for injuries. And there they rule. And there you are not leaving the forts, your government, the government in which you give support and in which you participate? [[Pause.]] Here he is still defending the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and his agents with the generalities, whenever there are injuries. Do you know how? As does the Government of the State, through the Law of the State, with the National Police Cos. But that's not what they're saying either, because it's bursing and bursing and bursing to give the feeling that there are some wicked gentlemen who have agreed with this government and who want to go against the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squads. I repeat: the legal defense that the Government of the Generality does in the Mossos d'Esquadra is the same as the Government of the State with the National Police Cos, and superior to the one that the Ertzaintza does... – sorry –, the Basque Government with the Ertzaintza. But that's certainly not to bechanish... a change of heart. Like, for example, the commission. It systematically refers to the commission as something perverse. Is it to say, what is discussed about the police model in this Parliament is also a strange conspiracy between the People's Unity Candidacy and this government? On the contrary, it is talking about public security, which is one of our obligations as Members, and directing public security, which is one of my obligations as a counselor. I repeat: the decision that we are about, and that this councillor has, has been based on a model, on a path and a horizon where I think the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra should go, and also on a model and a way of governing it that I think is the most appropriate way from now on. We have appointed these commands, and it is the prefecture, as always, that has the responsibility, as always, to appoint the remaining agents. He says we've made it clear today. But if we have said this since the first day: who makes the appointments and who does not make them, who has appointed the head of investigation or who has appointed the head of the Csucot, or who has appointed the head of the territory, or who has appointed the head of the Commissariat of Ebra or Tarragona. So the head of the body, naturally. And so he showed it from the first day, because it's his obligation and because he has the autonomy to do it. Certainly, how did the previous head of the body do the last year, this last year, changing the sixty_per_cent of the commands of the body. Legitimately, because he was on his right, and surely he was on his obligation to sort out the people he considered most appropriate. Yesterday I explained many things, some related to armoring on corruption issues, others on women's issues, others on territorial issues. We have the opportunity to continue working this way. We have the opportunity to continue shooting at the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra..., with interested supporters from one group to another, or to talk and discuss and debate politically, in the mark we have donated to us, which is to the Commission of Study of the Police Model and also in this Parliament and the Commission of Interior, on the future of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. This is my will, and I think I've exercised it since the first day. And despite the fact that it seems to me that they are having or have had in this matter a behavior that I, respectfully, call irresponsible, I am absolutely open to continue working in this way to the service of something very high, which is the Squad Coast of our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.211.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the exercise of the competence of public security]] [[300-00101/13]] Let us move on to the next item, the question to the Government on the exercise of the competence of public security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.212.0	Thank you, President. The Spanish Government, in accordance with the Constitution, has exclusive competence in the matter that concerns us, in the field of public security, although the Spanish Constitution itself provides that this competence may also be exercised by the autonomous communities, in accordance with their respective statutes of autonomy and the legal order of application. In the case of the Catalan Autonomous Community, the Government of the Generalitat, in accordance with the framework of powers established by the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the legislation in force, has the function of protecting the free exercise of rights and freedoms and of guaranteeing citizens' security. This governmental function is exercised through the department of which you, Councilor Elena, hold the Department of the Interior. It is therefore up to the Government of the Generalitat, you, as the Councillor of the Interior, not only to ensure that citizens as a whole can exercise their rights fully and freely, but also to maintain and guarantee peaceful coexistence and the protection of individuals and their property. All this, in accordance with the legal order, and, where necessary, under the supervision of the courts. At this point, it is very likely – I hope so – that the Home Secretary will at least share with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group that public security is an essential service that the governments concerned must provide to all citizens. All of us, and of course the members of the Government of the Generalitat and all of the civil servants and workers of the public administrations, are public servants. We must bear in mind what is important: public servants in the service of the citizenry, in the service of each and every one of our fellow citizens. It is our obligation and our responsibility. A responsibility, counselor, which, in the opinion of my parliamentary group, is particularly relevant when we talk about essential services, such as public security. I mean with that, Mr. Elena, that the political leaders, whatever their party card, are and must..., we are and must behave ourselves as public servants in the exercise of government functions especially. I would like to say to you, Counsellor, that the Government of the Generalitat, in the exercise of its governmental functions, is or should be at the service of each and every Catalan citizen. It may seem unnecessary to you, the reference that the Government should be at the service of each and every citizen, but I assure you that, today, much of Catalan citizenship casts doubt on it. And, of course, listening to many of the members of the Government of the Generalitat and of the parties that support it, there are no lack of reasons. Because a fundamental premise, essential for a democratic government to be at the service of all citizens, at the service of each and every citizen on whom it exercises its governmental role, is scrupulous respect for the democratic system and the legal framework in force. And that, counselor – I think you will not be able to deny – is not the case on many occasions with the Government of the Generalitat. When the President of the Generalitat himself and some of his advisers publicly declare that they are not going to respect the democratic framework and that they do not comply with the judgments of the courts that directly affect them, the message is clear: they govern only for those on his rope, they govern only for those who support them in their sterile challenge to the constitutional democratic order. This is the case of your Government, of the Government to which you belong, as has been the case of the governments of the Generalitat during at least the previous three legislatures. The Government is not dedicated to governing for all Catalans, but to dividing and confronting them, prioritizing its anti-democratic struggle against the social and democratic rule of law, and leaving aside the general interest and its obligation to be at the service of each and every citizen outside the partisan interest. It is clear that a democratic government can obey party mandates reflected in programmatic proposals and carry out its political action with the intention that these proposals will be faithfully reflected in its government work, but always on the premise that it is a democratic government, that is, that it acts at all times in accordance with democratic rules. What any government that wants to call democratic cannot do is not respect democratic order and the legal framework. What no democratic government can do is what the Government of the Generalitat, who led the fugitive Puigdemont, did: to strike democracy and pretend to go on with his rositas, to proclaim his own, let us call the « enabling laws breaking the rules of the democratic game in the eyes of all and to pretend that his anti-democratic misappropriation has no consequences. What should not be done by any government that wants to call it democratic is to use democratic institutions, which are of all, for the sole benefit of its party interest. And to a large extent that is precisely what the successive governments of the Generalitat have been doing, in a very special way since Arthur Mas began the subversive process from within the institutions that has given rise to the infamous separatist process that they have intended to impose on us all and that they claim to come out for free. It has been heard in this Parliament for years that 'policy must not be judicialised at the same time as those who more often repeat it make more efforts to be subject to jurisdiction, to the action of the courts, for their infamous disregard for the laws and the courts. No one, but especially the public servants, those responsible for public administrations, is above the laws and democratic order. The game of politics is illegitimate outside the law, as are many other activities in our society. The play of politics within or outside institutions is especially illegitimate outside the law. Those who judicialize politics are those who put themselves out of the law in the exercise of politics. Judges and courts, in any social and democratic state of law, simply fulfil their jurisdictional role. And, with regard to the exercise of public security competence, you know that legitimate political action is not the one that seeks to shape the security forces in the service of a cause or in the service of partisan interests. Security forces and bodies are by and for citizens; they are not at the service of the established power, they are at the service of citizens within the scrupulous respect of democratic order. But the successive governments of the Generalitat, especially since Mr. Mas went to the mountain and started this trip nowhere where he intended to embark us all Catalans, have given ample evidence to claim control of the Mossos d'Esquadra through his leadership dome. The process of selection and designation of the command dome is one more of the opaque procedures used by separatism in its government action. This chronic lack of transparency is, at least, a source of mistrust. A distrust that increases when it comes to the light that in the field of Democratic Convergence – what has now become this diverse conglomerate that has gathered some of the most acerress separatists called ‘Joints per Catalunya – lists and classifications of the high leaders of the Mosos have been made according to their ideology, their regionalist patriotism and their commitment to the separatist cause, in addition to other classifications for different reasons that little or nothing say in favor of those who elaborated them. The distrust towards the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps of many Catalan citizens increased during the months leading up to the September and October 2017 coup to democracy, and perhaps in a special way due to the actions of many agents of the body during the October 1 mask. This distrust was the result not only of the ambiguous positioning of the then chief operating officer of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the greatest Trapero, and of his scant – at least in appearance – collaboration with those responsible for other security forces and bodies and even of the same prosecution, but also and especially of the clear positioning of the interior adviser, Mr.Forn, and of his political leadership regarding the preparations and execution of the coup against democracy that they carried out on those dates. The separatist party politics has done much damage to the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. You demand the opposition parties to leave the Mossos out of politics, while using them torturingly for their own political benefit. That is so, apart from the law and against the democratic order to which all public servants – you too – owe and have an obligation to respect and defend. You have politicized the main police force that guarantees Catalans public security and the free exercise of their rights, and it seems you intend to continue to do so. And it seems that they intend to continue doing so because you, in your appearance on Monday, were unable to explain why the apparent purge they have carried out, and besides Republican Left again criticized the opposition work for allegedly using the Mossos politically.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.213.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.214.0	President, Members, Members... Deputy Matías Alonso, the truth is that he was not prepared to make a general policy debate. And I didn't say ironically, did I? , but..., I have the perception that his intervention is his political programmer, absolutely respectable, in relation to so many things that he has proposed to us today. And let's start by telling him that many of the things he said at the beginning I share. I was wondering, would you say, if..., "you had to share it. So yes, some people share them; starting with the first one he said, that it seems to me that it's very and very relevant, that it's a public service, right? And that where there was no public safety there's the save's here. And usually the most powerful are saved. And usually the ones who end up losing are the weakest people and the most vulnerable. Therefore, yes, I have always thought that security policy is a social policy, because above all it benefits and is and must serve the most vulnerable. I tried to work for the company's joint venture; with 55,000 daily defects I'm sure they could find me, but I tried to work for the company's joint venture. When I think of security policies..., when I think of Manresa and the Tremall platform and the joint arrangements that we work together with the local police and the local police, I assure you that I think – I say it honestly – of the townspeople of Manresa; when we speak to Barcelona, with the commissioner and with the intendant in the city's head, about the devices in so many barrels with difficulty, I assure you that I think of the town's joint. Because, effectively, security policy is the guarantee of rights and freedoms. And, yes, so is the cohabitation. Because without security, without a policy of security, I repeat, there is barbarism, and there is no coexistence. Security policy is to ensure coexistence; it is to say, to guarantee the rights of one and the other. It's true that each one has its own look and its own accent. And I understand, because we have had the opportunity to debate it on various occasions, that on many aspects we have different views and views. And that's why I always defend that there is a political focus and a political orientation in security policy; naturally there is. And that's why I defend that prevention and mediation must be the ones that preside over all police action, and that we need to work more in this sense and that we need to go deeper in this sense. That's why I'm particularly concerned about making policies for victims, for example, in the case of masculinist rapes or hate crimes, and in so many other crimes. When I think of a policy of security and I think of the need to fight and fight against marijuana and all the crime surrounding this organized crime; when we organize ourselves with the other elements of security at the level of the Spanish State and at the international level; when one of our heads of investigation – in this case the head of criminal investigation, an intendant of the Mossos Cos d'Esquadra – joins, in the state sphere, in the group of experts to fight marijuana, we are thinking of the country's joint. And, therefore, I do not want to move away from here, because I try, from my responsibility as advisor to all Catalans and Catalans, not to enter into the sterile confrontation about political considerations that has been made about policies or actions, etc. It's obvious, my political orientation, my thinking, my feeling. But, I repeat, I am here today as an Inner Counselor, and as an Inner Counselor I am undermining my commitment to work for the safety of all Catalans and Catalans. We sort the head of the body as the Government of the State does; we sort the head of the body as all the counselors have done; we sort the head of the body as practically all the police: the tria a person who has been democratically chosen to take responsibility for the security of his country. And Minister Marlaska does it, and Councilman Elena does it, and Vice-President of the Basque Government, who is also a Councillor of the Interior, does it. This is legit, isn't it? Presuming that all the names you are making have a partisan orientation to me seems to me to be missing not only from the truth, but also from the respect of a body, that of Mossos d'Esquadra, of people who each thinks as it seems. In me you will not find – we know each other a few years ago – partisan sectarianism; yes, political – yes, political; yes, political opinion; yes, political orientation. He'll never find partisan sectarianism, because he's in Angola, directly. And he won't find it in my decisions to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad But I'll say more: I don't think it's in the relationship with opposition groups either. Because it seems to me that, in this sense, despite the differences, the understanding that I have had of fluid and permanent communication with all of you and information about everything that you have asked me to endorse. Therefore, I deny the major, and it is there that there is a counselor, a government, who is in the service of partisanly manipulating the Mossos d'Esquadra Cos; but to work in a certain orientation – and I have said it many times –; yes – perhaps in this discrepancy; I do not know, because we have not talked about this – in feminizing the Mossos d'Esquadra Cos; but to specifically guide us towards its territorialization; but to invest more, because for many years there has been a disinversion, which is the best guarantee because the Mossos d'Esquadra Cos can serve more and better at the conjunction of citizens; but to put the emphasis on mediation and prevention. Yes, that's all; there's an orientation, a political orientation. But let us not confound, and I am never tired of saying it – I am never tired of saying it – political orientation with party perversion. And in this one, they won't find me. With regard to other considerations, I think it would be counterproductive that I have now come to discuss his respect for the '1st of October, my..., because it would not only be inappropriate at this time, but above, because it is perfectly well-known his, it is perfectly well-known my, it is perfectly well-known to all, let's say, the one we have all the deputies, deputies and government of this country. Therefore, from this point of view, at your disposal if there was any more concrete question that you wanted to comment on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.215.0	To answer, has the word now, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.216.0	Yes; Councillor Elena, we are not talking about your talent, but the reality is that you have made a drastic change in the dome of the Mossos and on Monday you intended to justify what in the increase in the number of staff, in the implementation of early retirement, in which you intend, as you have repeated, to increase the presence of women and in which you want to improve and consolidate the confidence for the dialogue with other institutions. But on Monday he focused, casually, above all on justifying the purge of the head of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation. His approach may convince his political correspondents; the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group certainly does not convince us. The need to consolidate, to regain the confidence of the interlocutors of the Mossos in other institutions of the State, of the other security forces and bodies, as well as of the prosecution and the judiciary, also seemed to have the clearest of the most ousted Trapero. Is it not precisely that this claim by the former chief of the Mossos is one of the causes of his dismissal, his visits to the capital to regain institutional confidence in the police force he was adding up? Will they not be the main cause of their dismissal? On Monday I asked him what it seemed to him that there had been political interference in the investigations followed by the chief deputy inspector of the anti-corruption area of the General Investigation Commissioner in relation to the Buch-Escolà case, investigated for unlawfully escorting the fugitive Puigdemont, and with the Borràs case, of the Speaker of the Parliament, also investigated for splitting public contracts in favor of a friend. Some interferences that motivated the deputy inspector responsible for anti-corruption to seek amparo from the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. You removed iron from that issue and solemnly announced that you would not – today you have done so again – allow those interferences and that you were willing to shield the police action of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, especially with regard to anti-corruption. But we are talking about a specific person, at the head of sensitive investigations, who had to apply for amparo before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. Counsellor Elena, have you taken any concrete steps to clarify these interferences and to denounce those responsible? Be who you are, because this episode is very serious and should be a cause for internal investigation and of particular concern to a political leader who is not willing to allow the partisan use of the Mossos. In any case, Mr. Elena, opacity remains a constant in your department and in your government. This profound change that you have made after half a year at the head of the Interior seems, on the one hand, a purge, a sort of adjustment of accounts with an idol fallen into disgrace perhaps after your testimony to the Supreme and your defense before the National Audience, and on the other, given the final picture, it also seems a balanced distribution of political power in favor of the two parties that cohabit in the Government of the Generalitat. If his claim is to keep the Mossos d'Esquadra outside the political whim, outside the partisan struggle, if this claim is sincere, he should thoroughly review the procedures used by the Autonomous Administration to select, promote and appoint the police officers he places at the head of the body. Among the main issues that should be reviewed and updated is the process of training and selection of senior level members, commissioners and stewards of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. A review that should seek effective formative approval with other security forces and bodies, such as the National Police and the Civil Guard. Opening the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia to best practices and training programmes should always have been a priority of the Government. It should study, review and regulate the system of internal promotion and also the promotion and assignment of commissioners and stewards; a regulation that takes into account training, career and, of course, the merit and ability to carry out their managerial responsibilities, above all other considerations. It must seek and implement formulas that really prevent any kind of political interference in the provision of the service inherent in public security. Mr. Elena, the daily cuts of the Meridiana that have been taking place for more than two years are a scandal. Yesterday there was again a shameful episode in the Meridiana, as it was also lived on January 4, a real shame that only obeys the institutional defense of separatist ideology. It should also thoroughly review the structure, procedures and functional unit of the Division for Internal Affairs, whose functioning leaves much to be desired. There are many agents in the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps who fear this division; a division with a marked partisan bias that, as is being seen this week in the oral hearing of the Macedonia case, tends to dip in their files and researches. These and other issues, Counsellor, will be concrete proposals in our motion in the next plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.217.0	In the replica turn, the word has the counselor, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.218.0	Well, the truth is I didn't..., to his party – he said – I didn't convince him with the justification of the changes. He's the first one to try it, too, huh? Because the other interior advisors – ministers and others – change the body and they don't have to convince anyone because they don't ask for explanations. This might also be good to review in the future and that everyone has to explain the measures they take. I deny purging. Yes, of course, I deny it, because I say that the only purge that has occurred is 155; therefore I have no doubt about it. [[Greetings.]] The only political purge that ever existed is 155. It is the only reason why, for ideological reasons, he took over a whole government and also responsible for a security body. And despite this, the body, also during that time, held some great commandments – it also held some great commandments. Because so much solvent and strong is the Squad's Squad's Stitch, which is not under partisan doctrines, which are divided into_thousands. And to this I would also like to make reference – I said it before, I repeated it –: investigations do not make them a person; investigations fan people's drawings, four or five people, two people..., those that indicate and the units that the courts establish and fix. And the counselor doesn't have to know them, and the counselor won't know them. And the political leaders don't have to know. And these are the protocols that exist. And these are the mechanisms and the ways to function and the ethics of the Squad's Body in its investigative practice; of all, not just of one person– of all. What we say is that these practices, in addition, we want to protocol them, because it is always good to be able to go forward. But these practices of ensuring non-interference have always existed, and they have always been the guarantee of this Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And I repeat: if there are political interferences, which practices will cease. I said that by active and passive. I said it yesterday, I said it in the intervention earlier, and I'm going back to say it now. I didn't iron it, I just gave her an answer. You asked me yesterday: "Do you see that...? No, no, I said so clearly. And I didn't just say no, I just said, "No. And if there aren't, I'll dismiss the person who practiced them. Hosti, more clearly, water. Another thing..., he may say he doesn't believe me; that's another thing, that's already subjective. But clearly I was. And I have the assurance that I will. The second part of his intervention was very positive. That's to say, you say you think you need to change the systems of..., improve the promotion systems, the selection, the formation..., in other words, the role, let's say, of the DAI, in the framework of the internal controls of the Squad Cross. So they make proposals. I'm willing to listen to them all. In some, many, we can probably coincide; in others, many, we probably won't coincide, but we will have the opportunity to debate them. But we can debate them in this House; we can debate them to the police model committee, and we can debate them to the Interior Commission of this Parliament. Therefore, from this point of view, but, naturally, to be able to speak of all these questions, which, of course, in many things we may have discrepancies. Therefore, I repeat: cap purga; exercise the skills that are close to a councillor, explained over and over – explained over and over. And, therefore, from this point of view, it seems to me that I have completed my obligations. Now what they're saying is that the people in charge are shooting at their project, shooting at the Squad Ways, as their predecessors have done, and as they will, of course, be doing, the ones who will come later. Because that's exactly what the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.219.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the reform of public administration]] [[300-00100/13]] Let's move on to the fourteenth order of the day, the question to the Government on the reform of public administration, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs.Jordina Freixanet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.220.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Councillor Vilagrà, since the post-Franquist General took over the governance of the country, the pending assignment has been to have a proper model of administration, without bad copies of girls or standard pieces based on repositions and more repositions; a dynamic model of administration, which, instead of relying on procedures and formalities, is based on people and rights. With the responsibility and the compromise of transformation, Esquerra Republicana took the result of the polls on February 14, 2021. Uncomplicatedly, we have to lead the changes that this country needs for the general interest and for the common good. I'll do it. It is clear, therefore, that public administration is one of the central axes to be addressed in this legislature, without and with the will to vertebrate, for the first time, a suitable model of administration. And from this Parliament, we will also accompany and age for this transformation. Over time and for many years, the city of this country has had the perception of a public administration synonymous with adjectives such as silence, distrust, irresponsibility, difficulties. A perception that on many occasions it may be more than justified: the excess of bureaucracy and the lack of regulation in many administrative areas have elongated it from the citizenry and have ratified it as a short time functional, late, unable to resolve administrative conflicts and to give effective responses to citizens' needs. Like the Republican Left, we want an administration and public services that generate maximum confidence in the citizenry, and that respond to the current challenges of institutions and public servers. Those who have, those who have..., and let me speak first, because for the last fifteen years I have done nothing but work for the public sector of this country. And I told them that institutions and public servants have a duty to provide the best public service in this country. That is why, when we talk about administration, we also talk about good governance, about the need to strengthen the bonds that unite citizens, rulers, and establish greater transparency, participation, dialogue, collaboration and accountability between administration and citizens, because the citizens are not only the recipients of the development of public policies, but also the participants in the election, design, implementation and evaluation of those policies. To make this model transformation possible, we need to look and move from a closed or static administration to an open or constantly changing administration. And we need to rethink all and each of the actions, plans, programs, protocols, current operating systems and build up this new model. And we know that this government, she advises, has precisely the objective of making an administration more transparent, innovative, participatory and simplifying of services to the citizenry; in short, an administration facing the good public service, close and of quality. With leadership and strength, we last all the necessary changes to renew the Administration and make it more democratic, intelligent and, consequently, more effective. The Republican Public Administration, therefore, must be proper, simplified, digitized and decentralized, to the service of the citizenry, of all the institutions of the country, and guarantor of the rights of all public servers. We know that during the pandemic phase a short way of updating and digitizing the services was started, a way that might have already started with the anticipation of previous councils. We were late, and I'm sure the pandemic reacted. But we also know that this was used as a lever of change and opportunity. And, therefore, we must add the opportunities, the proposals and the leadership, to ensure the institutional quality that this country deserves, leaving behind bureaucracy and modernizing the administration from low to high, and knowing with good grace that the republican government is already laying the piles to generate these necessary changes. Every time, our society, our citizens, want faster, more immediate results, and to the public policies that go away, the Administration must be able to give them answers. They cannot generate frustration or impotence. Therefore, accepting the need for change leads us to transformation towards the progress we need, and we want this Administration to be rationally related to all of us, reliable on the part of the people, and with a leadership that marks the strategy, but also to allocate the resources needed for its modernization. In short, we want a brave Catalonia, a Catalonia that rethinks and modernises the administration, based on four axes, and let me repeat them. Administration with open government, transparency and citizen participation, and therefore a net and free administration of corruption, representative of republican values. A Catalonia that passes from translucent to real transparency, that overcomes the conception of the transparency word as a legal obligation that is limited to giving it to a citizen's petition or when it is per legal empire, and that is constantly innovation of formats, interoperable plataforms, and that is the basis of data governance – so in the age of data: open, easy to hear, and find, and give to the abst of tothom – that exceeds the square of direction and places the look on the square of commitments. An administration that changed dynamics and, beyond merely executive functions, all the vagina actions faced with the transformation of administrative action; that is working in circles, and not in pond compartments. Secondly, we want an innovative and efficient administration, which values public workers, recognize their key role in guaranteeing the public services of the country. The law of the School of Public Administration is of the year 87. We need to regain the confidence of the citizenry in public services, and this we need to do through its workers and workers. The main tool for transforming the Administration is the training and empowerment of public sector employees. Without a real awareness of the need for changes, for tools, placards that we have in operation, this will not produce. And, in this sense, it is necessary to overcome traditional training based on the memoristic knowledge of regulation and promote learning habits and habits to learn an attitude adaptable to the dynamics of change. Public servers are – som – the box that guarantees this transformation, and this also requires a change in the staff selection and recruitment system. It is also possible to overcome a model of bureaucratic and managerial administration of the 1990s, where the last few years have proved that the worst version of the business world has been copied into a_mark that does not fit either by terms, by dynamics, by processes, or by values. We bet from a managerial model to a professional, collaborative public management model, where we value our own institutions, people, entities and the public sector, each of them as a key piece in this transformation. We overcome the management model for a collaborative model and also implement intelligent offices, where citizenship brings us all the problems every time more complex, and what we do is give it a recipe to measure its solutions. We may have many unique windows, but we all know that many times, in order to get through an administered process, we need a body well to make sure exactly where these processes are. Let us, therefore, focus on keeping good strides in public administration. A pro-government, simplified and decentralized, organized into two levels of government and three areas of territorial activity, balanced territorially and betting for the proximity of the services in the new administration. A principle of subsidiarity in a Catalonia that recognizes the public service of each municipality. And, lastly, an administration that prioritizes voluntary and flexible community of services, according to the local and municipal singularity of the whole country. That is why, she advises, we hope that yes – now yes – it will be leading and will be building the new foundations, the radical change in the functioning of the Catalan public administration joint, the call to know in this Parliament how it will be done and what is the full route in the own meso. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.221.0	Now you have the word the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.222.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... well, deputy, let me be honest, to begin with. In fact, when I took over the kingdoms of this very large office of the President, I noticed that I would have the skills of the Secretary of Administration and Public Service, and that meant, indeed, addressing great challenges. What I may not know is that I am passionately convinced of the need for change within the Administration, I look forward to a modernized, agile, efficient, transparent, compromised administration, with this vocation of transformative public service, and also, for another band, just, ethical, where privileges do not gain. I would say that I know the Administration well – the local, the district, and also, in part, the national; therefore, the potentialities and aspects that need to be improved. And you approached them very clearly in your intervention. We know that the way is long, that we have many needs, that we come from a time of contempt or disbelief for politics and administration, and that, therefore, we cannot afford. Politics is driving change, and it can strengthen relations with the citizenry, improve the value and connection that it has with politics. That is why we have already begun to straighten out, to prioritize and to make those changes that cannot be expected, so that, effectively, to push..., that the government will push this profound reshaping of the ‘ Administration. Parliament urged us to optimize the internal organisation in the formative field, in order to promote a new model of learning, innovation, in the Public Administration; it also urged us to implement a new model of relationship between the Administration and the citizens, with a more transversal, digital, and transparent vision. Anyway, we'll explain how we're gonna do it. And we'll do it, it can't be any other way, putting people in the center; they're more proactive; with administrative simplification that facilitates the generation of citizens' opportunities, you've been born where you were born, the reduction of delays. I, therefore, develop a new model of civic experience integral, personalized, agile. And I will give you an example: in the case of a birth in a hospital, the Administration knows perfectly well what that family needs and what it has right; therefore, questions of standard, civil registry, work download, help. It can be unified into a citizen folder of all administrations and, therefore, in some way, make these tools that he talked about, the data, work intelligently in favor of the citizenry. Therefore, we can share much more data between administrations; also, to implement more effective public policies and make life easier for the citizenry. To give an example – another example –: when there is a change in the pattern, these people who change their homes should not go explaining to all the administrations that have changed their homes, but we should already be able to know and share them. Each contact with the Administration cannot be converted into an adventure, as in that famous Asterix and Obèlix Passage and the Twelve Tests. Another way to end this relationship change is to simplify and improve it in the administrative processes. Therefore, an understanding process, with forms of requests written in easy, understanding language, does not make use of the administrative slang as often, therefore, poorly used. I give you the following example: when the Administration does help, whatever it is, and, therefore, an autonomous person or a company has to process help, it often needs specialized services because it is impossible to do it alone; this we cannot afford. And for all this, I like to say that this is not a technological project, but a change in the culture of public administrations where technology is only a means to accomplish it. And, as in all cultural change, we also need the support of public workers in this change. And speaking of servers and servers, which are obviously the basis of Administration and Organization, I will talk to you about selection systems, talent uptake and the values that this new Administration needs to inspire us. For this reason, we have set ourselves up and, in fact, we have put forward various norms that will improve in all these senses, and we already have preliminary memories, on the part of the government, girls, in different aspects. One of them, in a Catalan public employment law project, which we consider to be a key law project to establish a common legal framework for all public administrations in the field of public employment, so as to define a model suitable, as you also pointed out, for public service in Catalonia. Obviously, we know that we have the lewdness of state law, but we will not stand in these limitations, but we will explore all the margins. And what is the main purpose of this rule? So a comprehensive reform of public employment to adapt it to the social, economic, technological, scientific, changing environment that we have at these times; to make the public service an institution with a high degree of professionalism. And this was also related to overcoming the bureaucratic model and directing the performance of public administrations to the accomplishment of objectives, to the assimilation of results, to the appreciation of impacts. For another band, we plan to reduce the temporality in the occupation. And this is a great challenge to attract talent, rejoin plants, prioritise the capture of our professional profiles. But it also facilitates the mobility of work and the simplification of things; therefore, it favors this mobility between different administrations, with particular relevance, obviously, in the assemblies and the local world. The standard also provides for measures to simplify the current system of public service bodies and ports of call, to equip them with more versatility. And, in fact, we have already applied some of these changes, because we have already agreed, in the area of collective bargaining, an assessment of public employees at our negotiating table. And, in this sense, what it is about is an effective system that defines objectives for all public workers, which must be their degree of achievement and how it must be completed by, in fact, professionally developing excellence. It is a concept that had been abandoned to the Administration and seems to us very relevant to put it on the table; obviously, with an economic remuneration, therefore, related to this degree of accomplishment. This will also serve to promote internal promotion, career based on itineraries, with different degrees or exglaons to which it is possible to access not only by antiquity, but for the continuous evaluation of completion and accreditation of competitions. And that's what we've been working hard with union organizations. To implement this new model, we will also advance, during this year, in the implementation of the evaluation system for objects by year 2023. Therefore, we want a public office of excellence, with motivated and motivated professionals, satisfied, that is binding on the Administration renewing this commitment that they have acquired. And you spoke of good government. And, effectively, we have developed the code of the public service of Catalonia, which aims to contribute, through the values, the principles of public servers in their functions, in the better of democratic quality. We have also developed in the past few years, since 2016, the code of conduct of senior officials and senior staff of the Generality, a whole series of values to promote, in a way absolutely, let us say, maximum, transparency, of a band, also the democratic quality. And now in these moments we are in the renewal of the Committee on Public Ethics, which will allow us to make consultations, to make complaints, to make complaints, to make ethical proposals, because we serve as alarms of possible irregularities, and, in this sense, with people external to the Administration of the Generality. And the last thing I wanted to talk to him about is the draft law of the School of Public Administration of Catalonia; obviously, a very important issue, because what we would like to talk about is just a new school that I promote, that I produce research and analysis, but that also helps us to capture, develop talent, training and learning, that must be adapted to our needs, in the institutions that create the public governance ecosystem. Therefore, this rule is necessary, as I said, because at the moment we have a law of the year 87 that obviously does not lay the transformative objectives that at these times we want, therefore, hard to finish and neither the current conceptual mark. Therefore, it seems to us that it is important, it is vital that we can share knowledge with the indispensable tool because this School of Administration is converted into the school of the public administrations of Catalonia. Therefore, let it be done not only by the Generality, but also by the local administrations. In this sense, a school throughout the Catalan public sector, close to the territories, to other public sector training operators, but also to the academic world, to the professional world and to society in general. The aim is to stimulate the uptake, retention and promotion of talent in the Administration; to seek to detect innovation in any administration, to standardize it and to be able to scale it to other administrations; to adapt training and learning to current requirements; and, therefore, to build up this national school of management and public administration, which must obviously help us in this reform of the Administration. I'm done. So, then, we have started working on this necessary transformation, but it will be important to involve all actors there; the Parliament will also have an important role to play. I therefore hope that we will also be part of this, the whole Parliament will be part of this process of change required by the Administration. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.223.0	Let's move on, then, to the seventh point of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the dissolution of the Committee of Experts to guarantee the rights of use in emergency situations (postponed)]] [[300-00104/13]] I have already informed you, before suspending the session in the morning, that the fifteenth point of the order of the day has been adjourned. [[Asking the Government about economic recovery plans and European foundations]] [[300-00105/13]] And, therefore, the seventh item of the order of the day is the inquiry to the Government on the plans of economic recovery and the European foundations, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.224.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Last week was the PERTE Santé de Vanguardia, with a reversal of 1,469_million euros. This presentation was a joint presentation between the Government and the Ministry. In that presentation, the Director of Innovation and Prospective of the Agency of Quality and Evaluation of Catalonia of the Generality stated: "We would be wrong if we thought of PERTE as a project that helps to boost healthcare activity. At first we might have thought that he would go to care, but in fact it will serve to promote the sector and industry. So it made clear, in this act of presenting PERTE to Catalan companies, that these European foundations are not designed to boost sanitation as a public service, but rather as a private negotiation. In fact, at last week's appearance of the Secretariat of Economic Affairs and European Foundations of the Generality, the Generality was raised as a mere fund manager. I remember the words I used to say before they were from the generality. Therefore, let me also take over the centralization in the management of the funds by the Government of the State – despite the fact that some people voted for the assumptions of the State with the promise of, as a minimum, co-managing them – doubt that you can go further than being the transmitters of policies that seek to grasp the future prospects of the working class in the narrow bounds defined by the accumulation of capital. In fact, allow me to doubt that they do not have the capacity to decide where the money goes if we base ourselves on the words of last week in the presentation of the main draft tractor of salvation. But to put it a little in context, let's talk a little about what these European foundations are, what the Next Generation foundations are. In their first appearance at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I have already explained from my parliamentary group that they can assume these European foundations which are often treated as manna that fall from the cell without addressing many of the implications they carry. In fact, you, in that same appearance, demanded that we not disqualify European foundations. Today, months later and they know with count the advent of the program, we reaffirm ourselves even more, if possible, in the characterization that we did at that time of the Next Generation. And we reaffirm ourselves even more, if possible, also in the characterization of the set of plans that in cascade have assumed their postulates raids on the European continent. It is the main tool of a green and digital capitalism that is not only a discursive weapon that has as its main mission to undertake, as I said before, the future of the working class. Thus, one time approved the country plans – the main tool that very generally backs the main bets and reforms planned by each state –, at the length of 2021 they went to release the first payments, thus putting the machinery in the way. But the balance of the first photograph, still in its infancy, offers, in any case, interesting elements of analysis that concretely set out these signs of identity that we already understand more than a year ago, but which are now consolidated. In fact, we could characterize it as Bermuda's triangle; Bermuda's triangle with three vertexes. The first vertex, the initiatives and the priority agents. The initiatives that are driving themselves make clear the role that transnational companies, big companies, take over. More than 360 different calls published so far in all types of sector, highlights the amount of time offered to submit requests, for the high minimum volume of funds required in each proposal, as well as the need to co-finance around thirty per cent of the volume. With these conditions, the social and solidary economy is implicitly expelled, but also the peppers, the small and medium-sized enterprise, while the big companies, with greater skills, greater information and solid institutional alliances, copy the calls. And the special mention has the inverters and the builders. Therefore, we see how the development of the components of the projects around cures and salutations clearly exemplify this situation of remarkable asymmetry in areas where the Community public should be especially present. And I return to the Vanguard Health Loss, which serves as an example for which we want to explain. Investments are largely directed, not to peppers, but to pharmaceutical and biotechnological multinationals, who expect to receive juicy public aid. This means that the health tractor project is primarily directed to companies with industrial capacity; in no case to the public health sector. Therefore, the privatising model of European public services and public goods, such as health, through this model of public-private collaboration, is worrying, because after a decade of privatization of public services and health retailing, there is no doubt that the main political issue should be how to secure the collective rights in a context of crisis and emergence and not how to achieve the lead of the Catalan health industry. Second vertex – Bermuda's triangle –: the reforms planned. Of all of them, there are two of them. One is pension reform. And the other is the one that is the protagonist of these days: labor reform. Because it's the first big thing in socio-economics. This presupposes the de facto consolidation of the 2012 labour reform, because, beyond the recovery of the ultraactivity of the agreements and the contract of work and services, the centralization of the collective bargaining, the maintenance of the coordination and the facilitation to execute it, collectively as individual, mark the identity of the process. Out of the struggle for reform of trade unionism, of alternative trade unionism, because it is as significant as the gathering on the part of the CEO. In fact, as I said, this unionism, basically, of nations without state, because, paraphrasing the president of the Round, "if the result of our strength as the working class is this labor reform validated for the majority unions, it is much that awaits us with pension reform. And third vertex: public debt. One of the main ways to tackle both the 2008 financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic has been the massive liquidity injection in a context of low inflation and stable interest rates. In this way, the increase in debt, both the private and the public, has been the main tool for supporting businesses, states and administrations, reaching high levels of concern. The European funds, the Next Generation, even if based on aid to lost funds, are held on the debt issue by the European Union. What will happen when the European Growth and Stabilization Pact is recovered? The shadow of austerity, in short, is wider and we could be ahead of an exponential return in the form of deferred austerity. And we recovered the Vanguard Health Loss, which gave to the beginning. If instead of betting to strengthen the public health and healing system with these foundations, what we do is to deepen the privatization of these, we already know who will be the victim of this delayed austerity again. In front of an over-indebtedness, they always end up paying for public services; public services that the public administration is dedicated to strengthening and actually putting in the center. And before all this panorama, you can answer that the Generality has no more capacity, that can't do anything about it. But there are some proposals that we would like to make, because you are not managers or accomplices to this delayed austerity and this undertaking of the rights of all of us. The first: the assemblies are desperate to try to clarify how and what calls there are. The Generality could and should accompany local administrations in this process and, at the same time, mark shared goals that really put people's lives at the centre. Transparency. Last week, various organizations denounced the lack of transparency and tools for public scrutiny before the Greuges Synod. Before writing the Next Generation Catalonia, the government, you, retake their own demonstrations of interest. The question we ask is: do you manage your own bag of interested entrepreneurs? A transparency exercise in this sense would be a first step. And you said to your first appearance at the committee: "We know what needs to be done. And in these moments we already know how to do it. And I ask, what's this? The same one that always puts the work and the interests of the private party before the common one, or the one that seeks to build and recover sovereignty? If we come, if we externalize, if we privatize, if we privatize European foundations we dedicate them to private businesses, whose sovereignty are we talking about? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.225.0	To answer the question, has the word now the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.226.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Reguant, good afternoon, and thank you for your question. I propose to answer it from three axes to which you have referred, directly or indirectly, to your inquiry. The first is the idea of Europe. What is our position, his and my position, or that of his party and that of the Government, before the European project. On this I have to tell you that our positions are probably longer. For what it does to the European Union, you are surely aligned with what is known as Euroscepticism. On the other hand, we see the European project as one of the most successful projects of interregional solidarity and social integration in the history of international relations. And I personally have to say that I believe that Europe is a genuinely political project, a project that has manifested the generosity of the richest countries towards the poorest, a project that promotes economic progress, but also promotes political freedom and social justice. European democratic values and their strict separation from power are, for example, expressed in the legal protection mechanisms that have been activated in Belgium, Italy or Germany to guarantee the rights and freedoms of President Puigdemont and the combination of political exiles. Therefore, this would be my first reflection: Europe is a good project, a good political project, and we must be proud to form part of it. The second is that you have commented is referring to the European Foundation, the Next Generation Foundation. I want to remember two things about this. The first is that the European Union already has, for some time now, ordinary fund transfer mechanisms because the member countries are destining them to things that you claim. The famous ERDF Funds, for example, aim to correct social inequalities between Member States and are channelled primarily through the public sector or the third sector, and include actions to improve, as you know, regional social and health systems. What I want to say to you is that, in a structural way, the European Union already has, in the past, funding mechanisms that promote the convergence of member countries to the same standards in the model of social welfare. Therefore, of one band, ordinary and recurring sources of the European Union. And, on the other hand, the commission mobilized, because of the covid, 750.000_million extraordinary euros that will be invested between the years 2021 and 2027. In the Spanish State, 152,000_millions correspond. These funds are known, as everyone knows, as the Next Generation; they are divided into two programs: the React program and those of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the MRRs. In metaphorically sanitary terms, we could say that the React funds represent a few emergency services, while the MRR funds represent long-term health plans. The React funds, the emergency funds, are intended for programs that you ask – for public health, education, employment, social services – all to help people who are most painted because of the pandemic. The European Union allocates a total of EUR 47,500_million, almost two thousand of which are for Catalonia. And of this quantity, 241_millions are specifically for public sanitation, allocated directly for the Ministry of Health. Moreover, within these programs focused on improving the public health that was now being commented on, there are two lines of the React program that I would like to highlight, for which you have commented. A programme with 306_million euros for health products and services, with actions aimed at strengthening hospital care and the convalescence of sick people per covid, the sub-administration of PCR tests and the coordination of intensive care units for patient health care. And a _second infrastructure investment program, equipped with 427_millions, includes better buildings in the field of health and teaching, the expansion of public hospitals and the reform of surgical blocks or the reform of primary care centres, CAPs. Therefore, the foundations are in this line and also take care, and a lot, of the field of salvation. The MRR funds, in change, are intended to build the social and economic foundations of Europe that we want for our own years. Here the European Union has committed an investment of 672,500_million euros until 2026. Last year, the Government of Spain allocated €1.491 million to Catalonia, a six-per-cent of the total managed for the State. With the MRR funds, it is no longer a matter of laying a good to cover a wound, but of strengthening the skeleton and social muscles of the continent. You claim, and we certainly agree with you, more resources for public health. I also highly appreciate the decision that hospitals and primary care centers have played; we agree. But we'll get out of this pandemic sooner than later also thanks to the cows. And the cows have come from Europe. I just want to remember that the first two names to be implemented are Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech. After this there is an angled university and a German research centre financed with European funds, and two pharmaceutical companies in charge of production, which are inevitable in order to be able to produce cows. This is a model that works and this is the model that will bring us from the pandemic. Therefore, European foundations have a good design. There are grounds for dedicating them to what you claim, both structural and extraordinary. In relation to the advance health loss, as you know we do not decide in Catalonia, they decide in Madrid. And this is the third axis of my exposure that I'm going to end up with this first part. I want to highlight the deplorable role that the Spanish government is playing in the domestic management of funds. In Spain, the programme is two ways away: one, entrusting to the autonomous communities the administrative work, or assuming from the State, in a full and centralized way, the complete management of the funds. At this point, the role of the Generality in the convocations is this: a role of management. That's right, let's work harder than good, because VAT is our business. You know perfectly well the principle of subsidiarity. Well, here it doesn't apply – here it doesn't apply. What is happening with European foundations is a new episode that many of us have known for a long time. Madam Regunant, it is not Europe nor are the European foundations the problem. The problem is not Europe. The problem is Spanish. Spanish is a problem for Catalonia. In fact, Spain is the problem of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.227.0	It has the word, to make the reply, the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.228.0	Well, thank you very much. It is obvious, Counselor, that we have a perspective and a different idea of what the European Union is, and a perception. I would talk about..., or I would ask you if this solidarity of the European Union is that solidarity of the Frontex policies and that leaves dead, every day thousands of dead, to the Mediterranean. Because this is not the solidarity I think you have, but this is the European Union that has been built. And, at the same time, a purely economic project, which is built from the centre to the periphery of Europe, where the great powers of Europe are the ones that end up marking and dictating policies for their own ruling classes. And this has been the historical dynamic, the dynamic that we saw in 2008 with the rescue policies dictated by the troika and that we are now seeing with the European foundations, where we all agree that 2020 was clearly a huge injection of public investment to transform the economy. And what we're seeing is that it's not so huge, because in the background it would need much more public investment, nor is it transformed so much, because it reproduces the old-fashioned scheme, that it's socializing the lost and privatizing the benefits, because it ends up feeling that way. Again I ask: what will happen when the stability pact comes back into force in 2023? When, during all this time, you serve publics that with enough work..., not to say that you have not recovered from the detail of the 2008 crisis, you are patenting the consequences of this crisis and the head of public administration invests, with these European foundations, to transform public services, to strengthen them and why they are really the pillar of society that we want to build of social justice for everyone. This is a central element. If public services are not strengthened now with high inversion or with the injection of money than above, it is obvious that when we arrive at debt over-indebtedness policies, as it is more than predictable that we arrive, because 2020, before the pandemic crisis, at the world level we are already at the highest levels of debt... So when we get to the pact or when we get back to it, what's going to happen? The thing that always happens: the first ones in the world will be the public services; they will be the public services of cures, of salvation, education... Therefore, let's say again, we need to redirect this public investment, not on short-term projects. Because you defined it very well: the React are for emergencies and the MRR... But it turns out that the React, which is for emergencies, serves to cover holes, not to transform or strengthen. At the same time, they are conjunctural, and there is no bet for transformation and strength permanently, not conjunctural, to cope with an emergence as it is now seen. And so, that's our big question and concern, and that's why we're going back to saying, what sovereignty are we talking about? What will we decide? About which public servants would we decide, whether we have been externalizing and privatizing them? This is one of the key elements for us to understand that European foundations must be served. And, yes, it is again centralization, the umpteenth centralization on the part of the State; it limits the Generality's capacity, but it has more. If they don't have the capacity, why do they make joint presentations and endorse the privatizing speech of the ministry? If you swallow, do you reply to this speech, do you have the capacity or do you not have the capacity? And, yes, we will agree that centralization on the part of the State does not help one of the cabal elements because it actually reaches all the ground and is distributed equitably and gives response to the needs. Yes, we've always known: the State is under arrest for the people and the poor. Therefore, we believe that the Generalitat does not contribute to being imprisoned by either the people or the poor. We also redistribute the funds; we guarantee that – local administrations have the capacity to access it – they will actually transform and strengthen public services and ensure that everyone has access to these services. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.229.0	And it has the word, in the turn of reply, the Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.230.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. MPs, MPs... look, you're going to tell us that the European Union is in debt, and that's true, and by extension all citizens are in debt to channel all the money that goes to big companies. You're going to tell us that European programs come to be like a Robin Hood girl all the time, because they get money from the poor to give it to the rich. I agree with one of the vertexes of the Bermuda triangle that you explained. Out of three, debt. It is worrying the public and private debt of families, states and businesses in Spain, the Spanish State, Europe and Catalonia. I mean, it's a really worrying spiral. But I also have to say that this does not mean that Europe..., that I come back to defend the European project, because I think it is the thing where we have to heal and especially a country like ours at these times. I must say that inequality has not increased, either in Europe or in general terms country by country. Europe, as I say, represents more quickly this safety thing, as they are beginning to hear the anglers two years after Brexit. I recommend a very interesting independent report, commissioned by the Government of Scotland, that assesses the impact of Brexit, the social impact and also the economic impact. This report makes it clear that the groups of citizens who are most aware of the effects of Brexit are – Mrs. Reganing, as you would say – the usual: migrants, ethnic minorities, the poor, the great people, young people and women. The report I'm referring to is based on a study by the Women's Budget Group, which is a network of organizations dedicated to promoting the egalitarian economy in the United Kingdom. And in this study the authors conclude that for many women, and in particular for the poorest, who belong to minorities or who have some disability, Brexit may mean to remain unworkable, with detail in the services, with family assumptions in place and with lower legal protections than they had. The European Union is not as often as we want to introduce it. With all its defects, we get out of the European Union. [[Greetings.]] In relation to the fund. Look, the European funds... I've already talked about it and I don't want to insist on the really sad and deplorable behavior of the centralization of the European funds, but the European funds will come, will end up giving a result, I'm sure, positive for the whole economy. What I'm sure was not the same was the plan, if you remember, that the Government of Spain set out to attend, to respond to the 2008 financial crisis, the plan E, which ran together, the Socialist Government, with multimillionaire resources allocated without release or return. Everyone must remember, the infamous plan E, a programme that has turned all of Europe into a case study of which the public administrations are not to make, an immeasurable example of which is not to be made from the public sector. That was, honourable Member, an example of what we do not have to do and what we are still paying the Catalans today. A good part of the debt that is so pressing as to remind us that we pay attention to the debt that Catalonia suffered from that crisis in 2009, 2010, 2011, and that did not generate any value in the long run. Therefore, I think that to the European Union and to the European Fund, with all the best we have to put them, sincerely, Mrs Reguant, we must give them a vote of confidence. We must try to work because it does not just come, as you very well said, to large companies, but to all – small, medium-sized enterprises – and trust that this debt will actually be able to settle it in just a moment. But I agree that it is a great risk that we have and that we have to overcome it with the best of the economic situation that we are about to start. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-26-2202.231.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. So let's suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you very much.
