ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.1.0	Good morning. The session begins. The list of questions to answer orally in full is included in the ple folder that they have at their disposal. And according to Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this morning as the next item on the order of the day of this plenary session that we are about to begin. I am sure that two Members have put their vote to the vote for this session and that, unfortunately, too, before I start with the order of the day, I must communicate a new feminicide to them. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] According to the official data of the Department of Interior, on 16 July she died murdered in Maçanet de la Selva la Margarita. And, on behalf of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate this Parliament's commitment to eradicating any form of violence against women, and also all the effort to age for its record. According to the dol protocol of the Parliament of Catalonia against masculinist rapes, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls for a minute's silence to end today's plenary session at midday, before the palau facade. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also in agreement with the establishment of the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are a total of 971 people dead or missing in the Mediterranean. And also far from the last few days we have seen again how the virulence of flames has wiped out hundreds, thousands of hectares of our country. That is why I would also like to begin this Ple with a few words of follow-up, of support to all the veins of the areas affected by the fires these days and these weeks. Especially the ones who lost everything. Those who have lost their home and who are now facing an extremely complex situation. So, I want to take advantage of the occasion to show the profound gratitude of this Parliament to all those who fight the fires: firefighters, civil protection, rural agents, ADFs, movements, local police, medical emergence services, Red Cree, mayors, governors, pages, volunteers, everyone. Thank you for always being there; thank you for not failing. We're at the best of hands. But the dedication and professionalism of our fire emergence system cannot bring down our guard. We live weeks of extreme situation, it's remembered. Extreme fire risk situation. We have not experienced much, and this is still expected to be long and very warm, so again, we remember that we need to be careful and always bear in mind that the best way to put out a fire is to avoid it being produced. Let's move on, then, to the first point of the order of the day... yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.2.0	President, good morning. To know, why confirm to me if one of the people who delegate the vote is Mr. Lluís Puig, because logically...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.3.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.4.0	You know that I didn't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.5.0	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.6.0	... the decisions of the Constitutional Court and we reserve the legal and judicial consequences that this may have for you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.7.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, the answer is yes. One of the votes delegated to this House is that of Congressman Lluís Puig. [[Tribute in memory of former Member Antoni Dalmau and Ribalta]] [[401-00021/13]] Let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, the homenatge in memory of former deputy Antoni Dalmau and Ribalta. I want to greet most affectionately his widow, his daughter, his children, his Germans, to all the family who are with us today. Let us begin this point of the order of the day in memory of Mr Antoni Dalmau Ribalta, who was vice-president according to the Parliament of the years 1988 to 1995 and deputy of this chamber, also from 1988 to 1999. He passed last day 5 of the generation of this same year 2022 and, therefore, I preach to his family members that they accept our most sincere feeling of condolences, friendship and affection expressed to them by the Parliament of Catalonia. And to make this tribute to him, Mr Jordi Riba, the Member of Parliament of Socialists and Units for Progress, now has the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. I want, first of all, to greet Montserrat, the widow of Antoni Dalmau and Ribalta; her daughter Clara and her son-in-law Marc, and her Germans, Father Bernabé, Laura, Montserrat, Josefina and Jordi, who are accompanying us today. And a greeting also to your children Albert and Pol, who have not been able to attend this tribute. To make the gloss of a person appreciated and admired as the Antony is an honor for the occasion to return a just recognition and homage on the part of this institution to a person of a dilated, polyhedral and enthusiastic vital trajectory, always accompanied by a different sense of responsibility, a sincere kindness and a frank smile that always form part of their taranna. The propassat 5 of gener hits us with the death of the Antony. He left us, in such an unexpected and premature way, a fundamental personality of the politics and culture of our country. A personality that cultivates with excellence different areas, from the first-hour teaching of Catalan language in the later years of dictatorship, advocacy, translation of texts to high political and institutional responsibilities, literature or historical research. Always, and in all these circles, he did it intensely, involving himself with a deep and enthusiastic contagion, as Father Barnabas emphasized in the Homenatge to the Antoni who was made at the Catalan Institute of Studies the most recent. Whether polyhedral or polyhedral has been one of the most outstanding attributes of Antony for those we know, such as Jaume Sucqués or Quim Nadal, the fruit of the conreu of many different spheres to which he expressed his commitment, what really was the realm of Antony? To answer this question, I would like to take a few words written and pronounced for Rafael Jorba with a motto of the event, the year 2004, from the Medal of the City of Equalization to the Antoni, in which he asked: "What is the scope of all the areas that he would like to highlight from his profile, fruitful, polyhedral and polycentric? Answer: « The political compromise with Equal. From politics understood as the act of serving the police, that is, the city. With reference to Miquel Martí's and Pol's words, they captivate them on the paths of the story of Igalada, the story of the city addressed to the children, which Dalmau wrote in 1985 and which say: "In silence we have preserved some areas, we have built a country, the area of all areas. The answer Antonio gave in the same book to what the poet wanted to say with these verses is quite eloquent of his thinking. For us equal is also the realm of all realms. We've grown up here. This is where you work or study. Here's the estimate. They'll die here, maybe. Let's keep doing, in our midst, I mean our city, a place where it's possible to be good. Growing up all the good and great we carry in our own. The concern for the authenticity and deep sense of politics accompanied Antoni along his entire path. In this sense, sense of doubt, who could better explain it to us was the same in the book published in the year 2000, Cards to a young politician, which you can do for your country. This retreat of twelve cards representing his vision on the art of politics, the same way that Cartes to a young poet, Rilke, revealed an ars poetica from the writer. In this book you will reflect on various aspects of politics. In the second letter, on the political deed, Dalmau recalled the etymology of the word, the simplicity that was and, also, the depth of its consequences. And he wrote: "I don't know if you know that the català was one of the first languages to enter this word. It already consists of the 14th century, concretely, in a text by Francesc Eiximenis. Then he had a positive feeling, full of good tunes. Joan Corominas, a very wise linguist, who was never limited to being a linguist, says that he once had above all a sense of civil man, interested in the good collection and passing through the morning of humanity, philanthropic, simply reached the expression of the idea of urbanity and courtesy. He ended: "Have you fixed it, Ignasi? , to whom Antoni directed the cards, "what good does it sound? Ah, who could recover so many seconds after the original dring of the words. Without doubt Antonio in his vital trajectory was able to recover the dring of these words, not only in the field of politics, but in all that he developed. We see, therefore, a rapid epitome of his trajectory in various spheres. It was born in Igualada in 1951 to a family of Catholic and Catalan tradition, which had a significant influence on it. In particular, his father Antoni Dalmau and Jové, who was also a member of this Parliament, a democracy deputy. He was granted a right in 1973 and later served as a lawyer in Igualada, especially in the white-collaborator until 1982. Previously, in 1972, he obtained the title of professor of català, a task to which he devoted more than two years in courses organized for the escort movement, from which he took part in his adolescence; then, for Cultural Heritage, an entity from which he was founder in Igualada, and finally, for the Provisional Generality. His participation in institutional political life began in 1979. This was preceded by a political, civic and cultural compromise acquired at the length of the years of youth, which had as basic principles the defense of freedom, the cause of Catalonia and the struggle for social justice. During the franchise he was detained and fined on various occasions and deprived of his passport. He was a member of the Democratic Assembly of Igualada, a local organization of the Assembly of Catalonia, a collaborator of clandestine newspapers and a driving force behind the 1976 Marxian Freedom. He was a founding member of the local and regional section of the Socialist Convergence of Catalonia on the 75th, a formation in which he went on, as the first secretary of the Anoia, the subsequent evolution to the Socialist Party of Catalonia Congress, in 1976, and the Socialist Party of Catalonia, in 1978, an organization in which he was part of the National Executive Commission until 1992. In the 1979 municipal elections he captivated the PSC's candidacy for Equal, with twenty-seven votes remaining on the most voted list, which was Convergence and Union. The governor's gang, he was elected provincial deputy, he was a member of the government commission and socialist spokesman for the parliament, chaired at that time by Tarradellas, with whom he had a close relationship for years. In December 1982 he was elected president of the parliament in place of Francesc Martí Jusmet, and was there until 1987. In 1983, Pasqual Maragall took the second place in the candidacy of the PSC in Barcelona. From its task to the parliament, it highlights the development of the plans to assist the assembly, the expansion of the network of public libraries in Catalonia, the promotion of various natural parks, the administrative reform of the institution, and the cessation or restitution – by way of cessation – of the parliament, from the Palau de la Generalitat to the Generalitat of Catalonia, and the consequence of its transfer from the provincial government to its Can Serra. He was also in those years vice president of the Olympic candidacy of Barcelona 92 and compromised the financing of Palau Sant Jordi by the provincial corporation, and offered him the name he had brought to life. 1987 will be re-applicable to Igualada. He did not absolve the mayor and could not be re-elected provincial deputy. Dreams, ideas and projects with Dalmau's hands full of yearning and return between Igualada and Barcelona missed Igualada – in Rafael Jorba's words – hands in order to make all his dreams come true. 1988 was elected deputy to the Parliament of Catalonia, it was until 1999, and vice president of the chamber during two legislatures, until 1995. From those eleven years also highlight his work as putting, among others, the laws of Museums, 1990; of the Library System of Catalonia, 93; of the Cultural Heritage Català, also 93, and very particularly, of the law of linguistic policy, 98, which helped to write personally, in good measure. I am sure that the Antoni would have celebrated the recent agreement and amplification of the law of the català, approved in this Parliament recently. 1999 ended in the institutional sphere. He maintained his MPC until 2013, in which, out of disagreements with the party's policy regarding the independence process, he gave it to the end of its relevance and participated fully in the independence cause. 2015 picked up Esquerra Republicana's candidacy in Igualada. And 2019 closed the Republican candidacy to municipal elections, also to Igualada. At the end of its stage of institutional responsibilities, it is full in the literary and cultural fields. It was not a new scope for Dalmau, which had already published For the paths of the history of Igualada, 85; Work materials, 87, on his stage to the diputation; The color of the spiral, 1994; Capsa de records, 95, and Terra d'oblit, 1997, which was Premi Nèstor Luján de novel·la histórica. At this time, at the end of its institutional stage, it deepens in the study and the exhaustive documentation of catarism, laborism and social violence and the recovery of memory of oblivious characters of anarchism, as well as literature, and publishes Naufragis quotidians on 99, L'amour de Lluny on 2001, Spring of Winter on 2005 and The Will of the Last Catar on 2006, and historical studies as Sins capitals of the history of Catalonia, For the cause of the humble: a biography of Tarrida del Marmol, The Civil War and the first Francoism in the Year on 2014, The proceedings of Montjuïc. Barcelona at the end of the 19th century in 2010, Set days of fury – about the Tràgica Week – in 2009, The Rull case: life of terror in the City of Bombs in 2008, Little story of Enric Prat de la Riba, with illustrations of Pilarín Bayés, in 2007, The Catars and A getaway to the country of the Catars: travel guide in 2005 and 2002, respectively. From the cultural sphere, he presided over the Theatre Lliure Foundation from 1988 until 2013 and was part of the board of various cultural entities: the Orfeó Català, Fundació Centro Internacional de Música Antiga, Fundació Pau Casals and the Catalan Society of Historical Studies, a subsidiary of the Catalan Institute of Studies. He collaborated with various communication media, such as El Punt Avui, El Periódico de Catalunya, Regió7, Catalunya Ràdio, Anoia Diari, RAC1 and TV3. And a special mention, to finish, deserves the impulse in the foundation and direction of the second epoch of the Magazine d'Igualada, in which he expressed great interest and became its anima mater. Also of the oratori A thousand years, dedicated to the celebration of the millenary of the Basilica of Santa Maria of the city of Igualada. In the words of Quim Nadal, we cannot separate the intellectual appearance from the political appearance of the Antoni Dalmau, but all two sides lived together for many years. And politics goes on as a result and culmination of its own intellectual maturity. As his son Pol recalled in his homenatge at the Catalan Institute of Studies, Antonio always lived intensely, getting involved in all the things he did, with a contagious enthusiasm and accompanied by a frank smile. May his memory accompany us. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.9.0	So after this sense of honor and this long and warm ovation, let's go to the second point of the order of the day, ask the government with an oral answer. [[Ask the government about the effects of the same and the climate change]] [[310-00339/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the effects of the same and the climate change. The question is posed by Mr Lucas Ferro of the Group of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.10.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia needs a government that acts before the climate emergency. It is obvious that the climate is already changing: we live longer, higher and even higher temperatures; we carry almost one year of water; we have half of the water reserves of the past year; we are at forty-six per cent, below the minimum, of water reserves; today there are almost three hundred municipalities that depend on the rain to have water, since they are not connected to the network. Diagnosis already knows; the question is what they will do to ensure a fair transition and, above all, when they will stop legislating in the opposite direction. This same week it is ugly public that your government, moving at once and with the seventy per cent of the contaminated aquifers, will allow the barns to take purins at seventy-five metres of the water puddles. Or that the firefighters in Manresa Park, who had been marked by the fires, would have to publish a letter to report that they were cheating for an hour to fill a way because forty years ago – not two weeks, forty years ago – that they had no pressure on the water supply. Not to mention that we haven't practically installed renewable energies in Catalonia for years, that we're an energy desert and that you're trying to depend energetically on Aragó. The question is very simple. What's the balance of the first year of the government in the field of economic transition and what does its government plan to do, if it's going to do something, to cope with the long-term nature of the situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.11.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.12.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, congressman, well, actually, this summer the climate change is showing itself with a lot of cruelty. According to the Catalonian Meteorological Service, this June is the warmest since 2003. Every year, in the middle, we have five episodes of extreme heat, and in fact, guany, so, we're already on the third day. And that's why it's new that this special board is activated to maximize the efficient use of water. Currently, the embassies are around forty-seven, in 2008, where the reservations arrived at twenty_per_cent, as you know perfectly well, with a very complex situation that had to be addressed by Councillor Baltasar. Therefore, from that situation we wanted to do a lot of learning and, therefore, we have a much more robust system than we found ourselves a few years ago. In any case, thanks to that learning, at these times the desalinator of the Ter-Llobregat system..., so in the first six months of the year we were able to provide thirty cubic hectares of water. And that's why, along with other mechanisms, we have guaranteed mouth water. And that's the situation we're in right now. Therefore, we have a prepared government. It is also true that we need maximum sensitivity on the part of everyone, awareness, because the most expensive water is what is not. Therefore, in this sense, a preventive work, which we are doing, and in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.13.0	To answer the question, Mr Lucas Ferro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.14.0	We're talking a lot about the climate change, but I think it's a good thing that we're talking about "yes, the one that's boasting of doing business in this country, explained to us what we were thinking about going through, after eight years like this and eight years like this, the millions of gallons of water that we would need to do to make artificial snow tracks to the Pyrenees. Or explain to us why today in Catalonia only the six and a half percent of the energy comes from wind or solar sources. There's only eight years left by 2030. What does your government plan to do to ensure that half the electricity demand in Catalonia is renewable by 2030? What do you think you're doing to ensure that Catalonia will be energetically sovereign? And, above all, today, that we already live one that is extreme, but that will be resorted to in a future, what does his government plan to do to guarantee the water supply to Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.15.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.16.0	Thank you, President. [[Pause.]] Yeah? Right now? [[Pause.]] I seem to have one more little thing left, but, well, let's do it. In Catalonia, as he explained, and in fact as he knows, so a lot of people, a lot of people aren't connected to the network, and these are the ones who suffer the most at these times, because they depend on close sources. In any case, the forecast, the forecasts are not positive, they are of lack of precipitation. Therefore, obviously we are loving, we are alert, to obtain more water resources, also to reduce demand, obviously, this is important, but we will do so through the production of desalinizers; also enhancing the regenerated water, and it seems to us that it is very important to do so in this way; also using little or better the supply grid. Therefore, we do not want to shout bad weather, and in this case bad weather would be that we did not play, but we believe that the situation will be very cruel. And in any case, therefore, we need the maximum effort from everyone. But in any case, we have our dues and lessons after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.17.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full to the measures envisaged by the Department of Justice to ensure the safety of prison staff. [[Ask the Government about the measures envisaged by the Department of Justice to ensure the safety of prison staff]] [[310-00340/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.18.0	Yeah. Counselor, prison officials suffer serious and daily assaults that have led them to convene three demonstrations last month, the last with the unanimous consensus of all prison unions. It is the fault of the council for lack of personnel – there are prisons with three officials for every one hundred and twenty prisoners –; for lack of authority – you do not protect those who have to protect us – ; for lack of training – the training does not cover either personal defense or immobilization – and we propose that you make an agreement with the future prison school in Cuenca to avoid duplication and do not start from scratch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.19.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.20.0	He didn't ask me any questions. So, so to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.21.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.22.0	All right. Counsellor, the attacks on officials of Catalan prisons have multiplied one hundred and fifty per cent in one year. This month, there are officials from Brians prison who have received several beatings from a prison that had precisely been visited by the Criminal Law Observatory, which considers prison officials to be torturers. Prison officials visit the infirmary more than you do the prisons. And you have them out here, get out, report you, they'll ask you the relevant questions; face the reality and make the right decisions. Counsellor, there are many shortcomings in the Administration of Justice, and the Administration of Justice, Counsellor, is the poor sister of this Government of Junts and Esquerra. However, they continue with their ideological sectarianism, the harassment of judges; they see it as an anomaly that justice wants to apply the laws when it is its only function, and they call it the judicialization of justice. Pla d'us del català..., you obsessed with imposing a language when we also have one common to the rest of the Spaniards who are Spanish. Feminization of justice; when I announce that it has no sex, it is unisex and suffers from lack of budget and modernization. And they're passionate about reopening wounds, with historical memory laws, but when it comes to the more than a thousand_three hundred killed by Republicans in Montcada i Reixac, then they don't comply with their law and refuse to exhume. Counsellor, put order in the administration of justice, put order and protect prison officials in Catalonia, who are repeatedly assaulted. And I'll ask you a question, so you can answer it now. Are you planning to resign?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.23.0	To answer, you have the word "Justice Counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, president. Look, every time you ask us a question about prison or the Catalan prison system, this council is very happy, because this allows us to explain and to be able to put the focus in one of the weakest cases of our system and that from the minute or from this council we are working to become an authentic summer structure, a summer structure that allows us to take all the interest and all the essential resources to improve the life of prison, to improve its security and to overcome the endemic deficit of investment in maintenance and equipment. All this, which we have been working on since the first day, as I said, allows us to know and to have a clear diagnosis of what happens to our prisons. We know the prisons; we know where we want to go, that it is the reinsertion of people trapped as the model system of the Spanish State and of reference to Europe, a system that we want to continue to deepen, and that gives us, as I said, the opportunity to talk to us in this House, to sensitize its lords that I do recommend them to go to the prisons. And already the announcements that we will be working on a comprehensive, cross-cutting program from now on, because it's not only the Members of Justice who can visit our prisons, who can get to know what reality you see, because it's very easy to talk about pressure when things happen, but it's very hard to remember the arrests and the people, as long as they provide the public justice service inside, as they are residents because they have had a problem with society; they're relatively uninterested. In fact, you have shown that a good part of your question has devoted it to saying improvisations about other questions that are not strictly presumptive, which has revealed no interest that you deserve from these public equipments, which, I say, from the Government of Catalonia we work because they are models, because they are an authentic structure of the state. And I invite you to stay from the first to sign up for these visits we'll make to the prisons. because they know the reality and are aware of explaining that the obligation we have as public powers is to exercise the responsibilities that derive from the transfers of the Generality after the dictatorship, that in Catalonia we hold them in a clear vocation of reinsertion and that, obviously, the model that you would surely defend would be that of those Francoists who fortunately have been in Catalonia for many years now that they did not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.25.0	He asked the Government to give an oral reply in full on the plan to strengthen the Estuary Mossos. [[Ask the government about the squadron reinforcement plan for summer]] [[310-00349/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ernest Maragall of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Let me begin, in any case, this question welcoming and celebrating Anna Gabriel's decision that we met yesterday. [[Greetings.]] It is a message of freedom that credits it as a Catalan and European citizen, as it returns to respect and dignity in this Parliament. Thank you, Anna Gabriel. We're all a little more free. Counselor Elena, you explained, there is citizen criticism and institutional concern for the coexistence and security of Barcelona. It is good news that the department takes over, and even more so that I act in consistent exercise of its responsibility. Today we rely on a Department of Interior that makes decisions, gives its face, and with a moss cos involved the cent_per_cent in the better of the security of our capital. We cannot go on ignoring, in any case, the fact that in certain barrels the eyes think they have lost control of their territories, their public space. And we are also aware of how organized crime must be who considers Barcelona as a useful one, its criminal proposals, the same way that we all share the need for our criteria in relation to minor crimes that end up, precisely, generating the perception of impotence or unnecessary police effort. The recent and repeated operations of the Mossos, in any case, against one or another band, so believe it, and so show us the firm attitude of the department to trap this unacceptable reality. The Local Security Council is meeting a few days ago, which you presided over, with the participation of the police and representatives of the judiciary and the prosecution. Result: Barcelona will have a significant increase in police performance compared to 2019 and, now, the required coordination between the different bodies. All folded into the march of a summer plan that contemplates an expanded and reinforced deployment of the security devices. You demonstrate every day that you can have a clear speech of what you mean by security, you can act effectively and you can articulate a global strategy to address the issue in the right and with the highest ambition. It's time to count on a new way of hearing the security that goes into articulating investigation, prevention, action, and real presence. All from the utmost complicity with the citizenry, all in close coordination with basic social policies: education, housing, work, in the first term. In this context, the understanding and institutional loyalty are crucial. This is the compromise of service to the general interest that I know that you lead and that you are willing to last until the last consequences. For all this, Councilman Elena, did you want to ask him how he confronts his own mesos? Who will be the proper passes of your department... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.27.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.28.0	President, thank you; Member. Indeed, with the return to normality after the pandemic, we must, once again, strengthen our country's security systems. That's why, thinking about the estuary and thinking about this return to normality, we've started and we've put out a estuary device, which is the largest since 2012. Because yes, because calyx, because this return to normality needs this increase, it needs this increase of more than five hundred, almost six hundred, moving more to the conjunct of the territory respect year 19 and, particularly, in those rights where it is more necessary, more presence to our tourist cities, more patrolling to the coast, to the zones of the night oci, more persecution, then investigation and patrolling in relation to the masclistic rapes and presence in proximity, that is what is an indispensable condition of security. And, of course, also the city of Barcelona in particular, with a device of a new_per_cent more effective than the 19th, which supposes 267 more moves. And some more measure, converting that public order, public order devices do not only have a reactive task, but also patrolling and presence in the barrel, both of the ARRO and Brimo devices, doing patrol work, assisting in the order of the citizen security units. And this work, and this permanent work and this increase in the effects of the security forces in the city has just led to a decrease in the crime in the city and incidents in relation to the year 19, but that doesn't have to suit us. Actually, there are barrels, there are spaces in the city that need more presence and also, more coordinated actions, as you said, because security went much further than the police. It is a social policy that must be structured and combined with social actions, education, greeting, presence, mediation and so many other quality public services. And finally, I want to thank, to thank the public servants, and in particular the Mossos d'Esquadra who work in the city of Barcelona, their work, their effort and their dedication, and their coordination with the local police. Thank you so much and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.29.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on rural schools. [[Ask the Government about rural schools in Bressol]] [[310-00350/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Torrentà, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.30.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. Allow me to begin the question with an example: Maria Pagès Tratita, my lady of all EGB, end seventy-eighty years. A teacher in a village of 350 inhabitants with thirty-six students of six to fourteen years in a classroom, and making her class alone to all the courses. This was the rural school of when I was little and the reality of many. Currently, the school carries its name in recognizance to its pocket. There are four classrooms divided by cycles, one for children, one for initials, one for middle and one for upper. The advanced student listens to the master when he explains the higher course and who needs more to pass when the under course is explained; an example transferable to many municipalities with little population, distributed throughout the geography of our country. From the gatherings we struggle not to decrease population and some struggle not to stop being. We have few tools, small assumptions, little personal, lack of housing policies, better public transport, and we start to slowly get there digitalization. We need to make it easier for people to stay in the village, but not in any way or in any dormitory of the most populated areas. It may be a quality town. Ordering would not be what it is if you didn't have the school or the school of children, bets of municipal government with a great presuppositional effort, that you can get to it up to twenty-five percent, and of the will of families to have an education in a proper environment, facilitating family reconciliation. We know, therefore, that from the government republic, and through the councils of Education, Presidency, Climate Action and Rural Agenda, the plan of integration of the initial stage to the rural school has been presented, converting them into rural schools with the incorporation of infants of one and two years. We welcome the fact that with this initiative we will be able to reduce expenditure on education for the first cycle in the municipalities by less than 2,500 inhabitants. With all this, counselor, could you give me more details about the initial stage integration plan for the rural school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.32.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MP Torrentà... well, so, you explained it. This plan of integration of the first cycle of childhood education into schools, from infantile 1 and infantile 2, responds to two priorities of the Department of Education, to two priorities of this Government. First priority: the zero-three stage. The year 2019 we recovered the financing for the conjunctions and, in view of the coming course, free for the schooling of the infantile 2. And it also connects with the government's commitment to rurality, as President Aragonès said – on different occasions he said – for southern Catalonia, because we are clear that the school does the people; when it beats a school beats a people. And in Catalonia we have 419 public schools in the municipality of less than 2,500 inhabitants. October 2021 we presented with President Aragonès..., we presented this plan, this plan of integration of the first cycle of childhood education to the schools. And we did it with the targets. The first objective is that no rural school is closed for economic reasons. And we have seventy. And the second objective: to create new ones, to create conditions to facilitate the gatherings, on the side of the gatherings, that believe these rural schools. And to do that, we changed the funding model. Up to now, rural schools had to be financed in many cases by annual amounts per course of EUR 30_000 and, from then on, with this new model, the funding is EUR 500_000 for all municipalities, a maximum of EUR 500_000, regardless of the number of pupils from this rural school, who can reach up to thirteen. So last week, with the Presidential Councillor, with the Climate Action Councillor, Food and Rural Agenda, what we did was present the results of this plan. We present a plan and explain how it worked. I face the coming course we create fifty-two schools rural bressol nines – fifty-twos. So, practically double in a year. Let's move from seventy current rural Bressol schools to 122 the coming course. And that's what we do from the Department of Education, from the Government, always – always – with the will to serve the students, making things happen and so our children..., equal opportunities, equity, viscose where they viscose, in order to, as the President says, universal Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.33.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the reinforcements to improve educational care. [[Ask the Government about reinforcements to improve education]] [[310-00351/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Palacín, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counsellor Cambray, it's been a difficult course. In fact, there are already two courses that, despite the covid-19, have guaranteed education by the education service. We understand that it could not be otherwise, because it is an essential service. We've always defended that the choices were, that's for sure. And, for that reason, despite the extraordinary conditions to which we have faced, we know that the department, from the very first moment on, has guaranteed an essential public service to give response to the pedagogical, social and community emergence. Some students had already suffered an economic and health crisis. It was therefore essential to avoid an educational crisis. And that's how it happened. That is why the Government – at that time Vice President Aragonès, Councillor Vergés and Councillor Bargalló – presented a face-to-face return plan to the educational centres with a reversal of 370_million and about five thousand more teachers and professionals. And you, counselor, have continued with determination this plan of open and secure schools, ensuring education for children and young people in the country. Now, two years later, but still with harsh effects for the economy and public system of this country, the Spanish Government has decided to withdraw the covid funds, which helped to cope with the expenses to guarantee a quality education system, especially for the most vulnerable students. Once more, we see, therefore, how we have a state that has other priorities and denies our resources, that does not shake his heart to withdraw the covid funds, but sometimes it is able to increase the military supposition by 4,500_million, still avoiding the Congress. Before, therefore, the lack of responsibility of the Spanish Government, we would like to ask you, counselor, about the nine measures that the Generalitat will take, its department, to deal with the situation and to continue to guarantee a quality education system the proper course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.35.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.36.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Palacín, you explained: while continuing to demand the maintenance of these extraordinary covid resources, the Spanish Government withdraws them on August 31st. And, therefore, we are faced with a need to educate the country, to educate Catalonia, to keep part of these resources. And, therefore, in a situation where the pandemic has not gone through what it does to the emotional effects, to the social effects– we have more vulnerable students than we had before the pandemic and the student we have vulnerable is more vulnerable than it was before the pandemic–, what we do is to maintain an extraordinary effort..., and we will keep from the Education Department, from the Government, all the resources referred to, the education staff, the social integration techniques at the educational centres; we will keep all the resources of the social educators at the educational centres and we will keep all the resources of the childhood education techniques at the complexity centres. Therefore, we are deploying a maintenance programme of 523 professionals, to which we must add 2,441 teachers, teachers, educational staff, who are structurally integrated, in addition to the professionals we have now in front of the coming course. This program, this maintenance of these 523 professionals of educational assistance, we have signed up to sell with all trade union representatives of the intercentre committee. We have been selling with the workers' unions this agreement, an agreement that has to imply a point of inflection in the relations of the Department of Education with the unions, so as to keep the course coming a course with the highest normality after three years of pandemic and always always thinking about what is best for the student. The same day, with this intention, with this objective, putting all the energies we have put in and we will continue to put in, I gathered with the union representatives also of the teachers and teachers, of the teachers. We want a deal. We have made different proposals in agreement and we are convinced that we will soon reach an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.37.0	Asks the Government to respond orally in full on attacks on prison staff [[Ask the Government about attacks on prison officials]] [[310-00341/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jeannine Abella, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, very good morning. In the first place, she advises, let's feed her the work that her department is doing throughout the prison, highlighted for the history lack of reversal and often to be managed because it plays and not because we believe in a real model of reinsertion. In more than a year of government, it has stated that the Catalan prison system has many shortcomings that, in fact, have to be addressed: damaged installations, lack of women's restraints that allow for the equality of conditions between internal and internal, reduction of violent incidents, improvement of the working conditions of employees, multi-disciplinary training of staff working in prisons and a long, etcetera. We are grateful, therefore, that your department has wired to the needle to reverse these situations. In terms of reintegration, the Catalan prison model refers to Europe. Still missing, we have a very good system, but in the country model we work for, we want a prison model that goes to excellence. That's why we believe together for Catalonia – and that's why we approved it at this week's National Congress – that the Catalan prison system has to be considered a state structure, because in the end it's a reflection of the society we live in. Mental health problems and attacks, both on the street and in prison, have increased, especially after the pandemic. Last week we had to regret a new incident at Puig de les Basses prison, where an intern assaulted a clerk, who had to be transferred to the hospital, to whom I take advantage from here to wish him a good recovery. We need safe arrests, for the inside and for all the professionals who work there. Cases of interns with aggressive behaviors, once analyzed the data, are a relatively low percentage, but they do cause high risk situations. The new containment circular, agreed between others with the functionaries, has the zero-content objective to help resolve risk situations without violating internal rights and providing security to the functionaries to act in these types of incidents. Of course it's not the only measure. And here's my question, Counselor: What is the government's capture of the attacks before you operate in prison centers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.39.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.40.0	Many thanks, honourable Member, for your real interest in the situation that is experienced inside the prisons. Especially, I want to add to solidarity with all the public servants who have suffered the recent attacks, deeply regret all these attacks and, above all, the last that has occurred in Puig de los Basses. It is a capture of all the secretary of criminal measures working with depth in this reality of the pressures we have encountered – as we have said before, some prisons with a lack of endemic investments – and now need structural reforms. Structural reforms that have to be addressed to the most patented and that pass to have above all a good diagnosis of what is the reality that passes to the prisons, what is real, what is, what is happening, what are missing, to guarantee both the security of internal people as well as the security of public servants, with a single objective, that is to continue to increase the success in the reintegration of these people deprived of freedom. To this end, we are working in various measures, many of them structural, which we take with courage, with determination, with the same determination that we condemn the attacks suffered. That's why we're working hard on the data. You have pointed out a reflection of these data and, if it is true that if, then, the attacks during the first six months of 2021 – attacks that required the downsizing – were to be registered one _twenty; in the same period, they were recorded twenty-three– or, still, only three fewer, in principle–, it is not less certain that these attacks are much more virulent. They're much more virulent, much more aggressive, and much more powerful. In addition, we have made a specific calculation for all the attacks that are framed in the sexual sphere. In the sexual sphere, I am not referring only to physical assaults, but also to genital displays, inappropriate comments between internal properties or between functional ones. Therefore, we are doing a detailed analysis of the data that give us all this lack of coexistence to the prisons. For this reason, we have created a multidisciplinary team, which means that it will make a specialized intervention design qualitatively – not quantitatively – analyze the reality of the people taken at the time of making personalized treatments. We are developing specific security protocols in special departments. We're preparing security cells to prevent the leash ducts from reverting to attacks inside the cells and being perilous inside. To this end, we have already bought, we have invested more than 3_million euros in flame retardant material – of mattresses, coats, etc. – to give more security to prisons. And, finally, it's an opportunity, both demonstrations and proper union elections, to pose... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.41.0	Time's up. [[Ask the Government about the balance of the political course of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert]] [[310-00342/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the balance of the political course of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert. The question is posed by Mr Quim Jubert, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.42.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Alsina, MPs and MPs, for Junts for Catalonia, the president's party in exile, having a Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert that follows the spearhead to the country's international projection is cabal, because our world is the world. The Department has a project, a short-term, medium- and long-term project, as long as there was no such project, to highlight the importance of the expansion of government delegations abroad, the consular hub to establish relations and to put down the diplomatic mission accredited to the country with Catalan reality and the number of activities in which it is involved, the new strategy to serve the municipal world, the wear and tear of relations with the European Commission – obstacles to these years since Spanish diplomacy – the reactivation and reformulation of the Diplomat announced a few days ago, the fact that four of the Department's euros are destined for cooperation. In this past year, since the Parliament, we have contributed to positioning Catalonia in the world as a responsible actor. We've done it with our vote. We are the only party that combines the highest national ambition with a proposal for the international arena comparable to the one that defends the democracies around us. But the one we regret, positions taken in front of the gallery that do not benefit the image of Catalonia, as the recent statement about Israel. The convention celebrated this weekend, and in the march of approved ponies, this was clearly reflected. Her uncomplicated leadership, Counsellor Alsina, with strong positions, has been essential and will help align the government's policies with the country's public opinion. So, we wanted to ask you, Counselor, what's the balance of your first political course to the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.43.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.44.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, when a balance is struck, because you are well, that you have done the work and also that you can prove, therefore, that certain results have been achieved. And that, when we take stock of the work we did from the outside, at the end of this first political course in which we were able to do the work, so we are not happy and, beyond complacency, we will continue to work and improve. But he wanted to start by making a very sincere and heartfelt thank you to all the delegation workers, the government delegates and all the staff of the house for their commitment and their involvement in all the policies we have promoted since the department. They are workers who have rejected many attacks, and many direct ones, the last years and who continue to do so. So, start by donating them - here's the thank you. At the end of this political course, I said that we have made an assessment of what we have done so far and we have detected three needs, three opportunities that I would say that to a good extent we have been able to solve during this year. And also, like we're the data department, we've been trying to translate it into some data. First, the need to give muscle to a department that was young and needed to grow and consolidate. And we have been able to do so through a presuppositionary increase of the 20-per-cent we have executed and that allows us to remodel. Also through necessity, the premise that we feel that we represent Catalonia internationally should be done with a state mindset, that it was important to travel more and more intensively, to have these contacts for the defense of Catalonia's national interests. This has resulted in seven trips in seven different countries, not counting visits to the capital of Europe in Brussels, which are part of the day-to-day life. By expanding the network of delegations, we will cover a forty-sis_per_cent more countries at the end of this year, reaching it to cover sixty-three through these antennas that we have in the world. Dealing well and attentively with the accredited consular body that we have in Barcelona with monthly acts, therefore, to show them the projects of our country, and, finally, driving a holistic external action to the service of everything, also of the public, of the assemblies and the private ones of this country. Finally, it has also seemed important to us to position a series of... perhaps some bases, a series of positions on important issues that pass into the world and that allow us to consolidate as a reliable partner at the international level, and that people know who we are and what we think of issues like Russia, Ukraine, the Abraham Agreements, the Atlantic Alliance and many others. Thank you very much, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the latest announcements by the President of the Government of the State. [[Ask the Government about the latest announcements from the President of the Government of the State]] [[310-00343/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.46.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President Puigneró, during the last weeks the Spanish government of PSOE and Podemos has been announcing a whole set of measures that are, if not, unheard of. But if you stand out for some reason, it's because it's obvious that they are the result of Pedro Sánchez's constant improvisation. On the 25th of June we met the announcement of a 50_per_cent bonus for public transportation and on the 13th of July, not one_month later, in the wake of the debate on the state of the nation, it was reported that this serious 100_per_cent bonus. Once again, from the government of the State, policies are adopted based on an absolutely centralist model that does not take into account the territories, the specificity and the uniqueness of the state of public transport and the existing models of mobility. It is clear that a measure of these characteristics will have a very different impact on each territory and we are particularly concerned about this later announcement because it means applying it to a rail service of Rodalies and Adif more than deficient, marked by constant delays, damage and mismanagement of the service. From Catalonia we have demanded many times the transfer of the rolling stock service in order to be able to deploy to the whole country of Railways of the Generality and thus provide a better public transport service to the Catalans of the territory. And do it from here and with good funding. Because it is very different to manage a fund for public transport than to manage an ad made to run full of small letter that we don't know yet. Because, for example, the train between Tortosa and Barcelona at the Sants station is two hours and a half, regardless of the frequent delays. This isn't good for you, it's bad for you, it's worse for this network of Renfe Rodalies. Under the circumstances, nine measures are announced when some of those we repeatedly claim have not been implemented. A concrete case: it is necessary to correct the elimination of the Euromed parade in the village and restore its service, which is very important for users of the Lands of Ebro and Tarragona Camp. Vice President, I'm sure you'll share with me that fewer improvised announcements and more efficiency in the Rodalies Renfe rail service. That is why, from Juntes, we would like to know what value it makes of the latest announcements by the President of the Spanish Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.47.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.48.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Miri, the first to fall is less populist measures. We thought populism or populist measures were the heritage of the Lords of the Commons and Podemos, but I see that the Socialist Lords join the feast, join the feast of "all for free." And they need to know that the "all-free of today's habit is to be the details of tomorrow and, therefore, what we already know is that this populist measure, at the moment, the one that will provoke the ATM, the transport system in Catalonia, is a EUR 50_million drill. But we also know, because we have read it in different information, that this will assume that Renfe will stop charging between 150 and 200 million euros as a result of this measure. Look, I'll make you a proposal, and I'll make the proposal to the minister. Wouldn't it be better with these 200_million euros proposed without measures to improve Rodalies Renfe's service in Catalonia? Some examples. Listen to me, with these 200_million euros they could buy, for example, twenty-i-five rolling trains, twenty-i-five trains. Or, for example, you could make the Montcada tunnel that would allow you to lower the R4 by two minutes on the Manresa tram to Barcelona, and therefore place it around an hour. Or, for example, as Mrs Sales commented, we could restore Euromed's service to the Village and that service we could hold for a hundred years, with these 200_million euros. Fix the projects that could be made if you don't take these populist decisions. In short, measures to improve the service. This is the great measure that Rodalies Renfe users are waiting for in Catalonia. Stop making inventions with Rodalies. In this case, we ask the Socialist Party to stop making inventions with Rodalies, and that, finally, the great measure that the citizens expect and above all the users of Renfe to Catalonia is that this service is passed on to the Generality of Catalonia. That's a clam. And you just have to look at what the CEO says, as the eighty percent of Catalans already ask for this transfer. Let's hope we've got respectful news of our vacation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.49.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the same. [[Ask the Government about the same]] [[310-00345/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Silvia Paneque, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.50.0	Thank you, Counselor. I will insist on the lack of water in Catalonia, because it is a difficult problem, and, moreover, the ACA has already warned that it can be forced to restrict access to water even more. I don't know if you've satisfied Mr. Lucas Ferro with your answer before, but in any case, this second I think you have the opportunity to deepen. In any case, we would like to know specifically who are the emergency and strategic policies that the Government envisages for water management in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.51.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.52.0	Well, thank you, President. In any case, before we speak of it: the embassements, at forty-seven_per_cent, around forty-seven_per_cent. I also want to recognize responsibility on the part of everyone. To give examples, to the city of Barcelona, the city of Barcelona, a person spends less than one hundred_litres per person per day, or, to Dinou comarques, less than one hundred_thirty_litres per person per day. Therefore, we know of responsibility on the part of everyone. And also some of the administrative problems that some comarques have. Let's talk about it a few weeks ago at Segria or the Garrigues, but I also want to talk about some gatherings of the Conca de Barberà, Moianès, Baix Penedès, Vallès Occidental or Bages, among others. In any case, we talk to the mayors and we talk about how to resolve these situations, which many see to be raised because their aquifers, of which they usually had water, are coming down alarmingly. But we have to do something and we also have measures to deal with its effects. On one side, the ACA, lines opened to the municipality by sub-administrations; in the hardest cases, also, in the transport of water per tank, that obviously we would not want to arrive, but in some cases it is so; but also by execution of works of emergency, or seven lines of help, more structural, by better sub-administrations. And, as we said before, we've been activating this plan at once to anticipate water shortages and provide for territorial measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.53.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.54.0	He will advise, I insist: the climate change, which is becoming more evident this summer, accelerates and stifles the water restrictions in Catalonia. At hours of the day, in some Catalan municipalities there have been restrictions for fifteen of the twenty-four hours of the day. The total capacity of the reservoirs of the internal shells of Catalonia, as you say, is at forty-sep_per_cent. But it's a year ago we were at 83.49. And if we take longer, the middle of 2022 is much worse than the middle of the last two years. Almost three hundred municipalities in Catalonia depend on rainwater, and this makes the situation much more critical. For example, Moianès: nine of its municipal deities have no access to the high supply grid. To the south, too, water deficiency; Siurana's embassement is fourteen_per_cent. In fact, of the different embassies, aquifers and other units of exploitation in Catalonia, nine, fifty_per_cent, are at the same extreme..., severe. A few weeks ago, effectively, the Generalitat responded with subsidies for tanker trucks. It's a necessary emergency response, but it's not a structural response. Hundreds of municipalities in Catalonia cannot depend on rainwater or tanker trucks. A few months ago I said that the plan at the same time was necessary but not enough. I'm insisting today. And, on the other hand, we wanted to offer a national water pact to Catalonia. What's the point? To combat periodic water access crises with a more efficient system in the management of our water resources. Your dues aren't done, Counselor. It is necessary to invest €1,100_million between today and 2027 to create water regeneration infrastructure. The last major reversal is the year 2009, and I remind you that 2022 has reduced water supply by 100_million euros. Today, she advises, there are countries with less rainfall than Catalonia that do not suffer from these restrictions thanks to modern water regeneration systems. If you want to undertake these structural and strategic changes that you are today a fan of everything obvious and necessary, our... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.55.0	Time's up. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.56.0	Thank you. Well, I keep explaining things to him. From one side, what we say before: the government has learned from what we have experienced in the past few years. That's why we have better detection tools in case, then, of even in municipalities. Also, we have invested more than 100_millions from 2016 to 2021 for the better supply to municipalities. And, in fact, in October there will be a new call of €20 million for other improvements. Therefore, the current scenario does not imply restrictions, but rather that it involves the deployment of alternative resources; of a band, desalinators, but also regenerated water – importantissim –, but in waste, and demand containment measures, it is obvious. But also address with the joints the state of the emergency plans at least. And we're doing it. Therefore, today the message is of peace, in the sense that it does not pierce the water of mouth; it is not of alarmism, but of intense work, of preventive work, because obviously all the people that we are in this hemisphere, deputies, deputies and the government, we do not want to reach a worse level of restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.57.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the fires in the Bages. [[Ask the government about the fires in the Bages]] [[310-00346/13]] The question is posed by Mr Cristòfol Gimeno, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.58.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor Elena, I want to ask you about these fires we've suffered, we're painted at Bages. We've shared these days, counselor, a few moments of great tension, anxiety and denial and concern. And we saw the flames advancing to forest, urban and urban areas. We've been a little bit of the dog, and I appreciate it. And we have understood, also from the first hand, the reaction of the veins and veins of different peoples and nuclei, with all the cruelty of their feelings, of impotence, of rage and of rebroadness. I want to take advantage of this moment, all that has already been done, to publicly recognize the efforts and professionalism demonstrated for all the different emergencies, for the bombers, for the squadron movements, ADFs, civil protection, rural agents, emergency medical services, assembly staff and local councils, for the comings and comings, volunteers, for all of them, and also for the mayors, governors and governors, who have also been at a bit of the canon. And I also want to take advantage of our group and move the support and scale to the affected. And tell them that we will not leave them alone and that we will accompany them out of this future that surely at these times they see so black and so uncertain. And it is here, Counselor, in this sense, that I want to ask you what concrete support and resources are planned by the Government of the Generality to help the affected and the joints to restore the cremated areas and the services affected, and what concrete measures the Government is proposing to improve the management of our forests.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.59.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.60.0	Well, let's start, so, too, deputy, president, thanking all the public servants for the work they've done these days with the difficulties, right? That they had to do it, with the difficulties they had to face. There's been a very, very strong fire, a very fast one, which has gone forward, so 1,700 hectares and, which is tougher, housing and the lives of many people, because there they had all their lives. And, therefore, a deep thanks to all the public servants; also to the governors, the mayors, who have been at the edge of the canon, as has also been the Government of the Generality, at the side of the people, at the side of the public servants, and will continue to be there. In times of special difficulty, in times that have had to explain very complicated things, there we are, with the comings and comings. And we will continue to feel, giving concrete support, from Social Rights; we will continue to feel from Habitatage; we will feel from all government departments, of course, as we have been these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.61.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Cristòfol Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.62.0	Yeah. Thanks for the explanations, counselor. I understand very well. But, look, it can't be that the assemblies are the only ones that demand the compliment of the regulations. And it can't be that mayors and mayors of small and very small town halls have to manage public and private woods. We need to amend Law 5/2003, which regulates forest fire prevention measures, in rural areas and in urban areas. And the generality must assume the skills it has. Destiny more economic resources for forest management, as does the Barcelona City Council, for prevention and planning and also for the execution and maintenance of perimeter fringes. As far as decisions are concerned, as far as practical and feasible solutions are concerned. Lead these decisions and, if they do, they'll keep us at their side.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.63.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.64.0	This morning I had the opportunity to talk to the operatives and they told me that the fire is still not in control, because the other day, in one of the towns, yesterday late, there were some problems. It seems to me inappropriate, if I may, all, to donate the circumstances, at the moment we are, with a fire that is still alive, with bursts that still exist. That said, the Government of the Generality, as I said, will be there. And it will also be in the fire prevention and it will be in the extinction. For this reason, in the last assumption, resources for fire prevention and forest management were multiplied by six. And it may still be necessary, but they have multiplied by six, because it is and will be a priority of this government, and particularly of the Climate Action Council. But the one that's the most uplifting today. These days we have been at the side of the assemblies, at the side of the mayors, at very difficult times, but the morning, when the fire was stabilized, we were there too; we were also at the front of the streets explaining where it was; we were also helping the comings – the Bombers Cos – explaining them in which cases it could be entered or not, very hard, and we were there afterwards, with Social Rights, talking to the comings, and we would still feel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.65.0	Time's up, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.66.0	...doesn't have any doubt... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.67.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the measures envisaged to avoid habitating occupations during the summer. [[Question to the Government on the measures envisaged to avoid housing occupations during the summer]] [[310-00347/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eva Candela, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.68.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counsellor Elena. According to recent news, the tourism sector foresees some very positive data for this summer and, above all, for internal tourism, in a high percentage. This means that in many communities of homeowners there will be less activity than usual, less activity than life, which can make the occupation of habitats easier; habitats that are already empty for some reason or good habitats that will be empty during the holiday period. The concern for our lives and our lives for the possibility that their habitation or a habitation of their community may be occupied increases considerably in the months of summer. We followed carefully his explanations of the end of June explaining the summer plan. Counselor, there has been a list of the effects that are increasing, the hours and where there will be greater deployments of effects. It was about the most important stage of the decade, with an impact on great events, great concentrations and major festivals. And he talked about priorities – citizen security, sexual violence, theft, forced and violent robberies, acts against people; actions without any very important, essential doubt. But we found that we could not reassure our fellow citizens on an important issue that is very negated, as many mayors and mayors have also shown, the occupation of housing. Counselor, what measures did the Government plan to carry out in order to avoid habitating occupations during the summer?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.69.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.70.0	President... Congresswoman, thank you very much. Actually, it's a concern. And, therefore, it is also a priority. In this sense, the increase in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is part of this concern and concern. The fact that today we're better prepared, why? , because we have more than 1,500 agents after the calls of these two, three years later, and to be much more so as the consequence of the following, to give more service, more patrol, more presence and also more investigation, more investigation to the service to finish with certain structures that many times has gone beyond this type of occupation. Also the crime that carries associated according to five types of occupations. In this sense, we were now talking to Congressman Ernest Maragall of Barcelona, every three days he intervened the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, every three days, at a home, to avoid this type of occupation and this type of behavior. There will be – there will be – and, therefore, it will naturally be a concern for us. And we're coordinating with the local cops. And we're coordinating with the branch media services and the social services of the different branches to get to know what's going on and get there better. Miri, I'll give you an example. In the city of Terrassa there are one hundred and sixty occupations in the year 21, but there were 2,500 incidents in the city of Terrassa linked to the occupation. It doesn't mean there's 2,500 occupations, only warnings about this, that have come true in one hundred and sixty. What does that mean? That very many and very many occupations have been solved, in this sense. Now, there have been one hundred and sixty and, therefore, we take care of ourselves and worry about ourselves. And that also necessarily implies questions related to legislative changes that then, if I have an opportunity, at a time I will comment on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.71.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.72.0	Thank you for the explanations that you give us and the ones that you will then give us. But, look, the occupations in Catalonia are still on the rise, with the consequences that we all know at the level of coexistence and security in many, many cases. Mafia organizations that specialize in housing, are for them a business every time more beneficial, therefore, to sell more keys to needy families, being careful, and not little, to unoccupied housing. Can you tell me how many complaints about the sale of keys or how many complaints about pests in occupied habitats or how many actions for criminal activities have you dealt with Mosos in occupied habitats? This is a concern of the citizenry and we cannot go from points to this problem. It's time to face her. We'll talk about this again tomorrow in plenary session. I, counselor, more... I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.73.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.74.0	Of course, every day and every raccoon in the country, and that's the way it is. And we're talking, in any case, all the time about criminal and organizational occupations, as you said, mafias and so on, and so many that are resolved. And now, among all of us, we also need to talk about legislative changes that need to help resolve this situation. And in this sense, in the same way that, respecting multirecidence, we have not spoken and reached agreements linked to legislative changes, I am sure that they are also capable of doing so in this case that creates many difficulties... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.75.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights]] [[310-00344/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights. The question is posed by Mrs Laia Estrada, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.76.0	In the first place, Counsellor Verge, we want to convey our support and solidarity to you as well as to the rest of the syndics of the U of October. We already know that, although we have some joys, repression does not stop. And that said, I want to ask you, do we want to ask you what you are doing to stop the current global offensive against our sexual and reproductive rights?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.77.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.78.0	Many thanks for your support for the cause of the Electoral Union. The Government is fully committed to ensuring sexual and reproductive rights and, for the first time, counts on a specific national strategy and from the most concrete questions I have, therefore, we can comment on the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.79.0	To answer the question, you have the word Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.80.0	Miri, I won't ask you another question. You know perfectly well that in those questions that we are working on, such as ensuring access to voluntary interruption of pregnancy throughout the territory to public health or advancing towards a sex-affective education or ensuring menstrual and contraceptive equity or combating obstetric violence, there are many shortcomings, many limitations and a lot of work to do. But the big problem is you're not doing your own government plan. For example, in the follow-up plan for human rights defenders linked to Catalonia, they have not only not made this plan, but you are aware that the extreme right is going to be for entities defending sexual and reproductive rights, and therefore human rights, and they are not doing anything about respect. And these entities do not know how to accompany them, although they are even invited to participate here in Parliament, exposing them even more. And they are also not fulfilling their commitment to combat all the ideologies that promote hatred, racism and discrimination. In fact, they're doing the opposite, because you're continuing to feed economically these phonementalist entities that deny our sexual and reproductive rights, deny our right to abhorrence and deny our right to have access to sex-affective education. And, therefore, counsel, we will again claim that your government, that you will be old because your government does not give more money to these fundamentalist entities; if we do not only ask for the UPC, it is demanding the feminist fabric of the country, it is demanding that I stop subsidizing them. We are aware that these subsidies have not yet been awarded and therefore we ask that they apply the Law 19/2020 and that they do not allow anyone who violates this law, who discriminates, who denies our sexual rights and repeats that, we insist, they are human rights, and who has access to public resources. Why with all due respect, counsel, whose face will you participate in the act of September 28th, International Day for the Decriminalization of Abortion, if neither you nor your government are able to deal with this phonenalist? We have the conviction that we share the time of making the Catalan Countries a referent in the guarantee and defense of sexual and reproductive rights. We know that, but this requires concrete and courageous actions from today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.81.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.82.0	So you respect finance and more to make it clear that the government doesn't finance any action, no concrete project that it has as its object or that it can violate sexual and reproductive rights, and to make it clear that the main source of funding for the fundraiser groups are the great fortunes, the president of the English Court, according to what has been published, huh? Builders, real estate... But in any case, in the call of the Department of Equality and Feminisms there will be a specific line of financing for the defense of sexual and reproductive rights, for entities working in this field, and also the requirement to all entities that they want to compete for the call to respect the four laws of equality – 17/15, 11/14, 19/20 and 17/20 –, enclosing it, therefore, this guarantee of non-violation of sexual and reproductive rights. At the same time, for what he does to the defense line, we started working on it. We are canvassing the different entities, not only in the area of sexual and reproductive rights, but also, because they are defenders of human rights, through an inquiry, we can detect who are the types of attacks, how they are most frequently manifested and what is the line of action we can take. So we collect all this feedback. Obviously, it's a line of action that doesn't go exclusively to the government. It also passes through the Parliament, because if we talk about the intergroup or other spaces, here is the Parliament that has a responsibility for this guarantee. And for what it does to the right of access to aneurysm, so, as you know, since last May, the number of points of pharmacological and surgical IVE has widened, advancing in this territorial equity, which still has a way to resort to, but which is working intensively, and also to ensure that all women, apart from the administrative situation – this is a point of the government agreement of the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights – can be accessed. And how the Department of Health has the obligation to travel to make this guarantee of access, and if it is appropriate to work on it on a case-by-case basis..., but there is a problem of background in the municipal sphere and ownership, and that is why from the department, in September, we also start training with municipal technicians and technicians, joint secretaries and elected officials, because I know what the law says about ownership and that they apply it correctly, accompanied by a guide that we have worked with municipalist entities to make this right to the ownership... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.83.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about dispensing cancer drugs to patients]] [[310-00338/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the dispensation of medicines against cancer to patients. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.84.0	Thank you, President. Counseller i Doctor Argimon..., we have recently known that Catalan health refused to fund Trodelvy, an immunotherapy directed by the European Medicines Agency, which was and is the only possible therapy for a breast cancer patient of the most aggressive type there is. Later, to you, better said, you have given an order that you will be paid, which honors you, honors you very much. But how did we get here? Why has the patient's husband had to disburse nearly 30,000 euros by paying the Trodelvy out of his pocket? How many families do you think there are in Catalonia who can resist such pressure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.85.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.86.0	Thank you, President. Member, in the first place, the oncological treatments in our country are guaranteed. The case you are considering, as I was saying, is a case, a medicine, more so, approved by the EMA, but it is not included in the public service portfolio in Spain. I the National Price Commission, the Interministerial Price of the Drug, has not considered this treatment cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.87.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.88.0	Counselor i Dr. Argimon..., we have spoken here other times on the dark side of public health. Are you listening to me, Mr. Salvador Illa? How do you feel about everyone complaining about what their ministry was? What idea of public health does the most progressive government in history have, which all seems too expensive to put in the service portfolio? Almost one more year of life is given by the oncologists, taking Trodelvy, to a forty-three-year-old woman who has a six-year-old daughter. Between a ministry in limbo and autonomous communities in ruin, such as ours, the barrier-free house and fundamental rights without respect, because the Trodelvy has been administering free to some patients yes and others not, according to the public hospital in which they fell. The patient we talked about, which you and I, Mr. Argimon, talked about, fell halfway to private health and the public, because it turns out that your oncologist worked for both of us. And if the private woman recommended the Trodelvy – paying, of course – at almost five thousand euros the dose, this same oncologist, when she put on the robe of public health, told her that it could not be, that it was impossible to authorize it. And in the end, it turns out there were ways. Other public hospitals had already found them. You've found them, too. These things raise terrible doubts. I'm not going to ask you, Dr. Argimon, to pull out the ear of private clinics from the public health doctors. I know we wouldn't run out of doctors. But I am going to ask you to raise the ethical list, and I am going to make a suggestion to you: in addition to funding the Trodelvy for patients who have prescribed it, have you considered returning the thirty-thousand euros spent by the family I'm talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.89.0	To answer, you have the words of the greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.90.0	This medicine that you have given me has been given to various patients in hospitals in Catalonia, either in compassionate situations or in special situations, which is the concept in which the EMA has approved it, but it is not at these times yet in a portfolio of services. Yes, it is true that this case, when the person requests it, is the moment when it is to be approved by the Interministerial Price Commission. We, as he was already carrying an administration in another environment, decided, I suppose, for the first person, we decided that this medicine should continue to be administered. I also say that at the moment this treatment, and I say at the moment, is not in the public portfolio of services, because we also need to know that the assessments are normally six or seven rounds, because at these times surely the pharmaceutical company that has been denied or said that this treatment is not cost-effective, will add. And this happens in high-complexity treatments up to six or seven times. So we'll have to wait. But I would also say that you ask this question in the Spanish Congress, not in the Parliament. I don't have... I'm sorry, Hi, we don't have the skills, which would please us. If they pass us, you already know that we will take them and with a lot of taste, with a lot of taste and with all the professionalism of the world, with a lot of taste, and from here on, what I come back to insist is that the oncological treatments are guaranteed to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.91.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the Government's external action. [[Ask the Government about the Government's external action]] [[310-00348/13]] Asks the question of the Member of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.92.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Counselor, could you tell us, albeit roughly, the expense we carry in embassies in this 2022?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.93.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.94.0	President... MP, I welcome your rediscovery of interest in external action, which is obviously legal, legitimate, useful, serving the national interests of Catalonia and the entire population. And I'm telling you that I'm rediscovering interest, because we've held so far eight sessions of the Foreign Affairs, Transparency and Cooperation Commission, and I'm aware that you've only attended two of them. So, I'd say I don't have to be a college teacher to tell him that two on the night is a suspended round.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.95.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.96.0	Yes, President. I also say to you, Counselor, that until cloning in my group is legal we will have it complicated to go to all commissions. [[Rialles.]] But, well, don't worry that I, even if I'm not present, follow it, and follow the action you do and the waste you carry in embassies. Only last year you spent EUR 7 million on your procedural embassies. And far from closing the, what they do is open up more, it's not going to be that there's any corner of the world where they don't have to endure their victimistic turban. I ask you what those embassies do, who they meet with, how much they cost us, for example, how you choose your delegates, on what criteria, what agendas these delegates have, Mrs Alsina. And this isn't the first time I've asked you. And I insist because you never answer me. In fact, the last time I asked you, you gave me two answers. The first is that they have delegations in other autonomous communities. The issue is that these delegations serve to promote the community in question and to attract foreign investment, and not like their own, which are therefore separatist mini-laboratories. And that, my friends, if you want to do it, do it, but with your money. And the second of the answers he gave me was what the Spanish Embassy of Japan spent on gardening, which I'm sure some of his advisers thought was very ingenious. But let me tell you that what you do is highlight your own shortcomings. Turns out you know what they spend in Japan on gardening, but we here have no idea what they do in those embassies. And, of course, I am more concerned about the wills that you try to buy with your biased and manipulated stories than what others spend on the hedge pruning. I insist, 7_million_of_euro cost us the embassies last year. Your delegates charge more than a minister: ninety thousand eurazos, Madam Councillor. And on top of that, no results, because nobody buys them the goods. We are leaders in taxes, waiting lists, barracks, insecurity, occupations, corporate flight and also waste and waste. Look, according to a study conducted last year by Impulso Citizeno, with those 7_million_de_euros, you, for example, would have been able to pay 450 temporary home caregivers or 155 places per year for residences for moderate dependents, 135 for severe dependents and 115 for large dependents. Go to these families now and tell them that, instead, you preferred to spend on propaganda and lobbying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.97.0	To answer, the letter has the advisor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.98.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I see today was a day to recover the classics from your questions. I appreciate the interest in multiplying and being able to attend the commissions. The Department of Foreign Affairs is at the service of everyone, is at the service of the companies, of the joint ventures. Actually, this is one of our approaches to counseling. And I deny his hypothesis, his argument of iniquitousness, that this does not reverse the welfare of Catalans and businesses. In fact, the data tells us that, for every euro that the government dedicates to making this takeover and international promotion of Catalonia, there is a return of 166_euros. This, if he knows any investor, will confirm, therefore, that it is a magnificent reversal in all cases. In the framework of all the activities, all the projects, all the trips that weave projects that have continuity and that are transformed into public services and policies, three very concrete examples – there could be many more. We were in Mont-real a short time ago; from here there will be a collaboration between the port from there and the port of Barcelona. We've been to Brussels lately; we worked, in this case, with the data protection supervisor; we'll work with him from now on on in terms of transparency. We were in Italy; we are working at national level with the Italian Republic in the field of the open government. And I couldn't say much more about these examples. In fact, I propose that we do the inverse exercise and that, since you ask me about the utility of the external department's existence, you answer me if it would be able to explain its utility to me through the work that it does in this Parliament. And, obviously, this is a rhetorical question, because I understand the discomfort that you feel that, after your party, your current party, I mean, you have destroyed, you have tried to destroy Catalonia's external action, you have gone and you have to attend the commissions where you confirm that we are growing, that we are consolidating ourselves, that we are muscular in the service of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the extension of carriages of the AP-7 motorway]] [[317-00199/13]] The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.100.0	Thank you, President. Why is your refusal to expand lanes in AP-7 despite the wild traffic jams being experienced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.102.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, we are talking to the Ministry of Transport about better transport infrastructure, especially in the AP-7, too. And, therefore, as he wanders into the accords, they will go out announcing. As I recall, our bet for transport, especially for the transport of goods, is the development of the transport of goods by rail, that Mediterranean Corridor which you have left forgotten in a cove and which is now very long to recover.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.103.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.104.0	Thank you, President. His party presented a motion for a resolution in which, in the face of the brutal traffic jams that were being experienced, they refused to extend lanes and proposed cosmetic measures, for example, the placement of strategic cranes or variable-speed instruments, which could be used for traffic of moderate density, but not for traffic jams that were being experienced. This also demonstrates in your motion for a resolution the enormous prejudices you have on this issue, when you point out – I quote in text – "the dependence too high on the private vehicle. Once again, their problem always arises: they refuse to manage reality and manage their ideology. Precisely because of this I will give you an exclusive first: people like to have their own car, people like to go out with their own car on vacation or weekend. I know how eccentric Catalans are. But that is well known to you, that public transport is always for others, but that you do not get out of the car or push when you have it. That which you love, but you deny others, is called freedom. And, of course, it must be compatible with mobility and sustainability. And I say'sustainability', because it is the second reason that your proposals tend to make. In that sense, I wanted to point out a couple of things to you. First of all, the countries that pollute the most in the world are precisely the least free. The aversion to the private car of totalitarian systems should be the best incentive to meet that idea. But in addition, in the specific case we are dealing with, nobody is asking them to open seven tunnels in the Pyrenees, we are talking about a simple extension of two very concrete sections of the AP-7 to decongest. In short, there are only two realistic and viable ways to end the wild traffic jams in the AP-7 – the widening of lanes or to free the C-32, Europe's most expensive highway – and you continue to deny both. The problem is that after the jams come the accidents – unfortunately, some tragic ones – and there you are forced to put real solutions, and not just their ideological prejudices, on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, that his party, which was the protagonist of the historic series of lower inversions of Catalonia in the matter of infrastructure, came to give lessons of infrastructure in this Parliament, should have had it looked at. First thing. Next. You, who are very capable rhetorically, use very often the argument of always trying to ridicule the position of the other; it has almost shifted to not knowing what authoritarian regime respects contamination. Miri, we are absolutely far from these positions. The future of transport is a future of transport, especially rail, in which you have consistently refused to put resources. Although the "rains of millions" that Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría came here to promise 2017 while preparing all the repression against the ones that we starred in the First of October, despite all that, all those announcements, there was no reality, there was no new roadway to transport workers and workers, to transport all the people that every day have to serve in their usual paths the railway, there has not been. Where there has been the expansion of railway lines made by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, if you believe that the technical discussion about who should be the bottom of the expansion of an AP-7 lane is, according to you, what is the great debate about the freedom we need to have and I think it was very wrong – I think it was very wrong – and basically freedom is that people and people can freely decide their future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the position of the Government regarding the candidacy of Spain to organize the football world of 2030]] [[317-00193/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.108.0	Mr President, last week there was a meeting of the Spanish Football Federation with envoys from all autonomous governments except Catalonia. The joint candidacy of Spain and Portugal for the football world championship of 2030 was discussed. You left the chair of Catalonia empty again. Mr Aragonès, do you also intend to put sticks on the wheels for the 2030 World Cup, as you have already done with the failed Winter Olympics?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.110.0	Thank you, President. Well, we'll talk football a little bit, Mr. Carrizosa. Listen to me, I don't know about it, and therefore I see that my parliamentary group has already put its hands in the head. [[Rialles.]] What I can tell him is that we're not prevented by anything. Now, what they can't ask us is enthusiasm for any project on the table. Therefore, from a meeting that was there, some state communication media have done here as if it were a great show of not knowing what we have against who we don't know... Listen, if there is a proposal, obviously it will be studied. There are many selections of the world that please me and I'd probably like to see Catalonia play.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.111.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.112.0	Well, do what you have to do to watch them play, Mr. Aragonès. Look, I remind you that, beyond your imaginary republic and your imaginary exiles, there is a real Catalonia that wants to pass the page of so much paralysis and so much agitation to return to the path of growth and of constructive and loyal cooperation with the rest of Spain. It is the Catalonia of entrepreneurs who sell most of their goods and services to the rest of Spain; the Catalonia that promotes cooperation between Madrid and Barcelona as an unbeatable tandem. That is the productive Catalonia and not the one you and the old Convergence represent. That Catalonia is looking forward to our country, Spain, hosting such important events as the football world cup of 2030, and to Camp Nou and RCD Stadium hosting the football world cup. Ask the directives of Barça and Espanyol how they see you leaving Catalonia's chair empty and endangering the participation of both clubs at an opportunity as important as a world-wide one. Not to mention the opinion of the respective amateurs, most of them eager to see a world in Catalonia again. Mr Aragonès, thirty years ago Camp Nou was filled with Spanish and Catalan flags to encourage the Spanish selection at the end of the Barcelona 92 Olympic Games. Some of you were already with your infected« Spanish steals from us, but Catalan society was vibrating with its selection and Catalans participated in the successes of Spain. And despite nationalism, those Olympic games were a success. Señor Aragonès, stop trampling on the feeling of most Catalans, stop putting sticks on the wheels and feel yourself in the chair of Catalonia every time they call, together with the rest of the communities, so that Catalans can enjoy again at home the successes of all Spain, which are ours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.114.0	Now, Mr. Carrizosa, you finally got them out, huh? The non-nationalism of" enjoying with the Spanish flags. This is theirs in the nationalist. [[Greetings.]] We are nationalists, but you, who vibrate with the flags of Spain, are not a nationalist. Of course, to have been – to have been –, a state for and a state that acts hard, many times you were relieved to defend your birth, because the State already does. Then, not pateixi, listen to me, not pateixi, that, in events that remain of relevancy and interest to Catalonia, we will obviously already show the interest, and we will not follow up. Now, a thought: pa and circ. Faced with a situation of inflation close to the deu_per_cent, you, who always give us lessons here that we don't worry about people's problems, you talk about football, that it's very respectable, that it's very important, that it has a lot of impact, but with the inflation that we have, with the difficulties that there are, with the challenges that there are... Well, I think that ending this session period in which you go to ask for the Spanish selection and how you vibrate – and I congratulate you because I don't do it, I don't get it, but you vibrate – so when you see Spanish flags is the best summary of what has been your parliamentary activity during this year and how you have benefited from the control sessions. So, so, good luck with the football, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.115.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the possible elimination of taxes on assets and estates]] [[317-00194/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.116.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Before I started my intervention, we would like to send all the support to the people who have been painting the fires and who are still painting the fires these days. And, of course, an infinite grace to all those who are fighting against the flames. That said, President, Catalonia is experiencing a strong economic and social crisis because of this brutal inflation that is blowing Europe. And we think that this is why Catalonia needs new assumptions, that they are expanding and that they are at the height of the country's needs. He knows that we, when Catalonia needs it, are there, and that is why we have already told him that we are in a position to negotiate these assumptions, obviously, with conditions. So far, we're saying that the 2022 presupposition agreement has to be completed. We also want to negotiate from the beginning and not at the last hour as before. And, thirdly, they must be an expansive and not a destitute account, as the decree they passed a few weeks ago to deal with the crisis. But it's also that now we're forced to include a new condition, a fourth condition of the Junts Congress this week, where they've overstated that they want to eliminate the inheritance tax and the property tax. President, I'm already telling you that we're not going to negotiate some assumptions that I'm talking about eliminating these two taxes, which are the most redistributive they have. And that is why we want to know if you believe that, in a context of economic crisis, it is time to eliminate these two taxes, that of assets and that of estates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.118.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Congresswoman. Before, allow me, that I have not had the opportunity to do so either, therefore, to show all the support to the people affected by the different fires, especially those who have seen their house affected. There are people who have completely lost their home. They've got her badly affected. Therefore, the consequences from the personal point of view will last months and we will be at your side, obviously, just as we will always be at the side of all those people who suffer from repression. And therefore, I am pleased that Anna Gabriel, therefore, has recovered this freedom of movement and, therefore, express all the respect and support for her decision, as well as, therefore, all the support for Councillor Verge before this repetition of the judgment to the syndics of the U of October reference. I'll take it. I'm sorry, for this reason, that I think it was necessary. I welcome your extended hand to talk about the assumptions. Councillor Giró has been speaking for the past week – the next fifteen days – with parliamentary groups knowing who are the margins in which we are moving from the premise and, therefore, celebrating the extended hand. And volunteering is working together. We have an understanding of the assumptions of the past year that the compliment is satisfactory and this should also allow us to move forward. In this sense, respect for fiscal matters, the governance plan is very clear, that it is to consolidate the current model, and, therefore, the current model, that there is an inheritance tax and a property tax, through environmental taxation measures. Therefore, no deletion is expected. This is a party position that respects, but it's not on the government board and, obviously, it's not mine either. Redistributive taxes must be preserved, especially at a time of economic crisis like the present. Two years ago it was withdrawn and it had to be repositioned because it would see the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.119.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.120.0	So thank you, President, because – I am going back to insist – they are the two most redistributive taxes that there are and that help equal opportunities. And, besides, it's two taxes that help us collect 1,400_million euros a year. With these 1,400_million euros, it is possible to make three hospitals, it is possible to make 178 institutes and also 28_kilometres of the metro line. I would ask for a little respect for the people of Junts, please. By all means – and I finish – I believe that Catalans and Catalans do deserve to know, therefore, before what government we are, whether we are before a government that wants to do social justice and also fiscal justice, or whether we are before a government, as Mr Puigneró said, who is against the freeness or the deregulation of public transport, and who wants to turn Catalonia into a tax haven like Madrid, the Madrid of the Lord Ayuso, which is a tax haven for the rich and a hell for the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.122.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member of Parliament, neither do we get emboldened. I mean, the government talks about government agreements and the government plan. And the plan of government, in this sense, is clearly to consolidate the current model, to bet on the development of environmental taxation. So, we're working on this line. At the same time, I am also saying, I believe that in the current context it is not the time of an increase in taxes because it would affect the living conditions of the population. And public services are to be sustained. That's the compromise. If we go with these lines, with you and with the groups you want, we can participate in agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the green revolution and the fight against climate change]] [[317-00197/13]] The question is posed by Mr Dani Cornellà, Member of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.124.0	Thank you, President. 2017 we approved the law of climate change. 2019 we declared the climate emergency in Catalonia. Today, July 2022, it's still worse. The country's falling and grinning. And you continue with the same fossil and denialist model. When do you plan to start the sacking that this country needs? And the green revolution he promised?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.126.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, we're already doing this. Before reference has been made, for example, to the episodes of fire that we are living, to which is the endowment of resources that there is in an aspect that is now in everyone's mouth at the time of commenting on the fires: What is needed in the best of forest management? So the support to all that are the perimeter fringes of habitats at the edge of the forest, which is municipal competence, which has the support of parliaments, counts also with the support of the Government of Catalonia, which has multiplied by itself in this assumption that we have drawn forward, despite that we have not been able to count with their vote, but I will not resign to not count there in the future. Fighting climate change is not the fight of a country. Catalonia has advanced legislation. There are other areas where we are moving too slowly, for example the deployment of renewable energies. Here I would also like to count on your cooperation, which I believe is relevant. It'll change the landscape. The question is, we decide from here. This has been the will of the decree we promoted and is the will of the government's policy. And then I'll have a chance to give you more details.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.127.0	To answer that question, Mr. Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.128.0	The advanced legislation I'm talking about is not the forest law of 1988, the decree for which forest fire prevention measures were established, which is 1995 or the fire law, which was made in 1994. Therefore, we have an existing legislation that does not contemplate the climate emergency scenario or the current reality of the country. You are limited to using the phrase "Fires go out in the winter and stay calm. But the problem is that this statement loses all meaning when it's been forty years or so. For example, in the Manresa fire department, neither in winter nor in summer, no one has fixed the problem they have with the water pressure and trig for an hour to fill the water path. And when the fires arrive, like the Bages, they are still good words and promises of more investments and, above all, complaints and empty phrases. But Manresa Park and the body continue to see presidents, councillors, governments, and things change. From here, too, a hug to all the people who have suffered these fires later. And, obviously, give thanks to whoever shuts them down. President, we need a radical change, a green revolution, but not the greenwashing it offers us. What we need is a revolution that ends with liberal policies that are leading us straight to the col·lapse. A revolution to face fires without precedent, a revolution of the hand of the page so that it serves so that agriculture and extensive rowing do not give up, to advance towards food sovereignty, an ecological revolution that poses ahead of the territory, putting more public resources for forest management, making a land reform and changing the territorial model to make it resilient to climate change and fix people to the earth. President, with a hundred and fifty people in the firehouse, he won't put up with the fire. What's needed is more investment in forest management. This will really put up with the fire. President, spat it out to start the green revolution or it will no longer be country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.129.0	To answer, you have the word of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.130.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, we have a country that is horrificly compressed, wrinkled, with a forest mass that occupies more than sixty per cent of the total surface area. This forest mass has to be managed. This is why we are working in the country's bioeconomy strategy, which must allow us to give income to what is forest exploitation of forests. And with the cluster on the edge of the skirt, it's also working in this direction, and I hope we can get some good news right away. That's what he does to forest management. For what it does to fire prevention and extinguishment. In prevention, we multiplied the resources by six. Until 2025–2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025– in total we will allocate 72_million euros. And then again, the 154 job places aren't firemen, they're firemen's support staff. From bombers, we are not putting 250 of us every year and we have done a process of modernizing the body of bombers that first was to update the EPIs, after the vehicles, now we go to the parks. And that's the way. And, in parallel, to increase what are the promotions of the bombardment body, to whom I want to aggravate again his work, and, obviously, to the rest of the emergencies that are collaborating and that they have, the Generality's Bomber Cos, an extraordinary strategic intelligence that has allowed us not to find ourselves with a fire of one... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.131.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the policies of the Government against the interests of Catalans]] [[317-00195/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.132.0	Mr Aragonès, how long will you continue to promote policies against the interests of Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.134.0	Thank you, President. We will always continue to promote policies in favour of the majority of Catalans, in favour of southern Catalonia, in favour of all Catalans, regardless of how they are, in keeping with the diversity of the country, which makes us strong and cohesive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.135.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.136.0	You're lying, Mr. Aragonès. I the evidence is that last week he held a meeting with the president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, whose results show once again the sluggishness of his management and how all his political action is only aimed at protecting the privileges of the rights of all those he has on his payroll. The other day, before the media, he spoke about fundamental rights, conflict with the Spanish State, judicialization or repression. They were terms to which we are accustomed, lies and mantras always, the same ones they used in 2017 to give a coup d'état; mantras whose only purpose is to protect yourselves and that separatist bourgeoisie responsible both for the ruin of the middle classes and the working classes. Because there is no mistake, Mr Aragonès, it is your policies that come into permanent conflict with the interests of the Catalans and it is your decisions that repress your desires not to have a better life. Policies such as the increase in political spending on services that we all need and with a public debt that we know well, more than EUR 84,000 million, which leads to indebtedness for future generations. Policies such as green legislation, their low-emission zones, their climate taxes on industries and nuclear power, which, of course, increase basic supplies and make us dependent on third countries. Policies, too, such as open borders, that create insecurity in our neighbourhoods and promote the expansion and implementation of Islamism in our neighborhoods, with automatically triggered crime and the creation of real ghettos in many of our neighborhoods. Policies, too, such as those applied in education, that break down the social lift and pervert its spirit of formation. Or policies against those who want to form a family, which prevent you young people from accessing housing and also squander the money from all your help. Because you well know that Catalonia today is the Spanish region with less offer and more expensive rent and sale of housing. Mr Aragonès, any responsible manager would take advantage of a meeting with the President of the Government to address these problems that I have commented on and, above all, seek solutions. The problem is that its management has always been characterized by doing the opposite, just like its Socialist Party partners.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.138.0	All right. The extreme right has discovered that we are independent – it has taken a few years to find out. In any case, in a few years' time, they will discover that we are republicans; in a few years' time, that we are progressives... It seems that the issue of compromise in the fight against climate change is clear to them, because they say 'climate phonementalists', which shows a great ignorance of the effects that climate change is having on most of the population, not only in Catalonia, but also of the rest of humanity. Because the forced displacements caused by climate change do not affect the richest people, they affect the most vulnerable groups. The problems of fame, of not properly addressing the fight against climate change at global level, do not suffer the privileged ones of who, they suffer the people, they suffer the majority of the people of many countries. It is surprising that it is about open border policy..., in fact, it is indecent that it is said that there is an open border policy when we see what is happening on the southern border of the Spanish State – in Melilla, for example – not for days. That I think is quite indecent from the political point of view and from the moral point of view. There is a model, that the model of the extreme right is always the same: it is to exacerbate the low passions, to offer easy solutions, to be those that promise the increase of public spending, the reduction of taxes, but at the same time not to fight the debt, it is to say, the square of the circle – absolutely impossible. Because the object of the extreme right has always been the same at the length of history; it has been, from the painful consequences that capitalism has on certain areas of the population, to denounce them by, after, power, to bring to an end the most ultra-liberal policies, the most ultra-capitalist possible. Therefore, we will remain committed to defending a country that is everywhere, a public service that reaches everyone, a political community that understands that cohesion is essential, for redistribution, for coexistence, and that understands that everyone has right to be part of the future of this country. Obviously, they don't have the right to be part of the future policy that they want to divide, that they want to marginalize us, and that they want to retaliate the rights of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.139.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the next meeting of the dialog table and the establishment of a winning strategy of independence]] [[317-00196/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.140.0	Very honourable president, president, members of the government, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. Last week, even more brutal war broke out to destroy the political trajectory of Mayor Trias, as was also known about the conspiracy of a whole Spanish National Court judge to detain the president after the 9-N consultation. That was 2014, with a government of the People's Party. Now, with the Socialist Party, things aren't very different. The government of Pedro Sánchez has been illegally spying on us and maintaining repression, which continues to grow – as Ómnium pointed out last week – with more than four thousand reprisals, as the U of October syndics, who now want to rejuvenate them because the feeling should not please them. Since the last meeting of the dialogue table, a year ago, the Socialist Party has not made any proposals. In fact, you said yourself rejected all the proposals related to the conflict to the debate of the state of the Spanish nation: neither did Pegasus nor amnesty nor res of res. Certainly, Mrs Albiach, EUR 1,400 million is a month of fiscal deficit that your government imposes on Catalans and Catalans. [[Greetings.]] Pedro Sánchez says he has good intentions, but he doesn't bring solutions. Moreover, all the contrary: it has approved with the People's Party, the Socialist Party, reforming the Euroorders. Is this the de-judicialization of the Socialist Party? President, next week there will be a new meeting of the dialog table. All of us know our position and Junts' scepticism for Catalonia, because the other band has no real predisposition to negotiation, it's biting cold iron. That is why, today, in this plenary, the last plenary session, before the general policy debate, which may be a turning point, we have a few weeks before all of us should be used to reflect, all of us, on the government's side and on the side of independence, are able to weave a winning strategy that is shared and involving everyone. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.142.0	Thank you, President. The position of your political group is not surprising either, Mr. Congressman. But I think what's important is that, while we agree to underline the problems, we try to find the solutions. And where there is a minimum possibility of finding solutions, in the anti-repression area, in the area of laying the groundwork for the political resolution of the conflict, I will be there. First of all, because it was the compromise with which I presented myself in the elections and I was given the confidence of the citizenry, in the elections, and enough of this Parliament to be president of the Generality; because it was my investment commitment, and then because it is the first point of the governance plan that we share: the resolution of the political conflict through a negotiation process. Nelson Mandela said that if you wait for the ideal conditions, these will never arrive. So what we have to do is work for, despite the fact that the conditions are not what we want, try to find solutions. I am convinced that you also want a solution. What I offer them again – the possibility – is that we build this folded solution with what we have now..., with the possibility that we have now. Can there be others? I don't know; let's wait for proposals of respect. But what we have now is the possibility to face again a negotiation with the State, that we already know what its position is, that we already know that it is an asymmetric negotiation, because the State is the one that has the strength and what we have to do is carry ourselves with reason. And, therefore, I invite you again to participate in the delegation of the Government of Catalonia in this table which is to be celebrated next week, which must be used by concrete agreements, in order to move forward with solutions. It won't be easy, but when there are some difficulties for me what they won't find is looking at me from the platter as it has difficulties within the sea, but it's putting me there, because here what it's about is not finding solutions for a Spanish government; it's about finding solutions for Catalonia's citizens. I'm convinced that we share that. So what we can do, too, is to put it into practice. There is my proposal, which is to deal with this negotiation with the State. If there is another concrete proposal, I am willing to value it. It's not about the table right now. I say this: "My proposal is this. I'm going to turn them around, ask them to help us form part of the solutions, as I am convinced that they are convinced that this is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.143.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the next meeting of the dialog table]] [[317-00200/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.144.0	Thank you, President. President, dialogue, negotiation and political solution are the way to resolve the conflict. I may be able to negotiate, and the first step is to learn and talk. They're not my words, I keep them to remember. We're right here, and there's why in political negotiation we always have to be. We know – we are not naive – that the negotiation for the resolution of a political conflict requires will, determination, recognition of the parties, equal conditions and guarantees. Some require them; we have always demanded them, and now we are building them. And for the coming week there will be methodology and guarantees of the negotiation process, but it will be necessary to demand and guarantee decisive steps in the anti-repressive mark. They are the minimum conditions that must enable us to face a negotiation process in order to address the root of the question: to resolve the political conflict; a conflict, let us remember, that originates because of the inability to give response to the demand of a eighty percent of Catalan citizens who want to vote to decide their political future in a free and democratic way. And it's in the negotiating table where the two governments, Spanish and Catalan, we need to know how to give an answer. We're building a window of opportunity. Deny it, the "not at all, not close to amnesty, self-determination, or independence of this country. The moment requires a long look; to let it lose and not to add effort is an irresponsibility that does not help us to move forward. For this reason, we prefer to take steps forward, to look for exits, to look for them, and here there is no one left. And from the other side we'll make them sweat because they're listening and because it's also concrete, because with sweat there's not enough. No one had ever been able to sit down before, and we all wanted it. To open the way is not easy, we know that, but we are here, without maximalisms empty of contents, but without giving up the object of amnesty and self-determination; without empty proclamations, but with the untenable principles of democracy and justice, and without trusting anything at all. We know who's in the other band and how they act. We know from the envelope the risks we face, political and personal. We know from envelopes that if we don't value our strength, they always win. That is why we will fight every millimetre to extend the repression of so many people in this country, and that is why we will also fight every millimetre to a future free, clean of corruption and socially just. President, in this sense, how does your government view the negotiating table for the coming week? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.146.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, the government will face this next session of the negotiating table with all the will to be able to reach concrete agreements that allow to reverse part of the repressive architecture that in the last few years has been developing in the State and that today is a stone in the way of the resolution of the political conflict. Our intention is, in this first phase, that we expect it to be short, but probably if it is short, it will mean that we will have achieved our objectives, but it will probably last a little longer than we want, it is that all this anti-repressive part is too advanced to be able to face what is at stake in the problem, which is the core of the question, which is the political relationship between Catalonia and the State and the lack of response on the part of the State to the vast majority of citizens in Catalonia who want to decide freely its future. Therefore, we go with this will. I think that citizenship needs us to speak to it clearly: it will not be easy, there will be many difficulties, but we are in the situation that we are, we cannot lose opportunities, because the alternatives, "how worse, better does not exist; how worse, worse, especially if we look back at what we have experienced in Catalonia in the past years and especially, therefore, in the years 17, 18, 19. Therefore, we will face the negotiation with all ambition, with this ambition; also with all the demands on the other side. It must be the first of a few rounds of negotiations that can advance the resolution of the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.147.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the forecast of nine meetings of the Council of the Social Dialogue of Catalonia and measures to deal with the effects of the economic situation resulting from the war in Ukraine]] [[317-00198/13]] Asks the question to Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.148.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, I also want, first of all, to express on behalf of my group the recognition of firefighters, body and security forces, rural agents, movements, local police, ADFs, pages..., everyone, in short, who has participated and is participating in the extinction of fires in Catalonia, the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. And I also want to do a recon in the joints pocket. I also want to show solidarity on behalf of my group to all people who have been affected and make a call to prudence in a few moments with very adverse climatic conditions. Mr. Aragones, it's almost five months of the attack in Ukrainian only on European values and, unfortunately, it seems that this is going a long way. The consequences of the war, particularly its effects on our economies, through inflation, will also widen. You summoned us to parliamentary groups twice, March 21 and April 12, to agree, to speak and to agree on how to respond to this situation. This chamber approved a decree mobilising EUR 120_million – I believe that with measures that have remained a bit short – with the favourable vote of my group. May 11th, in this same room too, in answer to a question from me, you stated that you were working, that you were still working in the Council of the Social Dialogue. That's two months ago. Mr Aragonès, at what point do you find the work in the Social Dialogue Council Mark referring to this point? How many meetings have you had? When will we get it, if we get it, news? Do you think you'll call the groups again to keep talking or to give continuity to the dynamic of work that you yourself set in motion? And did you plan to take further steps to respect?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.149.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.150.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Illa, the economic situation will be very complicated in the proper months. We will have very high inflation, as at least, during the next year. Let's hope it's lower than tonight, but it's gonna be great anyway. This decompensates the combination of economic activity and, therefore, will call for concrete measures, surgical measures, not general abst measures, because money is scarce and debt will be more difficult in the next few years. It will be more because and it will be more difficult, and we can find ourselves ahead of steps to go towards fiscal consolidation that can take European countries. Alemanya's started it. So let's keep this in mind. In this sense, what we need in order to be able to deal with measures in the measure of resolving or contributing to the effects of the situation that you denounced. First, resources. We asked to be able to have a greater margin of deficit. It's not a claim we make, a flag claim, to hear us. It's a demand because, if we don't have room to borrow – and who gives us permission to borrow is the Spanish government – we can't have more resources unless we bring them from another setting. And I think... go on, no one here is gonna ask us to go into detail in this sense. So, that didn't come up. We will have to deal with surgical measures, oriented to the sectors of the population that can most affect the effects of this high inflation. And that's what we're gonna do on our own. In the framework of the social dialogue, the social dialogue at these moments, pending an agreement of return at global level, which we give support to, is advancing with difficulty and I recognize it, but above all, because at these moments high inflation, if not accompanied by an agreement of return at global level, will make it very difficult not only agreements with the Generality, but also collective bargaining can advance. And I think we deserve to have an agreement in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.151.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Aragones, but I have asked very concrete questions and I have not heard any concrete answers to my questions. I was afraid, wasn't I? I was afraid that it was not intended to initiate a sincere dynamic of joint work to agree, with as much consent as possible, measures, and that more quickly it was intended to take a couple of photos. I've noticed and I don't think that's the way. In any case, my hand extended to take action in this land. He explained very well that the situation is complicated and we all know that. He's been complaining about resources. The Valencian Community has the same restrictions as other autonomous communities, it has mobilised 990_million euros, here we have not immobilized 120. In short, there is one thing that is said to govern, to make decisions, to prioritize, to which you have it. And, certainly, in favour – my group – in favour of the dialyg; also of the dialyg in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.153.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.154.0	When I saw that the government was mobilising 900_million euros, I asked directly how it had been financed. Couldn't execute the business solvency aids of the past year; we did. We are the territory that most executed them. And, therefore, these leftovers have been able to be used for this. So... [[Greetings.]] Because we care about other things and want to continue working with all governments. It will therefore be necessary to take action. They won't be easy, they can't go with demagogies. And Mr. Illa, you know me, I'm not for photos, I'm for work and I know it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.155.0	After the control session, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] [[Decree-Law 10/2022 of 5 July 2018 amending the Decree-Law 4/2018 of 17 July 2018, on which direct management of the water supply service to populations is assumed by means of the installations of the Ter-Llobregat water supply network as the ownership of the Generality and the creation of the Ter-Llobregat Water Supply Ens]] [[203-00027/13]] The debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 10/2022, amending Decree Law 4/2018 [[the remorse of the voice persists]] , for which the direct management of the water supply service is assumed by mediating the installations of the generality's Ter-Llobregat supply network and is created the Water Supply Service Ter... Please request the due diligence and silence of the deputy who abandons the hemisphere so that the session continues. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President's Counsellor will intervene to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. You have the word, Mrs. Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.156.0	Okay. Many thanks, president; deputies, deputies. Well, I'm here to show you the contents of Decree Illi 10/2022 of 5 July, and the modifications that this makes of Decree Illi 4/2018 of 15 July, for which at that time the direct management of the Water Supply Service was assumed to populations by means of the installations of the Generality's Ter-Llobregat Supply Network, and which created the Ter-Llobregat Water Supply Ens. I am here to explain to you the need for the validation of this decree; a document, in fact, which you see to be brief, is necessary for a question of justice for the workers of this decree. The legal nature of the ATL is a public law entity of the Generality. This one, as you know, manages the supply of drinking water in the upper system of the Ter-Llobregat system and handles the capture, the potability, the distribution of drinking water up to municipal headrooms. In fact, this system provides water to a hundred municipalities in the regions of Alt Penedès, Anoia, Baix Llobregat, Barcelonès, Garraf, Maresme, Selva, Vallès Oriental and Vallès Occidental. Anyway, as you know, it covers 5 million people. Therefore, it is a very important system in this sense, with a hundred miles of canonades, more than sixty bomb stations. The law decree of the year 2018, which we amend today, regulated the contractual working conditions of the workers of the school, when the Generalitat, therefore, assumed direct management of it. At that time, therefore, the subrogated staff were integrated in a condition of indefinite non-fixed work personnel, without the acquisition, therefore, of the public employment condition. Specifically, it affected 258 people with a higher antiquity than twenty years and they were subrogated at that time. Subsequently, this generation, in its judicial system, has been given different opinions which have as their object the employment relationships coming from private companies that are assumed by public administrations and other entities in the public sector. These judgments examine the legal treatment that can be given to administrative workers and their public sector, when these, therefore, are subordinated to an administration. Therefore, a corporate transmission in a work contract that at the time had a fixed character and, therefore, specifies that this condition should be maintained. In short, tell us that workers and workers cannot lose their working conditions. When a person, therefore, has the fixed condition, he cannot be considered undefined and not fixed by a subrogation process. As I said, this question goes on and on, it's a historical claim. They get rid of these feelings, there are two requests for conflicts between women's unions and groups of workers, and a mediation process before the Catalan Labour Court, which is now open. In this case, the stakeholders ask that the condition of indefinite employment relationship be recognised in the collection of workers who have become part of the public sector. For another band, in another order of considerations, this more the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda has approved the offer of public occupation for the stabilization of the temporary occupation of labor personnel at Ens d'Abstament Ter-Llobregat. Therefore, this process of extraordinary stabilization of the structural places of work occupied in a temporary way, such as, in fact, we are doing, therefore, all the departments of the Generality. Therefore, in view of this situation, it was urgent to have the regulation contained in this decree that the exhibitors, so as to give a legal response to the situation of these workers and workers, before the extraordinary process of stability, before it closes, in order to prevent this from bringing together two contradictory and outgoing processes. On one side, a process of stabilization that includes these places and, on the other, judicial pronouncements that involve its exclusion. In any case, as I said, this is a concise text, the draft decree containing a single article, that what they claim, the one that they propose is to remove the incis from the apartment according to the additional provision according to this decree of the year 2018, in which it was stated that the subordinate staff were integrated into them under the condition of indefinite non-fixed workers, without the public employment condition being acquired. So, as it is about a historical claim, as it is about social justice, what they demand is the validation of this decree to clarify and, obviously, to resolve this situation that occurred a few years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.157.0	The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. It will be a maximum time of five minutes, as we agreed at the Spokesman's Meeting. First of all, there is the word for the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, Mrs Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.158.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs, allow me first to welcome the different trade union representatives, from different trade union forces : Workers Commissions, UGT, CSIF, IAC-CATAC, Interunion and members, also from the Committee of Enterprise. Indeed, Decree Illi 4/2018 of 17 July 2018 assumed direct management of the ATL, after having been privatized in 2012. The Government of the Generalitat, with the same political colour, thus recovered municipal management after six years of problems and various and different judicial feelings. On March 1, 2019, the new Ens d'Aigua Ter-Llobregat replaced the ATL. The Decree Ill 4/2018 and the ATL Marginal Inn applied the normative forecasts in force at that time, and according to the doctrine of the Supreme Court, also until that moment. However, the subrogation process caused the decree to establish that the subordinate staff were integrated into them on the basis of indefinite non-fixed labour, without acquiring the public employment condition. Their application, therefore, meant a loss in the situation of ATL staff, more precisely, because of this undefined condition. From that moment on, there were different rates and very reasonable arguments to fix this situation. And, moreover, the Supreme Court has handed down different judgements of cassation, in unification of doctrine, all of 28 of the generation of 2022, which determine that subrogation must be carried out in accordance with Article 44 of the Staff Regulations. The court concludes, therefore, that in the event of subrogation the workers and workers who have a fixed contract of character must maintain this condition. It is clear that it would be inappropriate to use the category of indefinite staff not fixed. This would mean acting without taking European or community legislation into account. At these times, it is clear to us that, on June 15th, the Department of Climate Action listened and responded to these requests, half a month ago and at the beginning of this July. Thus, the Decree Is Law 10/2022, amending the Decree Is Law 4/2018, was published on July 7th to the Official Diary of the Government of Catalonia and today up at this plenary session of Parliament. There have been a few years of uncertainty for the ATL workers. I want to thank the consistency and work of the unions, trade union representatives and business committee here present. And I think that today everyone is satisfied that the staff that comes from the ATL and that today is the Water Supply Ens Ter-Llobrega has recovered this fixed staff condition. It's a demand for justice. From our parliamentary group of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia and Units for Progress we rejoice that it has been interpreted this way by the courts and, now, by the Government of the Generality. And that is why our group will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.159.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.160.0	Thank you, President; Members. The Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia has consistently highlighted in recent years for its operational desire and its sluggish management of the public resources of our region. This decree law is one more example. The objective of the text presented to us today is to regularize the situation of the workers who provide services in the Ter-Llobregat Water Supply Authority, which previously presented the concessionaire of the Generalitat de Catalunya ATL. Well, we can draw two conclusions on this. First, since the entry into force of Decree-Law 4/2018 of 17 July, there have been several years in which 258 workers, with an average experience of twenty years in the workplace, have been engaged in a legal limbo in which the Public Administration of the Generalitat, as usual and despite what they can sell us today, have not been able to live up to the circumstances. Moreover, gentlemen of the Government, they have had to wait for Supreme Court rulings and several trade union demands to defend and secure the working conditions of workers of a public entity. Conclusion: They show that they are unable to care for workers on their own initiative and are more concerned about selling their green story than about protecting professionals who care for and distribute such an important and scarce public resource as is the case with water. We are pleased to see that, at least, and even if you are late, and you are not very likely to worry about yourself and take up legal stability and security, it seems that you will follow the Supreme Court's rulings and safeguard the working conditions of ATL professionals. Second. I would like to leave you two reflections that we consider important given the context of this decree law. As I mentioned a moment ago, water is a scarce resource, with an incalculable value for human life; it is a resource that, because of its characteristics related to the market structure to which it is subject, has to be managed or at least supervised and regulated by the public authorities. Therefore, given the importance of this resource, we believe that it is more essential than ever that professionals working in its management enjoy optimal working conditions consistent with the responsibility and relevance of their position. In addition, we are convinced that public law entities, such as ATL, should be examples of transparency, good management and corporate social responsibility. It is of no use to its policy of good marketing and good governance if its internal actions in the Public Administration of the Generalitat prove quite contrary to what they sell. That has a name, and it's called hypocrisy. Stop suffocating the private sector to meet its useless and counterproductive requirements and ideological regulations, start sweeping and cleaning your house. Taking advantage of the fact that we talked about water, I wanted to address Mrs Paneque, from the PSC, and Lucas Ferro, from En Comú Puem, who in the control questions asked for measures to combat drought. Well, the measures to combat drought had them last week in the Climate Action Committee in a motion for a resolution tabled by my group in which they voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.161.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.162.0	Thank you, President. Well, welcome and welcome, members of the ATL committee. Welcome to the unions, the IAC-CATAC, the Interunion, UGT, Commissions, CSIF and the CGT, while not having representation at these times; all of you, therefore, representatives of these 258 people who have suffered in these past years an obvious error of the Generality at the time of approving Decree 4/2018. It is obvious to everyone that when there is a subrogation, this and any other, to all the workers of the service that is subrogated as it is to guarantee the same rights that they have so far. And more in one case, therefore, that it is again to municipalize, to remunicipalize, a servant like this, so requested for the CUP and for other parties, that, in the end, it was also done for a judicial judgment. It is to say that today we re-amend this decree because there is a feeling that generates jurisprudence and that, therefore, tells us what we all knew, that you would never have lost a right; to become indefinite, not fixed, was not normal when all of you were fixed, with contracts. Therefore, a new feeling indicates us, therefore, how they should go. It's sad that it's a feeling and that it's not your own Generality negotiating with you, so, that you haven't made a big mistake like this in your time, that obviously you've had it a few years in conflict with the Generality, and you've done well to defend, so, the whole committee, the rights of these people. We have always been at the side of the workers of this service, we have always thought that it should be public, we have always denounced and asked that it be public. We're proud to keep them from the public system. That corrects this error with this Decree 10/2022, that it is obvious that for what I am saying, therefore, we will vote in favour. And more so, because you, as in committee, came into contact with us, and obviously we didn't have to convince ourselves of the king, because we weren't convinced yet, but we were very pleased that you wanted us in your mail and that you were arguing with us why we had to vote for it today. And so we will. Just to finish, because the subject does not give much more, say that very happy, therefore, that this service is municipalized, that you are workers and public workers. And so the Generality continued in this way to guarantee public services, essential services like water, or to guarantee the rights of workers and workers. And they can continue to do so, so, for example, by modifying the law of the AMB, which does not allow different municipalities to also water; concretely, therefore, now Ripollet is trying to do so, but also from other municipalities. And they can't do that for the Barcelona Metropolitan Area's own regulations, and we can't pass all these workers and workers as well as being public service workers. Just as we are very pleased with the people who accompany us and their 258 companies, we also ask that the Government rectify and leave that this law of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona is modified because the assemblies freely decide how they want to do this water supply, and if they want it to be public and that these workers are subrogated, so that they can do it. Thank you very much. They voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.163.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.164.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, she will advise to wish that Councilwoman Jordan is recovered, that before, to the question of the Government, as we have two minutes and a half and had counted in time, I could not say. But in any case, it is recovered from the tank and can be returned as soon as possible. Well, it's a very simple decree, which is the fruit, in our view, of an important legal nyap. All you have to do with ATLL management has ended badly legally, but let's just say that this was like the last scam and the last nyap they put on the decree, that the staff that obviously had to subrogate and return to the public, and that they were workers, were not recognizable as fixed workers. This needs to be corrected; it needs to be fundamentally corrected because there is case law. There is case law, but here we would like to make a morning. That is to say, it was predictable the case law, it was predictable that the Generality had made a legal nyap not recognize the workers as fixed workers and that, moreover, with this process of stability that we are living, this made it even more complicated, because it forced them to consider them as temporary, and therefore there is jurisprudence, but there was also an open labour dispute, that we are convinced that the workers had won and that the Generality of Catalonia had lost. Therefore, we understand that it is necessary to assume that and it is necessary to make this decree and recognize its rights as fixed workers, to congratulate the workers and the workers, now yes, fixed, for their work, for having kept the conflict, for not having allowed this to remain in oblivion and for their task in the management of water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.165.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.166.0	Thank you, President. How many times have we had to hear that the solution to the evils of Catalans, to all our evils, would be for the Government of the Generalitat to manage absolutely everything. How many times have we had to endure that if the Government of the Generalitat had all the powers, because there would be no problem, we would have no tolls, it would be all phenomenal. I'm sure there wouldn't be any fires or jams either. You can't imagine how exhausting and tired it can be. But do you know what's going on? What happens is that absolutely all the evidence tells us the opposite. Today we are going to pass a decree that is proof of this, but there are many more. For example, there is not a single autonomous community that has had a disaster and cost overruns like those that have been here in the work of line 9: 16,000_million we will have to pay for a work that initially cost 2,000_million. To make an order of magnitude of the disaster, the Castellón airport, a work we have also criticized, did not reach 200_million; the cost of the works of line 9 reaches 14,000_million, which we will have to pay extra. Another example – for example – just before the tender for ATLL, because the Government of the Generalitat, which has some slightly distorted priorities, had an occurrence such as to inject 200_millions into Spanair, which was destined for bankruptcy, when those 200_millions would surely have helped many investments to move forward. Or the tolls. Nor is there any autonomous community that has built so many tolls, so many toll roads for its citizens, and on top of that for years trying to make us believe that all the blame comes from outside. Now, fortunately, there are only tolls left of the Government of the Generalitat, and that lie, then, at least they can no longer repeat it. And maybe they're thinking why I'm talking to you here about all this, when this decree talks about the subordinate staff of Aguas Ter-Llobregat. For I answer them very quickly, and it is because Aguas Ter-Llobregat – ATLL – is just one more example of those migraines and mismanagement that we have been seeing one day after another and that they continue in this Government. An example of many, as we have already been saying. We, of course, are also going to pass this decree, because the workers have no fault of the bumps that this government has been able to do here, but I do want to remember why we have come this far. To take out the ATLL competition to us already seemed a bad idea in its day, because the management of the high water was a perfectly viable business, and the Government of the Generalitat, therefore, had the knowledge, with the necessary experience, also with skilled workers, and there was no reason to take out the concession; there was no reason either for issues of efficiency or for questions of necessity or for questions of knowledge, there was none. And they took him to bidding only, only and exclusively to plug a blowjob into the accounts of the Government of the Generalitat. And that blow job came precisely by management plugs like the ones we've counted so far. But it's just that, on top of that, when he got into contests, he got hurt. It was in such a hurry to square those accounts, which had to be squared before 31 December, that the bidding itself was a bolusa and the award ended up voided by judgment. I think it's important to remember that, because that's also why we're here today. I very much doubt that, if that award had not been annulled by judgment, we would be at this point today. And the sentence forced that concession to be reversed, and it was also reversed somewhat in August; I remember perfectly well that that decree was passed in a permanent and occult parliament, so that it could be fixed as soon as possible, in order to make up for that chalice which had been the sentence that annulled the concession. And now, by that decree, which was also, I say, a little bit snooty, because we are here again, and they tell us that we have to fix it. We had a decree, then another decree, and now another decree that is also supposed to be urgent, to fix what has already been done in a sloppy way. It seems good to us that ATLL will again be public, as it was in 2012, perhaps it should never have stopped being, and the workers at no time needed all this dizziness. That's why we're going to pass this decree. They justify the urgency and necessity of this decree, I say, by an earlier decree, which in turn reversed an earlier one. I sincerely believe that the only urgent and necessary thing here is for them to leave the Government and for us in Catalonia to have once and for all a government that prioritizes the interests of the citizens and not their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.167.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.168.0	Thank you, President. Very telegraphically, to convey our vote in favour of the decree. Beyond the considerations that have been made about..., lastly, the catalyse of disasters in management and preterite errors, and which has expressed very well the Madam Bravo and which we fully share, what is obvious is that this decree means a concrete solution to a problem that is absolutely undisputed. And, as a result, you will have the vote in favour of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.169.0	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.170.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies, deputies, members of the ATL committee... Allow me, before addressing the motivator we are dealing with today, to give a strong thanks to all the emergencies and to all the families who have lost their relevance and to give all the support to all the affected territories for these recent fires in the Bages. Before it comes to that, from Juntes per Catalunya we are not very happy, from this Decree Law 10/2022, and progress that we will give full support to it, since, in compliment of the mandate of this Parliament, the Government of the Generality expressed the will to recover the direct management of the water supply service in high Ter-Llobregat through the Decree Law 4/2018, thus creating the public operator ATL, public entity of the Generality of Catalonia. The additional provision according to this decree regulates the subrogation of staff and, through the mechanism of succession of employees, regulated by Article 44 of the Staff Regulations, assigns the condition of indefinite staff not fixed to the staff serving the concessionaire. As the councillor said, 258 people, with a middle age higher than twenty years, did not acquire, for the effects of this subrogation, the condition of public worker, as the regulation, regulation and doctrine of that moment – of that moment– indicated. Subsequent to this assumption, the Supreme Court issued different judgments of unifying cassation with respect to labour relations in the field of succession of private enterprises that are assumed by public administrations, concluding that, when a public administration subrogates by transfer of undertaking in a work contract that had a fixed character, that condition should be maintained. Thus, and in agreement with this new doctrine, from that moment on ATL has rejected various requests for collective conflict, also through a mediation process opened before the Catalan Labour Court, to recognize its condition of indefinite employment relationship to workers who have reintegrated into the public sector. The result of that analysis of the last sentences of the Supreme Court, creating new doctrine and before the literal relation of the additional provision in force in Decree 4/2018, which marks the condition of indefinite non-fixed workers, is very difficult, it is very difficult for ATL to arrive at this extra-trial solution that allows the workers to return to the same fixed condition that they had before subrogation, which now obliges and justifies a modification of this additional provision through this new decree. As we all know, in parallel, the Public Administration has initiated an extraordinary process of stabilising the places occupied temporarily through the public offer of occupation, and ATL staff are also affected by this process. The maximum date set for the law for the summons of seats is until 31 December 2022. Thus, the amendment of Decree 4/2018_has to be materialized with a sufficiently long notice on this date so that it does not bring together the two conflicting and excluded cases for the purpose of entering, for one band, into the process of compulsory stability and, for another, giving that the Supreme Court says they are in full right to acquire the condition of fixed personnel. Thus, we find that these workers provide a water supply service of great social and economic transcendence, which allows the direct management of an essential service which, as such, has been pronounced by the Parliament of Catalonia, which joins the new doctrine of the High Court, as well as the obligation to complete with this process of stability and with the need to close the subrogation process correctly and definitively at its time. Therefore, from Juntes to Catalunya we support the demands of workers and workers, working for their rights and interests, which guarantee every day a public service of quality, with a level of installations of international prestige and comparable to the best public enterprises of potability, desalination and distribution of drinking water of the world. From Juntes we are very proud that with the country we have public enterprises that are for themselves authentic structures of state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.171.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.172.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of Parliament, trade union representatives, members of the ATL business committee, thanks for being at your home, thanks for having come. I think today is a good day and it's important that you're here too, because this fight is yours and, therefore, most gratefully for your union action and also for the demonstration that union action maintained over time gets reward. And it is very important that we also appreciate the importance of union action in the defence of the working class. So, thank you for your work. This is a decree that had to come late at the time. But it's also important that we explain how we got to this point, how we got to today. In fact, the privatization of public services has just proved that it is not a solution, but that it ends up feeling a problem. At one point, in a determined economic context, the convergent Government made a decision. The decision also justified the fact that there were various motions in various assemblies, the assemblies directly affected by this privatisation of Aigues Ter Llobregat, and that, in the end, therefore, it brought to the full a situation of legal conflict, both between the bidders of that tender, between Agbar and Action, as well as with the different labour-level processes that had to be faced. In this sense, the year 2018, has already been said for all the Members who preceded me in the paragraph, it reverses this situation and goes back to managing directly. It is not remunicipality, but it is managed directly by the Generalitat – which sometimes also with the terminology we can confuse. This step towards direct management implies the subrogation of its workers and its workers. This subrogation, in accordance with the case law that existed at the time, therefore, there was one who made an interpretation, that for us it is an inadequate and erroneous interpretation, but that, sadly, with the current legislation and with the confrontation of regulations between access to public office and public sector, an interpretation is given on the basis of the constitutional right that has much to see with equality, merit, ability and public access to the public sphere. And that interpretation affected this process of subrogation. Therefore, here is a standard sham that gave way to a misinterpretation of the law and error that led to a certain legal insecurity in the process of subrogation that had to be done at the time. Finally, the year 2022, comes to a single legal doctrine in this sense and recognizes the prevalence of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations in order to carry out the processes of subrogation from the private sphere to the public sphere, ensuring and shielding each of the rights held by these workers and those workers affected by the subrogation process. Previous interpretation, which we do not share, is generating us... it has not only generated with the ATL, but also in this process of stability that is being led by the Government of Catalonia is certainly also giving problems. Why is the main conflict? The main conflict is that the indefinite not fixed, the indefinite not fixed, end up being interpreted as temporary staff and, therefore, in a process of stabilization as the present, the temporary must present themselves through merit contests so as to win their seats. And here's a basic conflict. There is a basic conflict and, therefore, what we are here is to approve a decree that resolves this conflict; a conflict that, in effect, is in the FTA, which has already been addressed, which will not affect, therefore, the 258 workers, because with the approval and ratification of this decree they will automatically begin to recover the situation that they should never have lost, that is to say, their conditions of fixed workers and, therefore, they will no longer have to initiate or present any other process of stability so that they are already recognizable as fixed workers of full right. Therefore, from here our thanks. I also think it is very important that the Government of the Generality, since Climate Action, has taken responsibility. Since the Department of Lands and Sustainability, not all the right steps have been taken so far. Now, from Climate Action we have to aggravate the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.173.0	So, after the debate, we shall now proceed to your vote. In accordance with Rule 58.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this Decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on the validation of Decree Ill 10/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree-Law 10/2022_was validated with 121 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. I also agree with the Rules of Procedure, with Rule 158.4, once the law has been ratified, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be dealt with as draft law. [[Pause.]] So, as long as no petition has been made, this decree has been validated, and it will not be processed as the bill. [[Proposal for a law amending Article 47 of Law 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate male and female violence (debate of totality)]] [[202-00027/13]] Let us turn to the next item on the agenda, the debate on the proposal for a law amending Article 47 of Law 5/2008, the right of women to eradicate male-based violence, on compensation and aid for female victims of male-based violence and their children. This initiative has been presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and to present it to the honourable Member Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.174.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Costa Rican sociologist Montserrat Sagot argues that the passivity towards violence suffered by women because of being women is a way of undermining democracy, it is a way of telling half of humanity that it has to conform to a situation involving violence; it is equivalent to sending a terrible message to society and to new generations, because it means that violence against women is a permissible and legitimate form of social behaviour rather than a scourge that must be eradicated. Today we are here to talk about the urgency of combating this violence suffered by women, but also to talk about the effects of this violence on the children who lose their mothers because as a society we are not able to prevent feminicides, the most dramatic expression of inequality between men and women, and the most extreme form of macho violence. According to the figures collected by the Institut Català de les Dones in a 2020 report, between 2012 and that year, seventy-eight women lost their lives in Catalonia due to gender-based violence. In half of the cases, these women had dependent children. In April 2020, in this Chamber, we addressed the issue of compensation for children orphaned by this violence, and then Councillor El Homrani found that, out of the nine feminicides registered in 2019 in Catalonia, only two daughters or children of these nine murdered women had been granted compensation by law. He also found that, despite the thousand and fifty convictions for gender-based violence that Catalonia had had in 2019, only ten women had agreed to the compensation that was due to them by law. The proposal to amend article 57 of Act No. 5/2008 on the right of women to eradicate sexist violence, which we are debating today, seeks first of all to ensure that these children of mothers killed by gender-based violence receive the appropriate compensation, but also that it is in line with similar assumptions in our legislation, such as that of terrorism. In practice, we propose to raise the current compensation from EUR 5,691 to EUR 73,500, which we believe is much more in line with the gravity of the situation we are talking about. I believe that we are all aware that there is no amount of money that compensates for the loss of a mother, but we believe that the one proposed by this bill is more appropriate so that the sons and daughters of women killed by sexist violence can face a future with more possibilities and dignity, but also so that symbolically it is recognized that sexist violence is not violence ten or twenty times less than other types of violence with similar characteristics. The decision to approve these compensations with those of the victims of terrorism has not been a casual choice. In the past two decades, specialized lawyers in this field have been denouncing the discrimination that represents that gender-based violence is compensated for amounts far below that of terrorism. Why? Because, like terrorist violence, macho violence is a direct violence that generates dynamics of terror, that impacts on the memory of the victim, that uses a credible threat of the use of violence, but that also has a political intent because it seeks to make women afraid and relegated to private space. Acts of gender-based violence do not occur because of individual causes, but because they are supported by an organization; a powerful organization that is the patriarchal system that aims to delineate roles by sex. It is not only an attempt to harm a particular person but to induce fear in broad sectors of society to impact their behaviour, to send a message to women, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, that their behaviour will have consequences if they do not conform to the norms of patriarchy. On April 23, 2020, this Parliament was the scene of a debate on the amendment of Decree 80/2015, which regulates these compensations in Catalonia, because, according to the advisor himself from here, they were not working: neither women nor their children were receiving these subsidies to which they are entitled by law. He also acknowledged that the amount of these awards and the procedures for granting them had been designed to be as limited as possible because, as also stated in the justification of the decree that was adopted, it had been designed in a context of budgetary restrictions; an explanation that the groups in this chamber did not just understand because in 2015 we did not find ourselves in a special context of restrictions. What the Councillor actually acknowledged here is that the drafting of this decree did not value what macho violence meant for society or for the victims, which represents suffering injuries for life or losing a mother, but the criterion was that the expenditure for the Generalitat of Catalonia was the least possible. Although this was acknowledged from here and detailed the mechanisms that practically prevented victims from accessing compensation, the decree that replaced it, 4/2020, found in its economic memory that the improvement would be insignificant. If in 2019 there had been one thousand and fifty convictions for macho violence in Catalonia and half of the fifty and nine applications received had been refused, with this decree, which is now in force, only seventy and seven applications would be received and twenty-eight per cent would be refused. It is that we are talking about that, of a thousand and fifty convictions, only seventy and seven women come to claim the compensation that corresponds to the forecasts of the decree that remains in force today. And a third of them are also denied. Nor did this decree make any significant changes to ensure that orphaned children received the compensation due to them by law; nor did it do anything to raise the amount of 5,691 euros, which is a shameful figure to compensate a child for the loss of his mother for an assumption that, as a society, we should be able to have avoided, because we are collectively responsible for feminicides. Neither the decree of 2015 nor the decree of 2020 were designed to comply with what the victims are entitled to by law. In fact, more than two years have passed since April 2020 and the Government has done nothing to remedy this situation, despite the fact that the decree that remains in force is far from what is established by law. For this reason, we bring this bill here today, because we believe that this issue has to be guaranteed and regulated in the law that corresponds, the 5/2008, to the right of women to eradicate sexist violence. Such an issue cannot depend on the criterion of the Government in office; it cannot continue to depend on a procedure that has been shown to not work, because what the Government does is pass decrees according to the amount it is willing to pay. Because we are talking about compensations that should be part of a policy of reparation and recognition that should be guaranteed beyond the contingencies of the moment. What is sought with this bill is to allow parliamentary groups to agree on a new design to make reparations that are not being granted, to do so by listening to the experts in this area and to ensure that the mechanism that emerges is guaranteed and does not depend on the judgement of a department of the Government in turn. It also hopes that it will be a priority, at last, an issue which has not been so far. The proposal of the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group is that, as has already been done in the Valencian Community, the compensation received by victims of macho violence should be equated with that of terrorist violence, because it is supposed to be similar; because it is the way of collectively recognizing that this type of violence has very serious consequences for women and their children, which is a violence that we should collectively avoid, especially the whole of the administrations, which are ultimately the ones who have to guarantee the rights of people. Because we also have to reflect in figures the seriousness of violence against women; that losing a mother, the result of gender-based violence, is not a ten or twenty times less situation to lose because of a similar assumption; that this is not a private matter, but a situation for which we are responsible as a society. However, we want the final amount set by the law to come out of the debate that the parliamentary groups in this Parliament have, because what this project seeks is the possibility of opening a paper where we can decide between all of them. In short, we want to provide an opportunity for this debate to take place and a consensus decision to be taken. In the amendment to the whole of the Government groups, reference is made to the need to separate the concept of "reparation from compensation". And we agree that reparation goes far beyond an amount that is delivered at a specific time, but compensation is part of reparation. Indeed, it is the law itself on the right of women to eradicate macho violence that states that women who have been victims, but especially their children, are entitled to financial compensation as part of this comprehensive reparation. This project is precisely in the line of achieving collective reparation, which is essential to advance the social transformations necessary for reparation. This bill does not interfere with the transformative policies that can be deployed by the councillor of Feminisms and to which the groups of Esquerra and Junts refer in their alternative text. On the contrary, it is something that adds up, because gender policies need to emerge from the broadest possible consensus for society as a whole to assume them as their own and make them their own. I do not want to prolong myself any longer, but I would like to reiterate that we are not just talking about money; it is much more, we are also talking about the message we send to society, to the new generations, about what violence against women represents, about how this violence impacts people around the victim, how it conditions their environment, how it changes lives forever, especially those of children who lose their murdered mother. The alternative text of Esquerra Republicana and Junts recognizes much of the problems posed by this bill and assumes some of the modifications. It recognizes, for example, that the consequences of gender-based violence must be reflected in judgements and that we must ensure that all victims are informed that they are entitled to compensation, something that is not happening now; it also recognizes that compensation is not working and that the EUR 5,691 received by the orphaned sons and daughters of murdered women is insufficient. But I reserve one fundamental issue for the Government: to decide the amount of compensation to be paid to these boys and girls. We believe that to leave this in the hands of a regulation or a regulation that depends on the government of office is to leave the right of the people in the hands of the political vavenes; it is, in some way, to give reason to those speeches that question that this is an objective right and that it must be a top political priority. Law 5/2008 on the right of women to eradicate sexist violence was a pioneering law, the result of a broad consensus among all the political forces that were able to dialogue and agree with the feminist movement in a text that recognized that gender-based violence goes far beyond what occurs in the context of the couple. This bill seeks the same thing: to recognize that this violence has a political intent and generates dynamics of terror that seek to condition the behavior not only of a woman, but of all. We believe that decisions on the law on the right of women to eradicate macho violence must continue to be the result of the agreement, which cannot be decided by a decree or by regulations. The fight against macho violence has to be the result of debate and consensus, because the laws that really apply, that transform the reality and life of people are those that are agreed and arise from agreement and negotiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.175.0	Next, and to defend the slogan to the totality with alternative text that have jointly presented the groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the MP Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.176.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies, people who accompany us today from the public, staff of the Parliament, the male violence forms part of the patriarchal landscape in which we live and in which we are accustomed to live, but this landscape does not please us, and we cannot remain only as spectators of this landscape, to contemplate it without doing anything, but I believe that we have the obligation to change the environment and to plant measures to reverse the patriarchy and end the male violence. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia has approved a law on the right of women to eradicate male violence 14 years ago, and for this reason there have been various amendments to that law. The last modification was made in the final phase of the year 2020, when different types of asset were included, and attempts were made to update these male violence with assets, and abuses and rapes related to technologies, and other changes related to the new technologies and new forms of implementing male violence against women. You leave a hint on this law's name, huh? Why is it that the right of women to eradicate male violence gives us an idea of what we are, right? Where we are when we have to claim the right to end the violence that kills us. More than a right, I'd say it's a duty of the whole people, of the whole society, of everyone, to end the violence against women by just being women, because that's what it's all about. But, as I said, this Parliament and the Government of the Generality are firmly committed to the eradication of all masculinist rapes, and so say, in plurality, and, of course, to those aspects that we know are not yet working or not working, and that we know them and that we recognize them, and that, as I said earlier, they require solutions, putting measures in this unpleasant landscape that does not please us, for example, measures like the national pact for the eradication of masculinist rapes, that is the result of a consensus, a necessary consensus, as requested by the socialist deputy in the previous intervention, and that is celebrated in the Generality Palace, and that precisely yesterday they raped them for a new session of the National Parliament. We are aware of the need for recovery and full reparation of the victimous women of male violence, while taking into account the factor of prevention, which we believe, from Junts per Catalunya, that the factor of prevention is one of the most important factors in order to eradicate these violences. We believe, in any case, that reparation must be based on a much broader, holistic approach and in contact with society in order to put resources in the service of people, they understand that the individual relationship of the victim of male violence is an individual relationship to which the policies we make from here, from Parliament and also from the Government, must be appropriate, but aiming at a global solution, at a collective solution that affects all of us, because it is a problem, as I said before, of all of us, that does not only affect the right of women to eradicate violence against them, but also affects all of us, everyone, and therefore we must find a collective solution and also prevent it. For this reason, the truth is that we very much disagree with the masculist violence being fitted with the violence of terrorism, because we believe that the origins are very different; it seems like a comparison out of place. We can't hear, however... we can hear what they say about the data: the data are telling, it's obvious, as the Spanish State has died many more women because of male violence than as a result of ETA terrorism, and I would add to Islamic terrorism, extreme right terrorism or state terrorism. If we add up all the data, it turns out there are fewer dead women than in male violence. We understand this comparison, but it doesn't have the same motivation, and the motivation for male violence is masculinism. That's why it's not fair... well, we don't believe, we don't like this comparison, and also considering that it has never been asked, for example, that there are escorts to victims of male violence, as it has been taken into account and posed, and it seems to us very correct, to victims of terrorist violence. Or, for example, propose in this modification that victims cover a thirty_per_cent less than victims of terrorism in relation to what they propose. If we compare it, we compare everything, and then the proposals are the same. Unfortunately, we understand his concern about access to compensation, and in this sense, for example, we take into account that it is a problem and that it is a problem of information and access, and certainly of knowledge and of how it comes to this knowledge. The number of victims, for which only one year has gone, or is, half a year, to the offices of attention to victims of the crime of the Government of Catalonia is 7,657 victims. Eighty per cent of these victims are women and most of the crimes reported are related to male rape. Therefore, we understand that there must be an approach, an application and a specific training for male-based violence, with such a high number of complaints related to male-based violence. For this reason, what has been done is the formation in the matter of male violence, for which it does to the Department of Justice, for example, in which these offices are included. 2021 saw different activities, different formations, that they had to see, for example, with evidence in cyber-assetting crimes; that they had to see and that they were focusing on teachers and judges or judges, prosecutors; and to the questioners who are doing to victims of male violence, also to serve them better. Also to put the prevention and also to apply the forensic tests, there were trainings in the tools for evaluating the risk of rape when there is a complaint, while putting information and training in the new protocol of urgent forensic value of risk in gender violence, so that these women, when they vacate the offices or when they vacate to report a male violence, are properly attached and can also be reflected in the feelings. Because we understand that it's true that you feel them... when there's not this detail to the feeling of what the sequels of these male rapes are, we understand that it's directly related to getting compensation. That is why, in this sense, the Government is working on amending the aid and compensation decree, precisely so that these aids do not take so much of the feelings, of which they say the feelings. For example, when the attacker commits suicide, he does not make a firm judgment, since he is dead, therefore, for compensation; or when the children, in the case of the killing of the sea, are orphaned by the sea, automatically cover the compensation; or in the case of victims of sexual abuse or sexual assault, they are not re-victimized unnecessarily with interrogations or proof that in the end the only one they make is to re-victimize them. In short – and I finish, President – both the Parliament and the Government, with policies that are unfolding through the Department of Equality and Feminisms, but also from Justice or the Department of Interior or Social Rights, are already working in a repair and recognition of victims in a much more holistic and global way. For this reason, we have presented a message to the whole, with an alternative text where we are talking about some of the things that are already being done by the government, that are being implemented with the will to continue working during the parliamentary process in the appearances of the bill, and therefore we ask them to vote in favour of the message to the whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.177.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.178.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Well, I'd like to start with the conceptual mark, because I think it's important to hear the line in which we've presented a theme to the whole with an alternate text, because I think it's important to differentiate what reparation is from what compensation is. Mrs Silva has made no point, that it is true that they are policies that can probably be complementary; that, in fact, we can certainly find the link between the text presented by the Socialist Group and the alternative text presented by the government groups. But I think it's important how we get to this pose, with what conceptual mark and what mental mark we get at it. And I say that the repair is not a compensation, because unfortunately, if it were so simple, it would not be possible to make all these political proposals, public policies that are structural; it would not be good for the transversalization of these public policies because with compensation they could be solved, which we do not share. Of course, compensation is important, and we do not take away the review that deserves this decree. Actually, the government has been working on it. From the generation that presents this proposal until now, that we are in July, we have worked. We haven't had time to do it in a formal way – and then I'll go in there – but it's true that it's been working because we're well aware that the decree needed better. Mrs Silva from the last parliamentary term spoke, which, precisely, Councillor El Homrani made this self-criticism of the bureaucratic difficulties and the difficulties of being able to access all these compensations. And, therefore, we do not escape the self-criticism, the revision and the better of this decree, but it seems to us only to improve this decree to pass through the equipping with terrorism. And it is obvious, as I said, that economic resources are important and especially for those direct or indirect victims who do not have basic rights guaranteed. But now let's imagine a victim, a survivor, a victim of male violence or his children, who didn't give them that compensation. Do we really believe that a single payment will solve the repair, escort and recovery of this victim? I insist, that doesn't mean that compensation isn't important and that doesn't mean that the decree doesn't have to improve access to these aids and the way it's up and the amount. Imperishable, sure, but not just. Precisely because of this, it seems to us an error to make reparation and follow-up and recovery in terms of terrorism or, finally, of single payment, as said, because first of all, the company Madaula said, the conduct of male violence does not consider that it assembles in relation to terrorism. And in this sense, therefore, we cannot accept the initial mark of the proposal. And if what we need is to do a headline or a shot at the table to make it sound, to send a message that male violence and its reparation are important, I think we have enough elements of gravity to make society hear in another way that this is a country policy, that this is important and that we can raise it to the greatest importance without having to go through terrorism. I don't think that's the way to send this message. And, as I said, therefore, it seems to us to be an error in this approach, because, moreover, this is a specific emergency response, it's a bulletin, it's a dash, but I'm not going to solve the problem. And we understand that matching victims of terrorism and male violence is seen, we recognize that you're a good headline, we recognize that you're great, but you don't seem to be strict. And, therefore, we talk about the motivation of these rapes, we talk about public structural policies and we talk about another type of equipment. So, what do we need? So, we probably need to review the model, we need to review the protocols, we need to review the prevention, that we don't all have to go through the sentence, that's what the law against Catalan male violence marks for us, we need to review..., that's why we incorporated the institutional violence of public policies and anticipate us at this time; if not, we go to put names and surnames, put a xifra and we don't seem to follow the guarantee of nothing. This proposal has been presented to the generation – and I enter into the most technical and specific themes – and from the generation until now we have been working on the decree of aid and compensation, longings from the optics of terrorism, longings from assistanceism, promoting the autonomy of victims and their families and promoting community recovery. We made a statement to the whole with an alternate text. From the generation until today we've been working there, as I said, and we've increased the numbers. For parliamentary times, it has not been possible to modify our alternative text, but I would like to, therefore, in some way explain our compromise, the new criteria in the same line, and improve not only the initial proposal, but also improve our alternative text proposal. I know that it is not formally clear and therefore I understand that the vote cannot be taken on the points that I will be defending, but I would like to make it clear that the compromise of the parliamentary groups in Esquerra and Junts is to arrive at the debate with this ambition and not with that of the alternative text. For a band, for survivors, we plant multiply by eight and not by five, as we proposed to the Inician, the monthly Catalonia sufficiency income indicator. Let's talk about Catalonia's monthly sufficiency income indicator so we don't use the terrorism criteria, because the fact that we're talking about victims of terrorism and victims of male violence doesn't make it any more important and doesn't change the amount. And, therefore, we consider that the criteria for fixing the amount must be Catalonia's monthly sufficiency income indicator. We also propose extending it from the age of sixteen, because we also consider that from the age of sixteen we must promote the autonomy of survivors. And for what he does to children, we're talking about multiplying Catalonia's monthly sufficiency income indicator fivefold. And this is our proposal, as I said, not only in the question, that I understand that I am now explaining it and to some of the groups we have already made by writing this proposal because it takes account of it at the time of the vote, but we will not only defend it in the question when it comes, because at the end of today's vote it will end in a question, surely, with a text or with another, but it will end in a question, but also that, in the order of the day, the Companion Madaula, which, in this sense, has made a new proposal for the finding of the working group for the impulse of the national pact for the eradication of masculist violence, and that in the order of the day it is also the best of this decree of power between the House and the House of Assembly, but also the power of the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly of Assembly, the House of Assembly of Assembly, the House of Assembly of Assembly of Assembly, the House of Assembly of Assembly, the House of Assembly, the House of Assembly. And, therefore, to coordinate us better, to be able to agree better and to be able to find the Catalan mark that... – I probably advance to interventions – but I would say that it is not the mark of equipping victims of male violence and terrorism. In any case, we reaffirm our commitment to continue to work in compensation and not to take refuge in a review and improve our amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.179.0	So, after this defense of the threat to the totality, has the word now, for a turn against, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.180.0	Thank you, President. Yes, let's see, to the deputies of Esquerra and Junts, well, it draws attention to what the deputy of Esquerra Republicana has commented that until the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group did not present this text here the Government did not take the initiative to start reforming the decree. This is what you said here. In addition, he says that six months ago the decree was made, which was when we entered this project. Moreover, it is also surprising that in these six months you have not been able to present the amendment to the decree and that you have arrived here, as you yourself have said, introducing some amendments that are good, that we should not have discussed, because this should have gone the right way. We are not talking about the promises that you promise here, but about the alternative text that the Government has put forward and that the truth is that we would not be discussing this here if the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group had not introduced this bill, because the truth that in more than two years the Government has done nothing to change a decree that in its own justification it says is not fulfilling what the law says about compensations. About... [[Some applause.]] Thank you. I don't know, I wanted to remind Congresswoman Madaula of what she was talking about the escorts. Remember that yes, there are many women victims of sexist violence who have police protection, so this parallelism and many others... In any case, we are not saying that sexist violence is terrorist violence. We have sought a similar assumption that has many similarities, because macho violence is also a direct violence and that generates dynamics of terror, that impacts on the memory of the victim, that uses a credible threat of the use of violence and that it also has a political intent, it is not a private issue. Of course, other assumptions can be sought and measured in other ways, but what is not appropriate is that macho violence is being compensated with barems so different from violence that it has many similarities. On the merits, compensation is being provided as if it were still a private matter, as if it were a couple's problem, in which a woman dies, and it is not. I would like to stress that, if we continue with our text or the text that the Government has submitted, the fundamental difference is that ours wants the groups in this chamber to decide the amounts of compensation and what the Government wants is that the Government on its own will continue to decide; and we believe that this is not the spirit that gender policies should have, which should be the result of consensus. Basically, the question that is here today is whether the groups of the Government want compensation to be set by a law or want it to be a decree or a regulation that can be changed according to the convenience of the moment that decides on an issue that at least this parliamentary group believes should be a top political priority and should be regulated by law and be the result of the consensus of all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.181.0	Next, we turn to the intervention of the rest of the parliamentary groups to fix their position. And the first word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, is Mrs Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.182.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Well, the Socialist Party, like the other parliamentary groups that we have here, does not seem as worthy of protection and protection all the victims of violence, as can be seen in this proposal which we are presenting today to amend article 47 of Law 5/2008 of 24 April on the right of women to eradicate macho violence. We are not going to participate in the dogma progress of the criminalization of men. And it is that we continue and will continue to defend that violence has no gender and neither has labels nor surnames, and that there are people who, regardless of their sex, exercise violence and others who do not. And in this sense, we cannot turn our backs on reality. And according to the National Institute of Statistics, in 2021, 3,356 men were victims of domestic violence in Spain. And it is in this sense that our parliamentary group in VOX is carrying out this entire parliamentary term in the Parliament of Catalonia, arguing that we must give coverage, that we must give protection and that we must give assistance to all people just as they suffer some kind of violence. Because the right to protection against violence should not have its gender perspective. [[Some applause.]] We have also been advocating the publication of figures, statistical data and reports on all types of violence, regardless of who the perpetrator is and who the victim is. We have called for the repeal of Act No. 5/2008 of 24 April 2008 on the right of women to eradicate macho violence, and for the drafting of a law on domestic violence that guarantees the legal equality of men and women, as well as the punishment of all forms of ill-treatment. We have also called for combating false allegations and amending the duel protocol of this Parliament to set the minutes of silence for all victims of violence, whether male or female. And you have not supported all these proposals put forward by our parliamentary group. But we will not tire of combating the falsehoods and injustices of gender laws and seeking solutions to the problems of Catalans. And that goes by repealing all gender laws, which are discriminatory. Because gender laws preach a false equality that attacks equality precisely, generating different legal consequences in the face of the same acts. These same gender laws that claim to defend victims leave many victims out that consensus progress has decided that they seem to deserve less protection and less protection. And it is that the cruelty of gender ideology is accomplished by conquering the heart of the laws, as is the case with this law, with Law 5/2008, of 24 April, on the right of women to eradicate macho violence. And this and other similar are the biggest setback for equality between men and women. And it is that society in general, and especially we women, gain absolutely nothing in defense of equality by considering man as a potential aggressor. In fact, it is anti-legal to base the criminalization of the male, making him suspected of being an abuser and a violent for the mere fact of being a man. This, all it does is create confrontation and confrontation between men and women. And concretely with the proposal, in the analysis of the modification of the precept we find that this precept is unworthy, that it is aberrant and that it is inconceivable in the objectives that are pursued. Firstly, it is intended to increase the amount of compensation from the current EUR 5,600 to more than EUR 73,000. And it is that the criterion they use to increase is equalization with the amounts perceived by the victims of terrorism. And it is unworthy for the Socialist Party to propose the compensatory criterion for the victims of terrorism. In addition, this compensation is compatible with that of civil liability arising from the offence. Then we see how its partners, Esquerra and Junts, disagree with your proposal and leave it to a regulation without drawing up what sets this amount. Secondly, they propose that the time limit for claiming compensation should be five years from the date of notification of the judgement, and even that it may apply without a conviction. That's barbarity, that's real barbarity. Do you know, for example, the percentage of convictions in 2021? It was 64,7_per_cent. And it's that being entitled to compensation without a conviction is aberrant. Thirdly, in the statement of reasons, they state that there is no knowledge of the existence of this right of compensation and that this is why the Mossos d'Esquadra and the judicial officials have an obligation to inform the victims of the compensation. We consider that unacceptable, because these are not their functions. And in this sense, and in conclusion, from our Parliamentary Group in VOX we will always support all those initiatives or legislative amendments that collect equality between all Spaniards before the law; that collect the presumption of innocence; that collect the hardening of the penalties; and that also collect, yes, close their bars to allocate these resources to the problems of Catalans and to a real and equal protection for all victims of violence, be it men or women. And today's amendment, the amendment to article 47 of Law 5/2008, does not protect all victims of violence equally, creating inequality between men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.183.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.184.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, well, today we have to talk about compensation in cases of male violence, and we do this on the basis of two proposals, one from the Socialist Party and another from the Government, from the Republican Left and Junts, which has presented itself as a threat to the totality. It may be recalled that the current mark that works and concrete these compensations has already been touched upon in the previous legislature, but it has not been mentioned or debated on Article 47, which is what we are debating today. This law, 5/2008, of April 24, of the right of women to eradicate male violence, is deployed in Decree 80/2015, of May 26, and amended after the Decree Law 4/2020, of March 10. This establishes that this presentation is concrete in that heavy injuries with sequels are compensated five times for Catalonia's reference index of sufficiency, which, to hear us, gives a sum of 2,845,60_euro, and in the case of death, the children or children who are orphans, who are orphaned, sometimes receive this import, which represents 5,691,20_euro, with an increase of the twenty-i-five_per_cent in concrete cases. I put numbers in these questions because it's important to talk about amounts when we're trying to make these awards concrete, because many times five times, sometimes, eight times... We're talking about these amounts. That is to say, a woman who passes a judicial process, with everything she carries, with how difficult it is to have this award of male rape victim status, in the case that I have achieved all this process, which the Generality's response is 2,845,60_euros in a single payment, and in the case of death, 5,691,20_euros. Therefore, the Socialist Party is presenting us with a proposal for a change, they understand, obviously, that the current mark is completely insufficient to develop a dignified life, a recovery of this attempt to stabilize after a process like this, and it does so by means of a text that, for a band, we agree with the concrete proposals, but that we diverge at some point from the presentation of the motto. But, well, I'll spend a little time expressing our position on the two proposals that come forward. For one band, the Socialist Party's proposal raises to law what is now only indicated in the rules, and this we believe is very important. Why? Because, as mentioned in the previous interventions, we cannot leave the risk of this change in the return department, in a regulation that is volatile and that, at a given time, can be modified at the convenience of the government that passes there. We can't be talking about a national pact against male violence to shield certainly political when, at times, we have the opportunity to shield legal texts that guarantee this calculation of compensation, so we don't, or we justify it with pilgrim excuses. Therefore, we find it very positive that what is now detailed in the regulation – all and, from our parliamentary group, believe that it is an insufficient amount – rises and is thus armored in a legal text. Therefore, this proposal of the Socialist Party shields the calculation of this amount, and does so by making the modification, above all, for the amount for goldsmiths, which, taking the square of compensation that is presented to the law against terrorist violence, implies establishing it in thirty_percent of – and putting it back in numbers– 250,000_euros, which would give us 75,000_euros of compensation for the infant orphans for the loss of their mother. Therefore, the Socialist Party's proposal which tells us: in the case of orphans, we are moving from 5,691,20_euros, which is the mark of the current mark, to 75,000_euros, the mark proposed. But I kept the amount for the heavy injuries and sequels, which continue to smell five times Catalonia's reference index of sufficiency. So, for one band, we don't share the political premise of assimilation to terrorism, but we also understand that it's not what this motley exposure is doing. What this motivating exposure is to say: "Listen, there's a way to calculate what happens when a child is orphaned, and, in cases of terrorist violence, it's..., this figure, this amount, this percentage, how it may be so outdated in the cases of infants and orphans who lose their mother to another type of violence. Yes, it is true that there is a reference, which we do not share, to equip terrorist violence with patriarchal violence, but this is not reflected in the articulation. This is a political debate that we can hold during the debate, which can bring us positions that are somewhat confrontational, but we value very much that this equality is not explicit and, therefore, we see it no harder than simply taking this calculation of the amount. For a very specific question: that we believe, obviously, that male-based violence – and we have said it many times – is a patriarchal violence, it is structural, it is present in all states of society, but we cannot confuse "structurally organized, which is one of the characteristics of terrorist violence. But, well, as I was saying, this is political debate that during the time you can go free. We agree that compensation for sequels of male victims of violence and their children cannot be so out of step with other rapes with similar results. The message to the totality presented by the Government does come closer to our political framework – we share things as transformative reparations, which must be a question of educating society, etcetera – but we are talking about material questions. Victims of male violence need stable, urgent, effective, concrete solutions; they cannot depend on the government to turn, they cannot depend on a decree that can be amended at a given time following what establishes this import of the amount. Because it's also true that when Congresswoman Diaz spoke about the issue of compensation and reparation, we hear that there's nothing about repairing male violence and there's nothing about repairing death. And this is not incompatible with education, with spreading knowledge for a future transformation. All this is very good, but the urgent material needs of victims of male violence must be solved with economic amounts. The answer they have, which must have these people is, the debt, being able to take a piss, being able to develop their life, their new life, and being able to start it in conditions of dignity. That is why we believe that it is important that the law implements these measures and that it does not remain in a cloud to the criteria of the department. We also understand, of course, that parliamentary groups that support the Government have the limitation of making proposals that convince the Government – and we have said it several times. But I repeat again: we cannot talk about a national pact against male violence which is intended to shield certainly political while we are making these kinds of proposals that go completely on the contrary path. The writing of the puzzle to the totality is short of the current panorama; it does not shield the law from the calculation of the amount– in fact, even the diluence more than the current writing –, it leaves it to the criteria of the department, as we have said on various occasions. And I want to remind you that we are not lawmakers only for the age and that they will not hold the government forever; therefore, they will not have control over these policies. It also talks about the 4/2020 decrees, which in no case alters the economic amount. And, above all, tell the motivating statement to increase compensation for orphaned infants. But your drafting proposal doesn't come up at the moment. Therefore, it remains to be done very well at the presentation of motius, but if then it is not concrete in a measure it is smoke. Therefore, in conclusion, the political report is worded, and it is very good to have these debates and take it easy, but victims and survivors of male violence need concrete, stable and immediate measures to continue their lives with dignity. We're tired of empty words, we're tired of age-based measures and inconcrete terms. Therefore, we will support the original text of the Socialist Party's proposal, engaging all of us to work on consensus and the realization of all aspects during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.185.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.186.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, I think talking about the turn I have to intervene..., many of the things have already been said, so I think that I can't get on the side of the diagnostics, because, moreover, it is that the same government, in its text, re-recognize that the decree of compensation is not working, that the figures of women who have access to this compensation as victims of male violence are practically ridiculous, isn't it? It doesn't even reach the hundred people. When we did the debate on the modification of the previous decree, it was about a few seventy people, that is, with the modification we have managed to increase it approximately thirty more, which, in fact, cannot be taken exactly as a success. But it is that, moreover, it is that it rains on heaps, because when we have already held the debate on the decree, that it was believed that March 2020, just before the confinement, we have already told the Government that this modification of the decree would not be useful, for various reasons; but one of them is because of the difficulties that many women have to achieve up to and including a sentence such as victims of male violence or that the reports that are to be collected in these feelings that are the sequels that have left them to this male violence, such that many times throughout the process of denunciation and the whole process of justice do not make a good barrage, it is not a good identification on the part of the forensics, as it does not happen to people who have been involved in this process, but who have not been involved in this process. Therefore, the decree fails, and you know it too. And they've already said that they're working on a new decree, that they have to identify that as the decree fails, it's gonna get better. The problem is that we take so much time to think and debate and decide and see how we modify it to do it well that in the end we don't do it. And, therefore, it is true that there has been an initiative by an opposition group which has taken the legislative initiative on this subject and which, moreover, does not take it only at the time that concrete proposals are made, but, moreover, does so by law, not by regulation or by decree of the Government. Because, as explained, it is considered that because these compensations are actually more legal and more diffuse and more capable of affecting the repair, that we are talking about women victims of male violence, it has to be done from the law. And, surely, the law at its time did not do so and, as always, much is happening to us with the deployment of this law and with the assessment of this law, there are many things that need to be improved and that need to be changed. That we have already made a reform of the last legislature that was important, but that I believe that what is now being proposed is also important and also necessary. Because it is this other focus that, as the law is not working because it is not unfolding sufficiently and because the necessary resources are not being put in place for all the years that the law has been in force for the actual deployment of the network of attention to victims of male violence, so we find ourselves to continue to force and strengthen the law to have more capacity to require the government to deploy it. We also do not share – we have already commented on this with the Socialist Group – the need to incorporate, nor that it is as reference, a relationship to victims of terrorism. We have commented on this with the Member. We believe that male-based violence is a structural, social violence that provokes terror and that can take it as such, but we believe that we already have a standard _framework, which is Law 5/2008, which is precisely what it does to talk about this structural and social focus. It is patriarchy that provokes male violence. So, either we change and abolish patriarchy or we don't put up with male violence. And this is the mark of 5/2008 and it's the mark of reform that was done the previous year. That's why, so important, all the themes of sex affective education, that we repeat once and again and once and again, and that continues to feel the great assignature pending from this government. From the day and the years before. We don't share this brand, but we think we can work during the pregnancy so we can get the idea, the proposal that is: look for something that assimilates and that concretes and says what these women have right and what they have right these children and girls who are left orphaned. And we think it can be done. And besides, we have also been talking to the government during this time, trying these proposals that have come to fruition as at the last hour and we cannot register them, but we commit ourselves, and that you ask them: "Okay, but we make a compromise on firm, that is to say, I want black on white, I want a compromise, I want to say before I start that the government will take on this, and you can't do it. Let them tell you that if we give it to the Faristol and then we'll see and conclude it with some ideas that we'll present... So one of the things we've been talking about..., we have the proposal that we have in mind and that we want to present is to use Catalonia's sufficiency income index, which is our indicator, which is also fixed every year, and take the annual. Because the monthly, which is what the government was also proposing, we remember that it is the annual divided between fourteen, so a little cheating also has. So, we take the annual. And then, for example, we were thinking and we would propose and work with groups that compensation for women with sequels is, for example, at least three times the annual indicator. I mean, it's a xifra that would be about 24,000 euros, that we think is a good starting point. And then we're talking about graduations. We look at how we do it, we look at how we move forward, we look at the details and we go into detailing the issue of sequels, but above all we work on what we identify these victims and their sequels. But the problem is that we have it in access and in compensation. Here we are talking a lot about the amount of compensation, but the problem is that we have access to compensation. And in the case of boys and girls, we have the annual index, which is the equivalent of that thirty percent of the death victims of the law of victims of terrorism. Therefore, there are ways that we can shield a xifra, work a xifra without needing to refer to another legal mark, which we believe, at least, for this topic would not touch. Clearly, to hear the government say that reparation is not just compensation, yes, of course, it is not just compensation, but that's not all else is done either. Therefore, as we at least do the compensation, that at least the people have the money in their pocket and can decide how they represent their life and how their own repair begins. Why do we guarantee access to the housing of victims of male violence? I'd say no. The ability to reintegrate and have an economic autonomy we have, that does not have to change from bars because the housing of emergence that is given is a thought, sometimes in another city, sometimes in another bars, where their children make their lives and condemn them to go to another place to escape from the aggressor and to break with their lives? This is not guaranteed. Therefore, perhaps if we move forward in that they have the resources, with these resources they will be able to take steps. Do we guarantee them the full psychological care they need throughout the process, with the need there is and with the frequency they have? Maybe we're not guaranteeing that either. So, no, we're not guaranteeing repair. We can talk about transformative repair, but we've already talked about it many times, we have to leave the report and move on, too, because the report is fine. Yes, we do, of course, from the theme to the totality and the alternative text presented by the governing groups, the whole narrative of the motius presentation, as was said. But it's that you start reading the joint and what you see is that another time you're putting water on the vine, that another time we're diluting, that another time we're saying it's already going to be a rule, "it's already going to be a decree, "we're going to do something later to incorporate everything that we're saying here now. Therefore, I also believe that a humble recommendation as opposed to an opposition group is that since the council, when I also need the support of groups for something, they try to negotiate it before I do it. Or if they want to support an alternate text, why don't they negotiate the alternate text before they register it? Because, of course, with consummate facts, and you'll find it, and then I'll make a whole speech about why we don't equip terrorism with male violence, and it's an ideological speech that we can certainly share, pretending that with this speech it's already soft... there will be opposition groups that are dying and will not support the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, that is, as a minimum, needing a little bit of opposition groups. So the next time I need the support of the groups to approve things and, therefore, to form things and to work together, maybe we'll talk to them better before we're done and then we can get the support. With all that I have already said to you, I think it is clear that we will not support, nor will we support, the totality presented by the governing groups, that we believe that the Socialist Party of Catalonia is the one that has taken the initiative and that, despite the differences that we have and that we believe that we can work far away from the question, it is the one that deserves to have the leadership and initiative in this law. That I think it is important that we actually try to work out the maximum consensus, that with the later reform we have achieved it, that surely there is a predisposition, not from all groups, it is obvious, this evidence that not all groups but from the majority, and therefore I believe that it is good news that today we start again a journey that will actually improve the ability we have to attend to, accompany and repair the victims of male violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.187.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.188.0	Good morning. Well, one Parliament is supposed to be listening, listening to what others say and a little nuanced or modified one's views according to what others say. I have listened carefully to all the interventions and here there has been an impressive dance of labels. In other words, it seems that it is more important to justify voting on labels, which are more or less suitable for us, than not to solve the problem. Gentlemen of VOX, put whatever label you want, but women are still dying of male violence. Machist violence will not be the only problem that exists in this country, but it is also a problem that this country has, and denying it will not lead anywhere or help solve the problem. It is true that the aid and compensation to women victims of sexist violence has been and is ridiculous if we take the problem seriously. But are you sure that this proposal for a socialist law takes the problem seriously? Or are we faced with an exercise of frivolity, not to say cynicism, not to say carat? Is it true that the only thing that has occurred to them and is thought to increase the level of financial support for victims of sexist violence is to equate those to victims of terrorism? And let's not water the wine, that's an equalization that is done in this law and contrary to what they have kindly told you from here, it doesn't seem to me a showy headline, it seems to me a lousy headline. You have no technician in the parliamentary group, no advisor who when he sees these things say anything to you, because we..., I assure him that this comes to mind to me and the advisers that we have, especially one in particular who now comes to my head... – I send a greeting to Juan Oliart – well, Juan Oliart sees this and sends me to copy a hundred times« I will not propose laws that are a big deal and can hurt people's dignity. What is the need to equate sexist violence with terrorist violence to provide victims with the first of the necessary resources? Make an ad hoc law, if you really don't like any of them. Do you not realize that by mixing one violence with another you are both frivolous? In both cases, the Administration must be made much more responsible for the victims than has been done so far, neither removes nor places any solidity or seriousness in their reasoning. Moreover, you will forgive me, at a time when your party is not exactly left with tact or respect for the victims of terrorism. At a time when the Socialist Party negotiates democratic dismemberment laws with the children of ETA. I've been told Inés Arrimadas in Congress and here in Parliament I repeat. Look, I don't know if it's the Socialist Party or part of it that's lost its way or that it's the partners that it has to deal with that no one lives with. And I'm not just talking about Mrs. Aizpurúa, I'm talking about the real intellectual author of the initiative that you bring here today, and it's true that you registered it a few months ago, before that person, that particular partner, came out worse than a frog. I'm talking about Monica Oltra, resigned vice president and councillor of Equality of the Valencian Generalitat. Monica Oltra, accused of covering up her ex-husband's abuse of a guardianship child. Monica Oltra, who when these alleged abuses came to light, far from giving explanations or leaving office before such infamous suspicions dissipated, clinged to the chair in plan..., finally, the comparisons are odious. The case is that Mrs. Oltra said that she was not thrown by a judge or the right wing with boiling water, and we had to make her resign... if you please by force, as I suppose she could also pass with some idols with the fang paws of independence here. I don't look at anyone. Finally, that was Monica Oltra, whose prestige, whose credibility as a feminist now is worth what is worth, let's not say if it's about defending victims of macho violence, it was the brilliant idea to equate that macho violence with terrorist violence in her community, and to ask the Senate to do the same throughout Spain. And a few months ago they got the idea, they packed it with pink lace and registered it in Parliament. And today comes this debate and some and some of them look at... what they want me to tell them. I think it would be better to go to the Socialist Party of Catalonia and to all of Spain if feminism were taken a little more seriously and if they were to ensure that they were not slashed in governments and in the proposals of law people so hypocritical: no more Oltra, please. And then we have the message to the government as a whole. Well, the groups have abounded in criticism. I would like to announce, on behalf of our group, a cordial abstention in this matter, an abstention of confidence. I'll explain. We share many of the criticisms that have been made here. Obviously, then, he's tried a lot to put a thread in the needle. Obviously, they are detailed and lack resources. Mr. Giró, who's the one with the keys to the box, isn't even here. But well, laws make people, governments make people. This government is not so single-colored, and I in this government see some cares that I mean on this subject, and also the insufficiency of what has been done so far, if we compare, let's say, what we see on this bench and what we see on the other one, it seems, therefore, this way we see frivolity and the search for headlines, and here we do seem to appreciate the gain of going by work. We would like to be in this pact for the eradication of male violence, let's say. We won't vote in favour of the whole thing because, as it also seems that the dues haven't yet done, you haven't done the dues yet, and maybe you've expected too much to do the dues. But go if the one they're doing is up, not what we have on the table today, but the ambition they've promised, they'll find us. For the time being, we are abstaining out of prudence, but we would like to see it prosper more in the terms you put it than in the terms those others have put it. And for now, we'd leave it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.189.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.190.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'm going to do it from the seat, because I'm the last one to talk right now, and the truth is, a lot of things have been said. The truth is whether the amendment is adopted or not, we will be able to open a paper to talk about this issue. I am pleased that we are going to vote against the amendment proposed by the groups supporting the Government, basically because we do not share the approach. Perhaps we are more in line with what the Socialist Party is proposing, than what it does is to adopt legislation that has already been applied in other autonomous communities. It is the example that Mrs Silva has explained very well of that pact that was signed in the Valencian Community, where the People's Party, therefore, also participated and joined it. And I believe that, moreover, it has been an exhibition by the group proposing this very rigorous bill, with data. I believe it is true that the compensation decree creates dysfunctions, and so have also been recognized in its intervention by the groups that support the Government. And, therefore, beyond continuing to patch with other decrees and making specific amendments, I think it is good that we have the opportunity to adopt a law from this Parliament, to recognize, therefore, the situations of defencelessness and unprotectiveness in which in too many cases the children who are victims of macho violence remain, which, in some cases, are orphaned by both parents and are living situations, I insist, therefore, that they are unjust and that cause them a great deal of suffering. I would like to recall how the People's Party was a pioneer in calling for these children to be recognized as victims of macho violence as well. Not long ago, too, in full covid, we asked since the Congress of Deputies also that there should be specific measures and compensatory compensation also for the children, considering that the situation in which they were in was even more vulnerable, in a situation that was vulnerable to the whole population, but expressly for these children victims of macho violence, especially in the period that went from the commission of the crime until finally there was a sentence. And, therefore, what it is about here, I think it is to agree with us, to go all to one in the fight against this scourge. And, therefore, we, today, insist that we will vote against the amendment, but in order to be able to give a green light to this presentation, and, finally, that from this Parliament comes a law that is more in line, that is, that this compensation is more in line with the reality that we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.191.0	The debate is over, so let's proceed to vote on the whole question with alternative text that has been presented jointly by the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. The vote begins. The result of the vote was 64 votes in favour, 59 votes against and 6 abstentions. Therefore, as long as the message to the totality with alternative text has been approved, this initiative remains rejected. And according to Rule 116.7 of the Rules, the publication of the alternate articulated text is ordered as proposed by law, and will be forwarded to the corresponding committee. This proposal of law cannot be the object of utterances. And we suspend the Ple to two-quarters of four. Let's go make the minute of silence down to Palau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.192.0	Let's resume the session. [[Decree-Law No 9/2022 of 5 July of urgent measures in the field of vehicle llogger with driver]] [[203-00026/13]] And we do so with the fourth point of the order of the day, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 9/2022, of July 5, urgent measures in the matter of lloger of vehicles with driver. First of all, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.193.0	Well, very late. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we're here to debate and expose the approval of this decree to you, which was necessary, huh? – necessary–, but let me, before starting, in the first place, therefore, also point out that this morning we have a lot of good news, that we have signed the Mobile contract until 2030, together with Mayor Ada Colau and also with the representatives of the State and the GSMA, and, therefore, we have an event that today is the most important event of the world, of the most decisive technology of the moment, and that we believe that it is an event good for Barcelona, good for Catalonia in many aspects. Obviously, it is also important from the perspective of what this means for what today is called 'business tourism', that tourism which brings value to our economy and which also has a very direct impact in the areas of mobility, hospitality and especially, obviously, in the digital sector, which is a growing sector which generates a great deal of employment– two per cent of annual growth since the last five years. And, therefore, we believe that the theme is not directly related to the theme that brings us today... but there is a relationship and I wanted to mention it. That said, first of all, to give thanks to all the parliamentary groups which, directly or indirectly, have intervened in the negotiation in order to comply with this law of the transport vehicle sector with driver. All of you, the ones who are sitting here, they already know about envelopes, but for whom I don't know what the exact problem is, let me do a little previa. We have all felt, far from the last weeks or months, statements that we can share or not, but what is sure is that we have to be able to be able to be able and we have been able to look for formulas to ensure that the two models can live together. The truth is that it was not a simple or easy issue, but that's why politics is, to try to come to terms and, therefore, make what is difficult possible. It's not a problem we can't afford. And precisely because of this, by political responsibility, we wanted to address it with the utmost rigour and willingness between all parties. But we're doing a little history, aren't we? Why are we here? We are here, among other things, because there were now four years ago, so, on behalf of the PSOE government, the famous decree Ábalos, a decree that, finally, allowed, in this case, what we know today as VTC lawsuits, to continue operating on long-distance routes, and, exceptionally, in a four-year period they could also operate on urban routes. This exceptional four-year period now ended at the end of September. And, as you obviously know, one time this happened, this service would have ended, at least in the urban part. And that's why it's political responsibility and it's political responsibility to intervene there, just like at the time, so the councilman who preceded me, Councilman Calvet, also regularized..., in this sense, as a consequence of the decree Ábalos, it was specifically regular for Catalonia what would be the use, in this case, of what the VTC claims were. It is obvious that the largest part of the pasture is found precisely in the urban routes, because – and let me do the morning – all the routes in the thirty-six municipalities of the metropolitan area have the qualification of urban service, and, as you know, half of the population of Catalonia today lives in the metropolitan area. Therefore, a service Barcelona - airport of Prat is an urban service, a service Badalona - Sant Boi de Llobregat would be an urban service; in change, a service Badalona - the Masnou is an interurban service, to put some examples to which I was referring. This means that the Badalona-Masnou service could do a VTC, but, in change, from '1 October, a VTC could no longer operate from Badalona to Sant Boi. And this is really the quid and the conflict of the question, which obviously we all have to ask ourselves to give it a solution. What does the law decree consist of? First of all, there are two nuclear aspects of this decree that I would like to highlight, and which they have to do with two judicial pronouncements that we are expecting, huh? One is what the Court of Justice of the European Union will have to do at the time, which is what it refers to the proportion of VTCs/ taxis, and the other is what the Supreme Court will have to do for which it refers to pre-contracting. In front of this scene of uncertainty, which we have raised from the government, and together with the parliamentary groups with which this decree was subsequently negotiated, is a law decree for two years that can be extended to two more years in order to try to maintain, therefore, a situation that was currently de facto. And, above all, while we have not clarified ourselves in court, we have made a decree to ensure this status quo, with some modifications that some groups have made to it, and that, therefore, we can allow this peaceful coexistence in the hope that we will have these higher-level judicial resolutions, which will, in this case, regulate, to say the least, or determine what the definitive regulation is to be made in these sectors: one that will come from the European Union, and the other that will come from the Supreme Court. Since the last decree of the law of 2019, the intention, in fact – and should also be that of all folds – is to be able to make a law that rules the transport of passengers with vehicles to new places. And that obviously included the taxi, included the VTCs..., included, therefore, all those mobility services that fulfill these requirements. We believe that the ideal is to make a law that governs the whole sector. And so, what we're doing today is passing a decree for the while, huh? , in the hope of all these conditions. In fact, the public consultation before this law or future law is already done. We did it during the previous term. What do we do with this law? So it's a two-year and two-year law decree, as I said, a temporary regulation pending a court ruling. We negotiated this decree with the parties, negotiated it and shared it with the parliamentary groups in the chamber. And, obviously, it's not a perfect law decree. You sure you don't make anyone happy, huh? I'm sure it doesn't please some political groups, the same government, probably also the taxi sector or even the VTC sector, but we think it's the law that's possible at these times. And, therefore, and it is possible, obviously, as I said, to hope for the true regulation and definition of the model of mobility in Catalonia, among other things, to hope also for the positioning and timing that you defined Europe in this matter. I want to remind you that, if it wasn't for this decree, from '1 October I couldn't operate any VTC, at least in the urban area, and it's obvious that we can't allow this either. What do we do and what do we guarantee, obviously, with this law? We guarantee, in the first place, that, at least at this stage of the stay, VTCs and taxis are complementary. Between not making anything or making a definitive law, we sort, as I said before, the possible way, the possible way, the feasible way. And, therefore, in the two years before, obviously, it will continue with some changes that have been made to it, the status that we have since the law and from the decree Abalos. And for this reason, Members and Members, they ask them to vote in favour of this decree, which has obviously been widely spoken with political groups, which has also been spoken to by the sector, so as to regulate a situation which at the end of September would certainly be unsustainable. And I place them at once to start working, too, from the Parliament of Catalonia, on this definitive law that rules the passenger transport sector with a driver so that everyone feels well trained and respected. And, obviously, that all this is done in parallel with the hope of the judicial resolutions that we have on the table – as I said, the European and the Supreme Court –, which also marked in a certain way what should be the way of regulation in the future of this whole sector. Because it is obvious that regulation in lime, and we also need to be able to guarantee this model of coexistence and complementarity of these mobility services that need, in this case, the city of Barcelona or the metropolitan area in order to be able to respond also to the demand of users and citizens, in all their senses. And precisely with the news that we have heard today, also from the Mobile World Congress, we expect that during the next few years the demand they make citizen and also, obviously, as a consequence of this type of economic activity of the sectors, of the congresses..., so we are talking about giving a good service in all senses to the different users with the perspective that is needed, both from the scope of the taxi as well as from the VTCs, and in the future regulated sector in their conjunction. This is the proposal, I say, that we bring here today to approve. And let me, then, in the first place, give thanks to all those groups that will support it, which seems to me to be a large majority of the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.194.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. It will be a turn of five minutes – maximum – for each group, as agreed at the later Portaveus Meeting. And it has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.195.0	Thank you, President. Vice President of the Government... Greet, first of all, the Director General of Transport, Mrs Mercè Rius ; also the first mayor of the Barcelona City Council, Mr Jaume Collboni, who also accompanied us, and the different representatives of the taxi sector. The Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia attaches to the Generality the exclusive competence over the land transport of travellers that passes entirely in the territory of Catalonia. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia to regulate the transport of road passengers as much as taxis of the VTCs. For another band, as Vice-President Puigneró explained, Decree 13/2018, popularly known as "Decree Ábalos", establishes that the vehicle rental service with driver that is due to term in the autonomous territory can be regulated, in this case, as it cannot otherwise be, for the institutions of Catalonia, for the Government of Catalonia. It also established that, as of September 29th, the VTCs would not be able to last until the end of urban services, if it is certain that the possibility was left open for the autonomous communities to believe in urban authorities in the field of their competitions. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, throughout this four-year transitional period, has been in a listening process. It has been months since the Government of Catalonia, through the Council of Digital Policies and Territories, and the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to Advance we have been talking and negotiating how to deal with this new period, once upon a time the date of September 30th of encanny. Since the first moment, we have always defended, before the need to regulate again the claims of the VTCs in Catalonia, which we had to preserve from all over the taxi as a service of general interest. Some sectors and even some political groups may consider that there is a market limitation. We believe that this is all the contrary, because, as the European Commission says, Member States can justify restrictions on freedom of establishment on the basis of legitimate objectives of general interest, where restrictions are not discriminatory. It is recognized by the appropriate Supreme Court in a judgment of the year 2018, considering that it is right and non-discriminatory to limit VTC's claims to the taxis, as well as the requirement for car rental companies with drivers to develop the eighty_percent of their services in the area of the autonomous community where their authority is domiciled. And it is on the basis of these positions that, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, and accompanied at all times to the table of talks for Mrs Laia Bonet, the president of the Taxi Metropolity Institute, and Mr Poveda, we transferred to the Government that, if we wanted our support for the new regulation, the interests of the taxi sector and traditional VTCs – and traditional recalco« – that were already operating historically in Catalonia would be preserved. I must express to you our satisfaction, because after weeks of positive talks with the Government and with the advice of Mr Puignero, they have incorporated in their entirety the proposals that have been made to them since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and which are in the line of this listening process that we started many months ago. Ours was not and is not a model of absolute liberalisation of the sector, which in the long run ends up damaging the user, as we can already see in other cities. The decree that we will validate today's return to this balanced proposal, defended by the Catalan Socialists, which allows the activity of the VTCs, but that these adjust to their offer and that avoid intrusions in the taxi sector and in the offer of the taxi. We will therefore support the decree, still warning the Government that this does not end here, as Vice President Puigneró has told us, and that, as we have undertaken, within the maximum of four years, if it can be in the first two years, we must have a new law that allows us to address the problems and the modernization of the sector. MPs and MPs, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the validation of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.196.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the Member of Parliament, Sergio Macián, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.197.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies... The Royal Decree Law 13/2018, of 28 September, known as the « Ábalos Decree, modified the regulation of the activity of the vehicles of transport with driver, the VTC, four years ago, in the year 2018. With this decree law, the Government of Spain empowered the autonomous communities to assume the regulation of this type of transport VTC, but gave four years of moratorium to adopt their own regulation and thus avoid a legal vacuum. Well, in four years, the Government has been unable to present a bill in time before this chamber, and now we see ourselves in the texture of having to pass quickly and running a decree law before October 1, 2022, due to their desicity and incompetence. Indeed it is incomprehensible, this absolute lack of foresight: four years, they have had. And this decree law is a new example of the thousand times reported abuse that the Generalitat makes of this legal figure of the decree law, which prevents hearing those affected and enriching the debate with the contributions of all political groups. Avoiding consultations with affected groups and the absence of political debate often results in bad results, as has been the case for us. To date, the sum of the service provided by taxis and VTC achieves a good public service, well valued by citizens, and we believe that both sectors are complementary and can coexist perfectly. However, the Government of the Generalitat has opted for a very poor regulation of the driver-transport vehicle sector. The many conditions they impose for obtaining an urban authorisation will make it very difficult for most current VTC authorisation holders to obtain the authorisation. And some of the demands, such as that the vehicle has, for example, a minimum length of 4,90_metres, surely seem discriminatory and very difficult to justify. Very few vehicles on the market are that size, and all of them are of a very high range and absolutely high prices. In practice, this requirement involves expelling most operators from this market, as they will not be able to afford the necessary resources to purchase vehicles of this price. And many of them are SMEs or autonomous who have made investments in authorizations and vehicles relying on rules of play that you now radically change at once. It is easy to assume that a very important part of the current operators will not be able to continue operating in these circumstances, so the fate of many of the current drivers will be to enlarge the unemployment lists. And, from the point of view of legislative technique and respect for the most basic principles of the administrative sanctioning procedure, this decree law is a misconception, for example, with regard to the sanctions regime. To establish immediately executive interim sanctions, as Article 15 does – that is, if you do not pay the fine in the act to the transport inspection officer or to the agent of the security forces that impose the penalty on you, the latter can immobilize the vehicle – it violates virtually all the constitutional guarantees of the administrative sanctioning procedure. The defendant's defence is not respected. The separation of the stages of instruction and resolution is not respected. Above all, the provisions of article 98 of Law 39/2015 on common administrative procedure, which provides that no decision of a punitive nature shall be enforceable while an administrative remedy is pending against it, are not respected. In short, it is a legal aberration that dynamizes all the principles of the administrative sanctioning procedure. And that is why I doubt that this decree has actually passed the legal filter of the council. Nor does it seem to matter to them the impact that its decree law will have on the quality of the public service demanded by citizens. If the number of operators decreases, as is expected to happen as a result of your decree law, and demand increases – due to restrictions on mobility in your own vehicle, the increase in tourism or the recovery of business activity – it is easy to predict that the urban transport service will gradually deteriorate, but it seems that this gives you absolutely the same thing. We believe that an opportunity has been missed to properly regulate the sector. Taxis and VTC can coexist perfectly, because there is market for both. The Government should have taken the opportunity to properly regulate the sector, correct unfair or privileged situations, make certain aspects more flexible, and, above all, create the conditions necessary to generate wealth and employment and to be able to provide quality service to citizens. But, unfortunately, that has not been the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.198.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.199.0	Well, thank you, President. Go ahead and we'll vote yes to this decree. But let me start by saying hello to the taxi companies and companies, because today we find ourselves before what is the example of the multi-faceted struggle of judicial, institutional unionism, and keeping the pressure on the road ahead of..., or holding on the other side the Unauto lobby and the pressure group of the rescue of liberalism in the Principality. So today is a victory. [[applause]] of the trade union organization. And it is that the March of 2021, the result of a complaint by the Ronda col·lectiu, in collaboration with Taxi Project, the Generalitat admitted that the illegal cessation situation that affects Cabify drivers represents a damage, because it applies a less convenient collection than they would correspond if they were contracted directly for Cabify, and notes that these workers have lower economic conditions, holidays and permits. And it's that when we talk, too, about this decree, we can't get rid of everything, and we can't get rid of anything that VTCs and platform economy mean. Because this resolution of the Generality of March 2021 poses in question are the very foundations of this business model, that of the exploitation of VTC claims, which is based on the permanent violation of the labor rights of people working through these applications. Taken with Cabify, they escape their obligations as legal occupants through the interposition of a complex network of companies owned by the courts and temporary workers who have no other responsibility than the supply of labour at low cost and formally alienated to the company, which, in practice, determines the essential conditions of their employment and exercises disciplinary power, locks in abusive days and sanctions for alleged incompletions of work. I say again: when we talk about this decree, we can't make it clear that we're talking about people who work on conditions like those I used to say. So, beyond this decree, let's say – in what we say now, that we have given ourselves more time and time – to address the impact of the business models employed in this term of "platform economy on labour relations and, more concretely, on the pressure vector that supposes this platform economy towards the deregulation of the labour market, that leads to a growing lack of protection for assailants up to the point of putting into question not only the rights that we share with them, but also the same condition of workers and workers on their own account as corresponding to them. In fact, the best example we have in the conflict is still unresolved from the home distributions occupied in companies like Glovo and Deliveroo; it is still the same: labour exploitation. Therefore, it should firmly regulate the performance of these companies that have chosen to maximize the benefit at the expense of the permanent sacrifices of their workers and workers; because they are their workers and workers, and, as such, they should be in employment contracts. In some cases, as is the case in the VTC sector, depredating a sector such as the taxi sector, which is under strict administrative regulation on the part of the public administration and holder of the condition of essential public service. VTC what it does is deprecate the taxi sector, and it's what it wants to do systemically. And the regulation we need is not the famous rider law, because it does not solve the problem, because it has proved insufficient. So we're going further. And here everyone will come out and say that he defends the taxi, that he defends the taxi sector. And what we say is that defending the taxi is defending the public service of quality and its labor rights. And this does not happen to defend VTCs, because VTCs do not fulfill public service obligations: neither stops, nor rests, nor guarantee service, nor regulated tariffs, despite having decreed law that they are pieces. So, as far as this debate is concerned. And, before that, more than betting on regulations – and back to the beginning – if we are ahead of an example of a multifront struggle that exists..., what it is to strengthen and strengthen this unionism fight and compromise that has remained alert before this type of practices that undermine the dignity of work and the ubertization of the economy, because it is thanks to him that in the last few years we have won each and all the labor rights that have won at least the riders and the pre-characterized drivers. So, thank you to all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.200.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés continues to have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.201.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, vice president, councillor. In the first place, a friendly and fraternal greeting to the taxi companies and companies, and a congratulations, therefore, for the success, even though it is partial, that they have managed from the road and that today we are moving here to the institutions with this decree. A decree which, in effect, is the fruit of the pact, is the fruit of the agreement, and which allows us to move forward. A decree, too, on VTCs, but that, obviously, is produced in defense of a sector, that is the taxi sector, that is not a market. Taxi is not a market; taxi is a public service of general interest, and that's how we treat it. The taxi, like public service, is also regulated: the drivers are regulated, the vehicles are regulated, they go with taximeter, which does not happen in the VTC sector. And, therefore, with the introduction of VTCs into our country what is clearly produced is a situation not of free market, but of clearly disloyal competence. A conflict that's not new. A conflict that, in fact, enters our home with the 2009 bus law. And, therefore, many years ago we had this situation on the table and that the Ábalos decree placed this four-year horizon in which, therefore, it placed the responsibility of the Government of the Generality to end up determining how it could produce this coexistence between the VTCs and the taxi in the urban surroundings, because, if not, from the 1st of October they could not circulate, the VTCs, by the urban surroundings. Therefore, the pressure and the competition were in the mark of the Generality of Catalonia, which finally, therefore, was this decree, which is a temporary, provisional decree, and which, therefore, obliges us in our own time, in our own years, to develop this standard mark, this legislation on the transport of vehicles with drivers for less than nine places. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this decree, even though we believe that it does not meet all the expectations that are being demanded and that we understand that it would actually defend the taxi sector, but we do understand, therefore, that it is a good decree. And, in any case, it will take time, from legislation, to finish profiling it to ensure this new situation and to guarantee, in the end, how it gave them to the beginning, that they can lend on condition and that the families who see the taxi, that at our house there are many, can develop their pocket and can lend this service as public service, in the end, that it is. And then another question. We have today four thousand authorizations of VTC – started with four hundred, it is four thousand. And many of these people don't just precarize their workers, as they've been commenting before, but they've also recently entered a speculative market of some dimensions, clearly, so... well, inexplicable, no? That's to say, buy tickets for thirty-five euros and then sell them to the network for thousands and thousands and thousands of euros... So, the call to end, to end this situation, and it's reality. And what we're doing here is regulating a platform economy, a peer-to-peer economy, not thinking of the common good, but thinking of the private interest of large companies, and that they take advantage of the digital environment and the possibilities that the platform gives to skip the standard and regulatory brands. And, therefore, what touches us here in this chamber is to regulate these situations and intervene because it is not producing these imbalances and to defend common services or public services, such as that of the taxi sector, which we understand is what we do today with this decree. For all this, therefore, congratulate the solace. And our parliamentary group, as I said, will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.202.0	Thank you very much. Next, it is the return of the deputy Marina Bravo, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.203.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... I also greet the representatives of the sector who are with us today. Well, here we are dealing with a very simple subject and subject to a great social controversy, the progress towards a more just legislation, of coexistence and cooperation, between two modes of transport of passengers with driver that right now coexist with difficulty: basically, the taxi and the VTC. The first, the taxi, in my view hyperregulated and subject to great control by the Administration, in many cases, therefore, more for historical reasons and for what has been done so far than for a real need for current control. And the second, many times outside of these regulations and also not by a conscious decision of the legislator, but because they have been advancing or enjoying or taking advantage of new technologies, sometimes faster than the legislation itself has been adapting to them. Well, this is a very serious issue, which, in addition to all users, affects many families. It affects and affected in 2019, for example, all workers affected by EREs that occurred in VTCs. It will certainly affect many more now. But it affects even more than you can now imagine, also, all the families of taxi drivers, who, far from offering future solutions, give their problems a kick forward, or rather a kick backward, by not addressing them seriously. And since it is a very serious problem, I want to explain to you very well the position of my group. Look, this decree, for starters, has not thought at any time about citizenship – it has hardly named it, it has hardly appointed users in its intervention. Instead of resolving a conflict, he enquires it. And besides, as we shall see, it generates others. Some conflicts are old known, already, of the decree of 2019, then warned, by the way, of unconstitutional and now repeated, and others are new inventions that again I am sure they do not comply with constitutionality. But everyone goes in the same line: instead of empowering the taxi, instead of making it go ahead or doing the most competitive, it stalls it and puts it in a bubble and leaves it anchored there; instead of looking at the future, what it does is looking at the past and the old regulations; instead of expanding our options, the choices of users, those of all citizens, leaves us without being able to choose freely. And all this, moreover, generating a lot of legal uncertainty. And in this debate our position is very clear. The aim must be for citizens to be able to choose between any of the options. There's no good and there's no bad. What we have to ensure, yes, is that the framework of coexistence is fair, no doubt, that it is not right now and creates conflict. We have heard – you know – all the demands, just like you, but we believe that this is not the solution. The demands are very fair, but we have to move towards a framework of cooperation, not a framework of greater conflict or limitation of options. The populists have imposed a manic vision of this problem, a vision of good and bad and a vision of zero sum. In this vision, they try to see the mobility sector as the fixed, constant card, in which a new agent, then, takes part of the cake and remains less cake to distribute. But mobility is not a matter of zero sum, because the mobility sector is not fixed. There are many more participants, in the field of mobility, as we have seen over time: skateboards fit, shared car fit; of course, taxi fit and VTC fit. They have to compete with just rules, that's right, which now generate a lot of conflict. You know that we have to make a new law, but it is that you have said here that, in the face of a new law, that we have to take it calmly, so you make this decree today. Counselor Calvet said exactly that in 2019; it's been four years and it's still the same. The mobility sector, as I say, is changing. It is changing and it is very flexible, adapts: the needs adapt, the demand adapts. For example, there are increasing limitations to the private vehicle and we will have to look for other ways to move us. But we're not going to get it by putting the taxi in a bubble, which is the only thing you're going to get is that the taxi is even less prepared when the next technological malfunction comes in. Or is it that with this kind of regulation as we adopt here today or as the one that is expected to happen here today they are telling us that not only are we not going to be able to enjoy the progress that we now have on the table, but we are not going to be able to enjoy those who are coming later? Look, to address this conflict seriously, we need legislation that we believe must be national, that must also be modernised and must look to the future, that must guarantee fair competition and give legal certainty. But you cannot guarantee any of these three things, because you have neither a project nor a vision for Catalonia nor any interest in complying with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.204.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the following words:
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.205.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin this brief intervention to point out, as a long-term retired taxi driver's nephew, that I am perfectly aware of certain injustices experienced by some taxi drivers in relation to what they paid for their license and what is worth now, and above all in relation to the conditions under which they acquired it and those under which they now have it. It would be fair to analyse, therefore, on a case-by-case basis, the compensation to be made under such circumstances. But for my part it would also be terribly irresponsible to give up saying exactly what I think here today. And what I believe and what we believe from our group is that the way to solve it is not to do the same to the VTCs that have suffered in the past taxi drivers, that is, to place them in legal insecurity. In short, what I have just explained does not justify turning Catalonia into an illiberal protectorate other than any European and therefore illegal legislation on urban transport. Before I go into this matter, I would like to denounce the hypocrisy in which Catalan policy has recently been established. We already live it in the decrees on the regulation of rent or the illegal ocupation of housing: deputies of Junts per Catalunya recognizing in private that what they did was barbarity, but that they were forced to do so; deputies of Junts per Catalunya asking us in private to rescue them from themselves by coming to the Constitutional Court and then, in public, accusing us of judicializing politics, after having begged us almost on our knees to do so. I am very afraid that this matter can end exactly the same: in the courts. I have not spoken privately with Mr Puignero about this issue; yes, I have spoken with his colleagues, some of them present in this chamber, in the terms I have just explained. Yes, I know and know that Mr Puigneró has spoken to some representatives who defend free trade, and it is noted, because he had not seen in life a counselor defending with so little conviction and enthusiasm a decree that led to this Plenary. You'll know if it's worth ruling like this; you'll know if it's worth ruling with decrees that you don't believe in yourself, decrees, ultimately, that you know you're not going anywhere, because you yourselves are going to boycott them, because it's the hypocritical way – and allow me to say it with this compulsion – with which you've been doing politics for too long in Catalonia. But let's go to the essentials, which is not Junts per Catalunya and its procedural contradictions, but the decree we are debating right now. And I would like to point out three fundamental elements. We are faced with a measure that does not comply with all the recommendations of the European Commission. When I say "all..., it's all. If the Commission recommends removing passenger-free routes, you impose them; if the Commission does not recommend restrictions on the length and size of vehicles, you impose them; if the Commission recommends geolocation, you ban it. Two. It breaks the essential principle of any modern policy in the European Union of consumer protection always above any other consideration of trade or lobby, as rightly pointed out by the Catalan Competition Authority itself, which is not suspicious of sharing ideological principles with the People's Party, which I represent. Three. It places Catalonia in legal uncertainty – you have explained this in your own intervention, you have implicitly and almost explicitly recognised it – and in the most likely violation of fundamental rights in free trade spaces. In short – and I finish already – taxis yes, of course, but so no, because who will end up being the main injured is the user. And, when that happens, in the long run – and I already know that there are people present here who will not be liking what I am saying, obviously – who ends up paying it is the taxi sector. And I wanted them, with all due respect, to say: here there are groups who vote in favour of this decree which when you are not present say that you have to get them out of the cities to replace them with skateboards and bicycles. Let them know. So you don't create any milonga of what you just explained to them today. Make it very clear that the future, and as Europe regulates it, will only come from the coexistence between the traditional taxi and the VTC. Let us look for a way to make that possible, but not with a nyap, which is what is approved here today, which will serve absolutely nothing, which does not give legal certainty and which, therefore, will bring you more problems than you imagine. [[Widow's remorse.]] And I repeat, for some direct relationship, I know quite well, modestly, the problem that you suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.206.0	They demand silence to the members of the public; silence and respect. Thank you. Then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.207.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Vice President, Director General, Directors, members and representatives of the world of taxis and VTC entrepreneurs... First of all, I think we should congratulate ourselves on the work done. First of all, because we're coming in at a time when it's... it's not the first time we've met with this debate on the table. And I find that we find ourselves fruit, as we say, of Decree 13/2018, the decree "Abalos", where the order of land transport is modified, which determines that vehicles to lodge with the driver will not be able to act in the urban area and only they could do so in the interurban area. Still, it's a four-year moratorium that ends this September. This also, therefore..., fruit of this decree, there was at its time, also, the previous decree, the one of the year 2019, 4/2019, in which the difference of services between the taxi and the VTC was regulated. Because here a lot of everything we're discussing, the difference between two servers: one service is the taxi and another service is the VTC. In its moment, the year 2019, we arrived at the point of finding that there was the famous fifteen minutes. The fifteen minutes of pre-contracting that at that time seemed like a beast, that at that time they were criticized by many people and that generated important waves, we have seen that in the end they have followed, because they have survived Catalonia, a distinguishing element, together with other aspects that there were in that decree, as was the theme of the register, the theme of not being able to serve the raised, the theme of the stationing in the street. A path that began that year 2019 and that now, year 2022, also serves us to continue working on this will. The current decree we are proposing, as the Vice-President said, is a rule of provisional character as a consequence of the fact that we are pending judicial resolutions that need to be made at European and state level. That is why a term of two plus two is proposed in order to be able to make the law that must be in the future. We want the driver's vehicle logger service to be as good as the transport model, both in the urban and intercity environment, before obtaining the enabling title. What do we do with this new decree? With this new decree what we do is create a new authority because vehicles with a sequence of characteristics, among which, therefore, there are conditions of the vehicle, that is to say, their system of ownership, the environmental or physical conditions of the same vehicle, themes with drivers, etc.; with a sequence of conditions, that have a vehicle attached to the law, that has made trips in the previous exercise..., all this is the condition so that you can transform the VTC that you have at this time in the VTC that at this time is created the Government of the Generality, in this case, through municipal entities. Therefore, with this new authorization it is allowed that urban transport can also, in this case, be with VTC with the follow-up of requirements that, as we say, are placed on the table. Therefore, the theme is to differentiate the two servers. We're talking about the coexistence of two types of servers, which is what we want because, in this case, customers can also sort out what is the system they want to pull forward. Obviously, when a law decree is made on a subject like this, which has been complicated, because it has been talked about, as we say, so, for years, he goes back to talking now and he will continue talking, no one has just been happy about it all. But when nobody's happy with everything, it's probably the middle point, it's the point where you can find the best option at these moments. Therefore, in this case, therefore, there are a whole series of requests. Obviously, the most critical of all is the 4,90. The 4,90 is a request that, at this time, therefore, has also been made by the ACCO to see that there are certain doubts at the time of being able to apply it, but that it is also the point of agreement that must be reached in order to be able to pull forward, and, therefore, that a large majority of this Parliament can be achieved in order to be able to do so. Therefore, what we have to do at this time also all folds, once approved, is to improve the control systems, the control systems both from the Government of the Generality and from the municipal spheres, so that we have enough tools to be able to control the requirements that we have placed in this decree. And from then on, what we have to do is work for a very good law. A law that helps us to modernise the transport sector to new places, that helps us also adapt to the new realities, to the challenge of digitisation, of the flexibility of tariffs, of shared routes that we have also today on the table and that we are debating in the new models of transport to between the cities. And we have to do it all together, hand in hand... from taxi associations, from the VTC people, from the follow-up of entrepreneurs who also work in the field of mobility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.208.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr José Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.209.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the Director General, Mercè Rius, who is here today, and the representatives of the taxi sector. I think today we can all be quite happy, even though it's been a few months since anyone gave a hard time for this decree. I mean, we were in a situation where the starting trading points weren't so clean. In fact, there was an intention to look at how it could be done a little bit further and leave the issue behind the municipal elections or try to have a moratorium on the Ábalos decree. Some wanted this. Some others have profiled it, said: "The government will not get it, there is a birth and we will be here to say: "Do you see? They can't handle a decree. That's right, if the government saw that they were going out, they'd run to take the picture; that's for sure. So when the Republican Left decided to put the needle in the wire, we knew we were taking risks. And we came here to do politics. To do politics sometimes is also to tell the taxi sector things that were not agreed and try to condition a government that we are part of. We put three conditions on this decree. The first is that the decree protects the taxi sector as public service. The second, that the decree allows the activity of the urban VTC, but regulated. And the third is that the name of the lawsuits that you have made of VTC operating in an urban way does not make a competition disloyal to the taxi sector. And that's the condition we laid down the Department of Territory. It's a condition that we managed to get you involved in the whole negotiation, and that's what we said to the press, to the taxi sector, to other games, to everyone, continuously. We haven't moved this position. For this reason, many times, when 1/30 was planted, we said: "We will not tell you, neither will we tell you, nor will we tell you, 1/30. We'll tell you we want to narrow down the name of the lawsuits. And that's what the cab industry knows, which they've been with who we've been talking to face to face, they don't promise things and then they don't complete them. And we didn't get out. And I believe that this decree has two parents: one is the proper department, the proper government of the Generality; one is the taxi sector. And I want to congratulate you, because you have done a very important job, both of you, both the Director General and the same sector. But there was a leader, this decree, which was followed by the Republican Left Group, both to the government and to Parliament. Therefore, we have been behind every step of the negotiation, we have been helping this advanced negotiation, and therefore I also want to claim this work. And that doesn't happen now that we're going on vacation, we can celebrate it, it's going to be a big party in the taxi sector, and I think that everyone, in front of the user, can also be happy with it. But there's got to be a job... there's got to be a job at the AMB, for example, because the control and regulation of this... it also takes a little responsibility. And we want to tell the PSC that the Republican Left won't pose a profile like them. That we, from the beginning, are there to help and to make proposals as to how we want to control the application of this decree. There will be and we will also be supporting because we can be remembered. And we also have a job – and this in the taxi sector you know better than I do –..., there are many things to improve, there are technical challenges, there are situations that come, like, for example, the autonomous vehicle, with which the taxi sector can have opportunities, but also threats. And so, we have to work on this new taxi law. In any case, I believe that we must congratulate each other, but above all I want to congratulate the taxi industry, because in this process you have shown maturity, you have shown that you are capable of trade unionism and politics. And, therefore, it is a collective success, it is a success of the sector and it is a success for the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.210.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. Recall that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it will be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 9/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, the Decree Law 9/2022_was validated, with 112 votes in favour and 19 votes against. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law has been validated, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be referred to as the draft law. [[Pause.]] As there is a petition that is passed as a bill of law, let's vote on the passage of this decree as a bill of law. The vote begins. The result of the vote was 19 votes in favour and 112 votes against. Therefore, given the outcome of the vote, the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as a bill of law. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Decree-Law 8/2022 of 12 July, authorizing the Government to grant approval to Circuits de Catalunya, SL, and a pre-guarantee contract in respect of the Formula One World Championship Limited (FOWC) race promotion contract, in order to guarantee the payment of contractual rights for the organization of the Grand Prix Formula 1 of the years 2023 to 2026]] [[203-00028/13]] We move on to the fifth item of the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 8/2022, for which the Government is authorized to give an endorsement to Circuits de Catalunya and a endorsement prior to the guaranteeing entity, relating to the race promotion contract with Formula One World Championship Limited, in order to guarantee the payment of contractual rights for the organization of the Formula 1 Grand Prize from 2023 to 2026. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Business and Work Councillor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. The word has the counselor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.211.0	Thank you, President. I compare today to ask for the vote in favour of the validation, on the part of the Parliament of Catalonia, of Decree Law 8/2022, a decree approved for the government last Tuesday, July 12, which aims to guarantee the payment of contractual rights for the organization of the Formula 1 Grand Prize of the years 2023, 24, 25 and 26. With this law decree, therefore, we do not generate any new contract or compromises in accordance with the agreement signed on 2021, the year 2021, with the organizers of the Formula One World Cup. In any case, it is an instrument to complete that agreement and ensure the celebration of the Grand Prix at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya for the proper years, as I said, until 2026. In this sense, it should be remembered that the contract of promotion of the stable race that there should have been a guarantee of payment and that this guarantee should have been obtained before the 1st of September of encanny. And, as you know, the obligation to issue a government guarantee can only be initiated with a prior legislative authority. As a result, therefore, the approval of this decree by the Government, which is now to be approved by all of you. I would like to remind you that Formula One World Cup is one of the most important sporting events on a global scale, with a huge follow-up from a point of view of communication media, from a point of view of followers and followers. An event, therefore, much coveted and much desired by different cities and territories of the world. There are many cities and many territories that would want a big Formula 1 prize as well to the Spanish State; there are also cities in the Spanish State that try to have a big Formula 1 prize as well, and therefore that aspire to embrace it, because, indeed, as I said before, it is one of the most impactful sporting events in the world. And we've managed to keep Catalonia. We have succeeded in staying in our country, and so we can enjoy the celebration of the Grand Prix at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya in our own years. And not only that, but after years of annual renewals, exercise, we have guaranteed to gather this evidence for the world until 2026; that is to say, we win a five-year perspective, four great awards from the guild. Therefore, what we have achieved is a horizon that allows us to stabilize and, consequently, to work with a perspective at the end, a horizon that coincides with the transformations that we want to promote at the Circuit de Barcelona. Therefore, in parallel, we have this guarantee that we can make these great Formula 1 prizes, and this gives us an opportunity to go through the transformations we have said from the very beginning that we want to see this infrastructure. In any case, an infrastructure that obviously has a recurrence. Let us celebrate these thirty years, this thirty-year anniversary of the infrastructure, but that we want it to adapt to the principles and values of the 21st century; that, once overtaken by this stage of these three decades, it looks at the future not only with guarantees of stability and sustainability, but also associated with what we want by the company's side, and therefore that we associate with the transformations we want to make at the country's side. To give a little context on what the Barcelona Circuit supposes to Catalonia, I would say that it closed the exercise past – 2021, therefore – with a eighty-three_per_cent occupation. This is 302 days in the year of activity; of 365, 302 there was activity, in one year – I must remind you – that it was still conditioned by the coven, and, therefore..., all that, eighty-three_per_cent of occupation. An activity that generates an impact. And the economic impact of the different initiates and the different events that they produce, that they are fan of the circuit, is translated into a generation of entrances in the different sectors, not only in one, but in the conjunction of the country's economy, especially related to transport, obviously, accommodation, restoration, trade and the oci. Economic activities which have a place, basically, outside the circuit and which are produced in a first crown around the infrastructure, but which also radiate much more there. In fact, what the circuit does is act as a point of attraction as an economic motor of the East Valley, certainly, but not only, but, I insist, of the conjunction of Catalonia. As it goes, more than the touristic fish, more than the impact at the touristic level, the circuit also has an impact on other sectors – before I mentioned it – and which go beyond what is strictly the scope of the services. And in this sense, it may be claimed that the circuit also has an impact on the industrial and tertiary initiatives that are being developed to give complementary services to visitors and sports teams. Therefore, the circuit, in addition to providing and promoting the city of Barcelona and the Catalonian brand of the world, has also been an important activity for different sectors of the Catalan production system. In fact, and down to the realization, the economic impact that generates from the available data, which are those of 2019..., after we had the exercises of 2020 and 2021, we have already commented, conditions for the pandemic, conditions for the covid, but those that we have are of 2019 and are based on elaborate calculations, realized for the Office of Economic Studies. According to these, the economic impact of the circuit that generated at the country's conjunction..., we are talking about a production of goods and services valued at 192,8_million euros, is to say, practically 193_million euros, a GDP – a gross domestic product – of 111,6_million euros, and 1,810 full-time annual work places. These are the data, I insist, according to the calculations made for the Office of Economic Studies, of the impact that the circuit generates with all its activities. Most of these activities are obviously associated with competition, motor competition, and, in concrete terms, of course, Formula 1, the Formula 1 Grand Prix, is the central element. An event, the Formula 1 Grand Prix, which has a mostly international public that has a high level of spending. In fact, it is estimated that the expenditure is a half a thousand euros per person, and therefore has an impact also from this point of view. In short, the relationship between cost-benefits is very favourable to the territory and will continue. This favorable relationship will continue, continue, thanks to the renewal of Formula 1 world contracts, but also MotoGP, which guarantee that we will continue to have reference sports competitions in this area. In any case, and as I have explained on other occasions here in Parliament itself, in fact, in the same committee of the Enterprise and Work of this institution, of this chamber, the renewal of the contract of Formula 1 was necessarily linked to a rethinking of the infrastructure, as it gave the principle, in order to adapt it, in order to adapt it to our values and principles of the mobility of the 21st century, which are different from those of the 20th century, and, therefore, the circuit also has to make this evolution. And in the new setting that we will make and that will be defined in the strategic plan of the Circuit de Catalunya that will present the late coming – therefore, in a few months' time – we foresee a renewal of the circuit based, of course, on sustainability and digitalization. The two same vectors, the two drivers that permeate all the economic transformations and the product model that we also have to make to our country, obviously, involve the Circuit de Catalunya. And, in fact, from this evolution and from where we want to go, we will precisely have an example that coincides and coincides in time with the presentation of the strategic plan. I mean, we're not just going to explain where we want to go, but there's going to be a concrete measure that's going to be self-explanatory in this sense. In fact, the last week of October – this late, in which we want to present the strategic plan – is to celebrate the Catalonia RX, which is the first 100_per_cent electric test of the Rallycross FIA World Championship. Therefore, an evolution and a demonstration, a symptom of where we are going. In any case, until now, the circuit leaves a positive balance depending on the gathering of competitions that it has been able to attract during all these years, on the activities linked to these competitions and not necessarily to these competitions, but which have developed at length all this time in the circuit. But we want, we need, I would say, to overcome this mark. We want to go further and we want the circuit to become a tractor infrastructure for projects linked to green mobility, innovation and entertainment; that there is a change, a transformation, and that this vague link to sustainability and work together with the territory. We want to turn the circuit into a tool for boosting productive activity, which generates more wealth of high added value and generates new synergies with the region, with the territory, both from a social point of view and, obviously, from a business point of view. And we will do so, as always, with dialogue and collaboration with local institutions and civil society. The circuit is a strategic tool to boost the automotive industry sector and attract new investments linked to innovation in green mobility. And, in this sense, it can help us successfully overcome the transition to engine industry electrification and re-industrialize the country with high-value projects added. In short, the circuit is an opportunity – we live like an opportunity – for the social and economic prosperity of the country we need to take advantage of. It's a potential transformative agent, and to exercise as such, it's strategic, it's strategically decisive, in fact, I would say, to embrace Formula One World. I'm going back to the beginning. We want to make this path in parallel with the transformation of the circuit, but because we can make this transformation it is necessary that we have events like Formula 1. So, for the important economic impact that the circuit has on our country and for the future projects that we want to push it around, we ask them, once more, to vote in favour of the validation of this decree law, which, as I said to the principle, is instrumental and, in any case, is the continuity of the agreement that we have already made on November 2021 to renew Formula 1 and MotoGP contracts for the next few years. Many thanks, President; deputies, deputies, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.212.0	So, after this exhibition, the parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position. It will be a maximum of five minutes per parliamentary group. And there is, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Mireia Dionisio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.213.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies and deputies. Very late, counselor. Our parliamentary group will give full recollection to this decree. And we will not only give it full recollection, but we will celebrate in all colours that the Government has decided to proceed with this endorsement to guarantee the celebration of the Formula One Grand Prize in Montmeló until the year, as it has said, 2026. And I say we celebrate it because it hasn't always been like this, and you must have known, counselor. The year 2019 is a moment of alarming uncertainty, since, when the calendar of races came out, Catalonia did not come out on this list. And it wasn't on the race calendar precisely because the government of the then Generality, the government three years ago, which was different from today, but for us very seeming, it was not able to guarantee what we approve today, that it is an economic endorsement that ensures the collection of the canon and, consequently, ensures the celebration of the Formula 1 race. We rejoice, therefore, that it is done after mistakes and that it is not necessary to save Formula 1 race at the Circuit de Catalunya in extremities, as it passed then. We will vote 'yes to this decree with the conviction that the Circuit de Catalunya is a country equipment, an equipment that adds to Catalonia's projection of the world and a world reference equipment, and an equipment that, as you very well said, brings a great wealth to the jointness of our country. The economic impact of Formula 1 Grand Prix in Catalonia is undeniable and unquestionable. Thus a study of the TechnologyCampus of Mataró of the year 2018, which established that the impact was approximately 340_million, and also the study that one year later did the Department of Economy, which more or less said that the economic impact was 200_million euros. So, it's 300 or 200 – because, obviously, that's different – it's clear that making this endorsement..., and that Formula 1 race in Catalonia is meant to be a reversal and not a expense. This year, without going any further, the celebration of the Formula 1 Grand Prix race, which was celebrated this May in Montmeló, was an absolute success. Over the course of the week more than 250,000 people passed through the circuit, specifically 258,000. About sixty-thousand – and you're also referring to it – are people outside of Spain who make a great deal of money – between five hundred and a thousand euros per person – and it just has to multiply. And if that's what we add to the movement of people who don't go to the circuit if they come to the area and visit our home for the occasion, or also the tourist spending for events that are directly linked to it during that week, it's obvious that the need to guarantee the Formula 1 Grand Prize is not only justified, but it's completely indispensable. And that without counting something that's also very high and we need to put it in value, and that's that Formula 1 race saw it more than 24 million people all over the world. Therefore, we like or do not like motor sports, no one can deny that this fact alone supposes a great platform of promotion from Barcelona and Catalonia to the world. Now, counselor, taking advantage that we have this time to talk about the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya, I would also like to take advantage of it to make two precs or make two petitions. In the first place, to take advantage of the predisposition of the Government of Spain with the Circuit de Catalunya. The Government of the State considers Formula 1 Grand Prize to be an event of special public interest. And not only that, but for the first time, the year 2021 there was a direct injection of 2_million euros from the general assumptions of the State per rebre, to guarantee this race to Catalonia. And the second important thing is that I put the needle in the urban planning board of the circuit, a board that was approved in 2016, but that needs to develop its repartition and urbanization project. And you said it too, the circuit is not just sports, it must also be economic promotion. There are a lot of companies that want to install around the circuit; companies that are destined for sustainable mobility, where the circuit has to be flag, and we are losing opportunities, counselor. So we're asking you, please, as I said right now, to put the needle in the urban master plan and not to miss the train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.214.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs Isabel Lázaro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.215.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Counsellor. A good ruler is defined by the ability to identify the problems facing society and the ability to direct public resources to effective solutions, always taking into account the main priorities of the population. Decree-Law No. 8/2022 of 12 July, authorizing the Government to grant a guarantee to Circuitos de Catalunya and a counter-approval to the guarantor financial institution, does exactly the opposite. Our approach to Circuitos de Cataluña has not changed since March of this year, when we were able to make several observations regarding the contract of the circuit to the councillor in an information session of the Commission of Enterprise and Labour. We continue to think, Mr. Counsellor, that the most appropriate thing would be to take the exploitation of the circuit to public tender. Circuitos de Cataluña does not comply with the elements necessary for a management of public ownership to be better and more efficient than a private management and ownership. Therefore, we also do not think that the guarantee they seek to secure with this decree is in the right direction. First, the socialization of losses resulting from a more than likely endorsement payment deepens the serious budgetary misadjustments that the Generalitat of Catalonia has, and brings to light the current ruin of the circuit, which, for example, costs Catalans almost twice as much as they enter. Secondly, we are not talking about a basic good or service, exposed to market failures that have an impact on the operational capacity of a private sector company. If it is profitable..., we are convinced that the private sector can take charge of its management and ownership, assuming costs and responsibilities, and exploiting and enhancing the economic, labour and all those that are beneficial to the area. Gentlemen of the Government, if you are really so sure of the profitability and economic benefit of managing the circuit, do your utmost to provide the updated economic memory of the circuit and update all the reports of the Union of Accounts once and for all. Gentlemen of the Government, do you not believe that, in the face of an imminent economic crisis and social emergency, the work of the Government of Catalonia should be to prioritize resources and expenditure to cover essential needs? Look, do you know where the more than 20_millions of annual amount that they intend to back up or the more than 18_millions_of_euro per year that the circuit receives in grants or the more than 40_millions of ordinary expenditure could be allocated? With this money could be paid more than 1_million visits of primary care, more than fifty_ thousand surgical interventions in outpatients– imagine the reduction of lists, of the long waiting lists that we could make –, more than one thousand social housing with a fifty or one hundred_per_cent of public ownership, and could cover the cost of the dining room to more than twenty-five_ thousand children per year. Look, in conclusion, we fully understand the importance of the Circuit de Catalunya in terms of the image, reputation and tourism of our region, and therefore we believe that good private management and ownership can take the place of a harmful management of the Generalitat. The Government must prioritise expenditure and direct resources to the real problems of the Catalans, especially at a time as delicate as the one we are experiencing and, gentlemen, in the uncertainty that is to come. Mr. Counsellor, since I have one minute left, I just want to remind you that the Montmeló Grand Prix is called the Formula 1 Spanish Grand Prix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.216.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.217.0	Well, good afternoon. I believe that I do not need five minutes of time to expose the position of my parliamentary group to this decree. It's a decree that forms part of the package of the last contract with Formula 1, but what we're worried about is what's really..., isn't it? That is to say, here we are taking a series of public money for a series of events, Formula 1 and MotoGP – after I talk about it too – we make a few setbacks; but then, as if one looks at the numbers of the company of Formula 1, Liberty Media, of the Formula 1 Group, we see that it has benefits every year. So, we're doing some good to, if necessary, socialize the losers, but I know, when the 2021 Liberty Media closes with benefits, it doesn't socialize the benefits. So, well, let's say it's a little trick, which we end up doing, because it's: let's socialize the losers while, obviously, the private enterprise, the Formula 1 promoter, remains the benefits. Every year, the Government of the Generality has had to raise more money at the Circuit de Catalunya, because the Circuit de Catalunya is in deficit, but we finish signing contracts with Formula 1, which are 7.9_million a year for five years, from 2022 to 2026. So, there's also 24_millions..., about 25_millions to finance an investment in works in the contract mark for the renewal of Formula 1 – initially it has to be until 2024; then, we all know how the public work goes in this country, that it's quite doubtful that 2024 is over and what we said would cost –; then there's 25_millions_dollars a year for the operator, Liberty Media, this operator who ends up every year with benefits; then, there's more..., we add 45_millions per five years for the operator Dorna, of MotoGP, for only three races in the period, right? From 2022 to 2026. We make a counter, and then, a year later, the Government of the Generalitat takes public money more to the Circuit de Catalunya because it is deficient. And it's argued with all the impact benefit studies that have been done in different years around. What we're thinking is: at a time when we're looking at a rethinking of the country's industrial sector, we can bet on a new model and not follow it, as my companion Dani Cornellà said this morning, for the usual greenwashing, that it's just doing the same thing by putting the green label on it and changing it a little bit, but in fact it's making it easier, that's this green capitalism, that's a few getting rich at the cost of the rest, which we do, isn't it? ...or, under this argument, what we do is continue to maintain a system of great events that... oh! , the socialist deputy said: « Fixi's, there are people who spend five hundred or a thousand euros the head of the week to go to Formula 1. I don't know how many people in this country can spend between five hundred and a thousand euros to go to an event a week. Therefore, what we are doing and promoting are elitist events dedicated to a few people, to a few people, especially those who come from outside – above all, it was not the case that those from here enjoy sporting events taken care of – and, therefore, what we do is to continue to reproduce this model of tourism of great events. And it's not a question of whether or not the engine sector likes it; it's not a question of taste, it's a question of sustainability, it's a question of the future, it's a question of ensuring work places, of talking about quality work places, and, above all, it's a question of having a country where you can work and live decently, and not that it's converted or not converted..., or I don't take part in this predatory speculation, that's what any of these macro-events are doing, and it's what makes the Circuit de Catalunya, and, above all, it's what they want to do even more than this PDU that the Socialist Party claimed to pull out of it and that, in fact, we ourselves have courted it out of hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.218.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.219.0	Well, then good time. We will not endorse the decree to endorse the Circuit de Catalunya; we have already made it to the council because you know it. And we will not support it because we understand that the need for public approval as a payment guarantee is determined by the lack of solvency of the company that manages the circuit. Well, here we have a problem: the lack of solvency of the company that manages the circuit forces to have to make a endorsement with public funds, when the activities that realize the circuit – the Formula 1 championship or the motorcycle championship – end up having benefits, but the company has no solvency and this requires to make a public endorsement. I think this is where the problem is and what we don't support this decree, right? Because we're bringing public funds back to an activity that's not self-supporting, that's not self-sufficient. And we believe that the circuit, which has an important impact on the territory– and the adviser explained it: in the service sector, transport, the inn, restoration, oci, trade, etc.–..., it is true, there is this impact, but it is also certain that what we need is a strategy that makes this infrastructure self-sufficient, that it is able to integrate the set of activities that are carried out, but it also drives the development of the whole and the economic also in the territory. A strategy that also makes the circuit an engine of innovation and industrial initiatives, with a strategy of transformation, of ecological transition and such. Therefore, we need to have a strategy, and not to install ourselves in periodic public contributions, any other year, whether in the form of grants or in the form of downstreams, which do not help to develop this integrated infrastructure at the joint of the territory with the motor of activity. Therefore, we believe that it is not a matter of repeating the endorsements, but rather of defining a strategy. And what we're not supposed to be saying is no, no, let's say another time, that we're going to do the strategy, because we're going to do the strategy again, because we're going to do the strategy again, and we're going to do the strategy again, and we're going to do the strategy again. First we do a strategy and then we talk about downstream, because, if not, it's how long you're going to trust me! And we didn't hear much talk about strategy, but we don't just see how the strategy is being developed; but it does have a Formula 1 championship, which has benefits, but it does have a company that doesn't have the economic sufficiency to not need to be endorsed to manage itself as such. Therefore, we will not vote on the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.220.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.221.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Councillors, the Government of the Generality presents today this Decree Law, on 8/2022 of 12 July, promulgated on behalf of the King for the President of the Generality, this Generality as the same Lord Aragones in so-called republican. The object of this decree is to give legal coverage so that the Government lends an endorsement to the participating company Circuits de Catalunya, and a endorsement before the secured entity, in order to guarantee the payment of contractual rights for the organization of the Gran Premi d'Espanya of Formula 1 of the years 2023 to 2026. I wanted to make these two clarifications, because they allow us to place much better in the reality of things. The law decree, like all those approved by the Government of the Generality, is promulgated on behalf of the king. And the Grand Prix de Formula 1, which is held on the circuit of Catalunya, in Montmeló, is the Grand Prix d'Espanya. This Parliament, in this specific question, that of the validation of the decree which it occupies, will fully exercise its powers of competence. In this matter, this Parliament and all of us, as Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, have full competence – competence, which is not small. When we talk about a company like Circuits de Catalunya, participated by the Generalitat, which has more than seventy-eight_per_cent of the shares, and which in fact controls it, we cannot escape the irregularities in its management. Irregularities that were the parliamentary news in the year 2020, when the Commission of Enterprise, at the request of Ciutadans, approved the appearance of the general agent of the Generality because we presented the audit report on the management of Circuits of Catalonia. I say we can't escape the irregularities of management in Circuits de Catalunya because we're talking about a company involved in which the bulk of capital is public money. The main shareholder of Circuits de Catalunya is the Generalitat de Catalunya as a very majority partner, with the seventy-eight_per_cent of the shares, and which usually covers the holes is the Generalitat de Catalunya, which injects millions of euros a year. According to Ciutadans, the Government of the Generality would have to do something more because this participating company has better results and failed to register lost. In this sense, as the government makes the ad hoc efforts to improve the profitability of the company, so as to prevent Circuits de Catalunya, under the umbrella of public funds, play the game of rubber supposition. Well, today we're talking about a contract agreement between Circuits de Catalunya and the company that owns Formula 1. To give approval to Circuits de Catalunya and the endorsement before the entity will finance the guarantor for the contract of promotion of the race with the Championship of the Món de Formula 1, in order to guarantee the payment of the contractual rights for the organization of the Grand Prize of Formula 1, of the Grand Prize of Spain of Formula 1 of the next four years, from 2023 to 2026. We're talking about billionaires downstream. We are talking about 25 million dollars for the year 2023, 25 million dollars for the year 2024, 26 million dollars for the year 2025 and 28 million dollars for the year 2026. We are talking about US dollars, but with the current change we are talking practically about euros. Sense of doubt, a lot of money. But we're clear that we're talking about downstream, not public fund injection to lost fund. Now, we must also bear in mind that the end result of the public effort to keep Formula 1's Spanish Grand Prix at the Montmeló circuit will depend on the good management that makes the company benefit from these downsides, Circuits de Catalunya. The question we have to ask ourselves is: how do we keep the Montmeló circuit in the calendar of the Formula One Championship? Is it beneficial for Catalonia to keep the Spanish Grand Prix on the Montmeló circuit? From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we believe it is: the Formula 1 Spanish Grand Prix, as do other motor competitions at the same circuit in Montmeló, is a window that we open to the world. The economic impact in the Eastern Valley, for Barcelona and for the entire metropolitan area is undeniable. Hundreds of millions have been mentioned. We need to recognize and know that the economic impact of the circuit of Catalonia is, in the field of the great events, practically the second impact in import, in the great events that are organized annually in Catalonia, all right after the Mobile World Congress, which is certainly also rejected by some of the groups that today will reject, therefore, this decree law. From Ciutadans we diem « yes to the circuit, yes to Formula 1, and we ask the Generality that, in addition to valuing Circuits of Catalonia, you make the effort necessary to develop industrially and economically the area of the circuit. Six years ago, there was a green light, with an approved urban director board. And it's time, too, for the government to wire the needle and push the economic space around the circuit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.222.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.223.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, we'll give support to this decree. I'll try to explain to him, in a nutshell, the motius. First, a fundamental question: Does Catalonia have to aspire to organize major international events in the field of sport, in the social, technological and other fields? The answer is yes, it is part of the successful tradition of the history of Catalonia, which, of course, has been trembling in the past few years. Now, also in the later years there is one question, which does not everyone have a seeming answer: what exactly is a great international event for Catalonia? Now I'm going to make a headline for August 2nd of 2021; it's said, practically a year ago not yet: « The Barcelona project, world capital of the cannabis. This was an international project that had rejected the support of the CUP, the commons, Esquerra and the surprising support of the PSC at the plenary of the Barcelona Assembly. Well, this for us was not a good international project for Catalonia. And, therefore, the fact that they thundered and that finally Barcelona..., fortunately – beyond the individual practices that each one has, which I do not have – is not the world capital of the cannabis, of the moment – of the moment, no. We will still be in time to avoid it, I hope so; but it is not. In change, Catalonia, organizing a great prize of Formula 1, yes, it is a great international event and, therefore, it is great news that Catalonia can continue. And from this point of view, I have to say that it did a lot of time – a lot of time – that we didn't see, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia..., and, well, many times – the vast majority –, the ninety-nine percent of the time, we come out here to criticize what the Government is doing and I don't have much more reason to congratulate Mr. Torrent, who is the first time that happiness has ever been known to him for many years. We've known each other for many years. I know I'm not doing him any favors, that someone will come to terms with you because of the fact that I congratulate him, but I don't have much left but to congratulate him on the decree he has today, which we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.224.0	Thank you very much. Then, it's Junts' return to Catalonia, and Mr. Ramon Tremosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.225.0	Thank you very much, President. Conseller Torrent, Conseller Giró, MPs, MPs, well, many things have been said and I would not like to repeat, but, well, today the Government presents us with a decree on the renewal of Formula 1, which refers to the contract and, therefore, we, from Junts to Catalonia, are in favour and we will support this decree, right? As we've done in the last few years... I myself have had the honour of being Business Advisor and President of the circuit two years ago, and under very complicated conditions, so we were able to renew and guarantee this continuity, which we believe is very positive for Catalonia. Plus, Formula 1 forgave us one year the $25 million canon, didn't it? And, in this sense, it helped us a lot that two years ago the type of change in the euro was much stronger than it was now – almost 1.3_euros per dollar – and so you got a lot more out of it than this year, the renewal. Therefore, this decree seeks to ensure the celebration of the Formula One Grand Prix in Catalonia and we understand that this is positive. The circuit of Catalonia is an authentic economic engine and, moreover, Catalonia is a country of motor that has given great champions, it is a country with a lot of skill, of long tradition, both industrial and sporting in this area. So I wouldn't feel like giving up and letting go of this opportunity, because, more importantly, Formula 1..., the drivers, the teams, the fans want to come to Catalonia; if not, we would have already lost this disposition, because many other cities and many other countries offer more money than today's cost to the Generality, so renew this arrangement with Formula 1. Well, not to repeat myself, I'll talk a little bit about the economic impact. There is a lot of economic literature. You will find in many countries that many universities calculate what is the impact of a great sporting event. And there is enough coincidence in saying that in projects and events that have a great global network, with global audiences, that mobilize hundreds of thousands of people, this impact is very favorable. Each euro that is injected into the promotion of this event ends up being four, five, six, times in euros that boost GDP. And, in this sense, the great increase in economic activity also entails an increase in the collection of taxes, which in the case of the circuit of Catalonia compensates with increase this contribution that we make of 25_million the year. Therefore, all those parties that today will vote that do not, that suffer because this public money has an opportunity cost that could be spent on social policies, etc., know that what we do from the Generality to drive this event is to generate an increase in GDP, which generates a much larger increase in the recaptancy of the injection that we do. And in this sense, the MP from the PSC was saying that it's not a expense, but it's a reversal, and we share that statement, right? So, then, a little debate would go well in this sense. And if they suffer, for example, in the Parliamentary Group of VOX, for this public money that misleads Formula 1, they could make a proposal to reform the financing model, which you know since 2009 has expired and which objectively discriminates Catalonia. Therefore, this would allow us to generate, to have some resources that we would certainly serve in other social policies. And, finally, as the company advisor, conseller Torrent, the circuit of Catalonia has been advancing in sustainability for many years: today, the office is already supplying itself to the cent_per_cent with renewable energy; it manages its resources in a circular way; it has a cure of its forest environment; it has received environmental awards and certifications and various recognitions of many years ago, and, moreover, the circuit has a strategy and works to completely eliminate carbon dioxide emissions in a proper time. And, so, so, there's a lot of work going on in that sense, too. To sum up, therefore, my intervention: so that the circuit of Catalonia follows an economic engine of the Eastern Valley and of all Catalonia, we will also support this decree, and we will also support the different parliamentary groups which we approve for a large majority of this decree, which allows the Catalonian economy to have an increase in GDP, an increase in activity, a worldwide recognition campaign, because the MotoGP prize is promoted as CatalanGP all over the world and, therefore, we understand that this is a good thing and we would like to see the whole Parliament of Catalonia supporting this decree today. Otherwise, the groups that say not to everything – common, CUP, in this case also, for what it looks like, VOX – will have to explain why this is understood as positive all the time is rejected another time for these extreme groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.226.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.227.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, at the risk of repeating a few things – it's what you're talking about in a later position – I'd add some reflections. The Councillor has explained very well that what he is proposing to vote today is not a new compromise; we are ahead of an instrument of legal character that he claims is to facilitate the enforcement of agreements that have already been entered into, commitments that concretely the Government of Catalonia authorized on November 23, 2021 and which Circuits de Catalunya contracted two days later. We are before a law decree with a single article, and they will allow me, as most of the people who have spoken before, that before a practically instrumental figure with a single article, I refer to three aspects not so much on the law decree, but on the basis of the question we are debating today. In the first place: what does it represent for the country? What is it that represents the circuit of Catalonia? Unlike other major European circuits, we are ahead of a public character project, a project with thirty-two years of history, a hundred_twenty_hectares built, a capacity for 140,000 spectators, 32,000 parking spaces, a number of international motor world championships are held and that generates an impact that has been explained in sufficient detail that, according to the reference indicators it takes, it is an impact on the economy that can shift between 100 and 200 million euros per year. I doubt that if we were to make the decision to make this macro-inversion today, it might not be a priority or we would not now have the economic capacity to deal with it. But today it is a reality and our obligation as parliamentary groups and, above all, that of the Government..., our obligation is to optimize and it is to drive an infrastructure that is important to the country, and our obligation is to adapt it to the new conditions and the new requirements of the 21st century. Secondly, the circuit forms part of a cluster of assets around the automotive sector. It has been discussed extensively, about the impact the circuit has on the tourism sector, on the sector you serve in general, but I would like to refer to the import for our country of what the automotive sector represents: a sector that occupies about forty_ thousand people, which generates about 20,000_million euros in billing, 350 companies that between 2016 and 2020 exported about seventy-five_per_cent of their production, and during the same period in Catalonia they registered up to twenty-six foreign investment projects, 1,000_million euros, which create 2,500 jobs in the automotive sector. Catalonia counts on companies throughout the automotive value chain and with an ecosystem of support to industry formed for engineering enterprises, for technology centres, R & D centres, commercial interests, universities, training centres. And from this ecosystem, Circuits de Catalunya is a piece today rising and we hope that in a future, with a new orientation, it will continue to do so even more. Thirdly, there are some thoughts about where this parliamentary group is going to evolve the circuit of Catalonia and which is quite in line with the orientation expressed by the appropriate councillor. The motor world is in its own transformation towards a more sustainable and more human mobility; the circuit cannot remain alienated from this transformation, it must not become an essential actor and a lever to ensure that the automotive sector continues to lag behind the territory. The circuit in Catalonia has to diversify its activity so as not to depend exclusively on Formula 1, and to target us in the sectors of entertainment, sports, commercial events, but also, as we have said before, around the industrial sectors, around the world of automotive. It is necessary to press the accelerator, as has also been manifested by some people, in this transformation. And we must also rethink the circuit, its associated urban development; a development that surely today is inconsistent with this vision that we all share. But to bring this project to a good place it also means to value the current actions of the circuit, and to do so today it is essential to guarantee the continuity of Formula 1. The endorsements and guarantees that we approve today will allow the circuit to continue as a world leader in the engine world and will especially allow you to continue working to transform it into a pole of industrial attraction, talent and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.228.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is understood that the votes claimed are votes in favour of its validation and, on the other hand, the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 8/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree Law 8/2022_was validated with 106 votes in favour and 25 votes against. According to Article 158.4 of the Rules, once it has been validated, I ask whether there is any group of the chamber that wants it to be transmitted as a bill. At the same time, that there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Designation of Members to defend before the Congress of Deputies the proposal of law guaranteeing the automatic depository service in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and guarantee in access to banking services]] [[271-00001/13]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The next item is the appointment of Members who are to defend before the Congress of Deputies the proposal of the law guaranteeing the automatic depository service in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and guarantee in access to banking services. In accordance with Rule 176.4 of the Rules of Procedure, it may designate up to a maximum of three Members, who shall defend the proposal of the Act in advance of the Congress of Deputies. The Members proposed are: Mr Lluís Salvadó, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left; Mr Jordi Munell, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and Mr Joan Carles Gallego, Member of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. In accordance with Article 101.3 of the Rules, this designation may be made by consent. Otherwise, it will be for the secret and electronic voting system. Can I take it for granted? [[Pause.]] No, no, We shall therefore proceed to the electronic and secret ballot. The vote begins. With 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against, 7 abstentions and 2 people who do not vote, Mr Lluís Salvadó, Mr Jordi Munell and Mr Joan Carles Gallego have been appointed as deputies. [[Greetings.]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the approval of the new social service programme contract (withdrawn)]] [[300-00209/13]] I have to inform them of an alteration. The Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia has withdrawn the question to the Government on the approval of the new social services programme contract. Therefore, tomorrow morning, we will substantiate the questions that correspond to points 13 and 14. And I also inform you that the motion following the question to the Government on the protection of the coastal environment, which is in line with the twenty-first point of the order of the day, according to the proposed group will pass to the nineth point. That is to say, we passed it in the morning and, therefore, it will substantiate before suspending the session at midday, with which in the late days we will only substantiate the last three motions, points 21, 22 and 23 of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on expenditure on aid and subsidies and on institutional advertising in communication media]] [[300-00212/13]] Let us now turn to the eighth item of the agenda to ask the Government about the expenditure on aid and subsidies and institutional advertising at the communication media, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. You have the word to expose it to Congressman Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.229.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor... From the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia we bring to this plenary a very interesting inquiry about the public spending they spend, of citizens' money, of taxes, to buy the media; public media, to subsidize private media and also to insert institutional advertising, both in private media and in public media. They target, as we all know, the 240_million_euro chill, through the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, which are four televisions– TV3, 33, Esport3, Super3 –, four radios– Catalunya Radio, Catalunya Informació, Catalunya Music, iCat FM. It is clear that they are means which, in clear disloyal competition, do not fulfil a social mission, but are instrumental, in the service of the rupturist project, the progressive consensus and the imposition of monolingualism. We reiterate that we must close these media – this is not the first time we say it – or sell them to the highest bidder. They are also dedicated to subsidizing private media with millions of euros. Catalans cannot save and suffer to arrive at the end of the month, many companies are closing down or have to drastically reduce their staffing, and we suffer a very powerful social crisis due to inflation, and the Generalitat increases by twenty-six_per_cent the subsidies to digital media in Catalan. You are unable to understand what we were talking about in the previous decree, the difference between ideological spending and productive spending with social return, which, by the way, is usually in one and a half and you assume that here could be in the ten. You subsidize the means to promote your ideology, your story, silence criticism and guarantee praise and good treatment; that is, you buy the media and silence dissent. They target millions of euros – 3_million – for one hundred_five digital portals that end up folding to their harmful policies and official truth. More than €4 million for paper press, and millions for local radio and television. We have so many examples. And I do not want to bore Members, but I will comment on some. The Ara, in periodical press edition, because there are many games, 147,000_euros; the El Nacional Group, by José Antich, 144,000_euros; the El Món Group, 136,000_euros; VilaWeb, 93,000_euros; the digital portal of the RAC 1; Lerinform de Lleida, with Garrigues Televisió, Noguera Televisió, Pla d'Urgell Televisió, Segarra Televisión, Segarra Televisión ; El Punt Avui, Con 68,000_euros; El Periódico de Cataluña ; Totmedia communicó, con todos "all, which integrates about 240_medias between free press and digital newspapers: Tot Sant Cugat, Tot Rubí, Via Empreses, Catalunya M'agrada, Pares i Nens. The Grupo Som, from Abacus, also receives a cash for Cuina. as, find out. Cat, Sapiens. Cat, Som Granollers. What, we're in Llagosta. Cat, we're the French. As, Som Mollet. Cat, Som Montmeló. As, Som Parets. cat, "we're a waste of money. How much. Catalunya Diari Digital, València Diari, Regió 7, El Segre, El Nou, El Critic, Diari d'Andorra, La Mañana de Lleida, La República, Diari Altaveu, Racó Català, El Periódic d'Andorra, Ràdio Estel. Come on, an endless one. I also grants for press written in Catalan. The El Punt Group, 586,000_euros– El Punt Avui, l'Esportiu de Catalunya –; La República ; La Vanguardia, with 510,000; Premsa periódica Ara, with 381,000_euros– Diari Ara, Ara Balears –; El Periódico de Catalunya ; El Segre ; again the Som Group, also on paper but another very large game; Diari de Girona, El 9, El Temps, Diari d'Andorra, Cavall Fort, Catalunya Cristiana, Enderrock, Time Out, El Triangle, La Directa, L'Avenç, l'Independent de Gràcia. An endless waste on subsidizing the media. And where they don't come with the direct subsidy to the private media, then they place the institutional advertising you manage, Mr. Counsellor, with another million– more than 30_million_de_euros –; million that hasn't stopped growing: in 2014 we were around 18_million, and in 2020 – out of 21 the figures have to definitely come out – about 33_million_de_euros. Meanwhile, in Catalonia, during these six years, the rental price has increased by thirty_and_six_per_cent and is kept below the European average what is the official protection housing. To compare and explain the disorbited nature of this institutional advertising..., it bothers me to make comparisons, but the Generalitat, with 8_million inhabitants, has invested the same as the State with 47_million inhabitants, more or less..., if it doesn't, eh? 122 with 113. Almost 30_million institutional advertising is distributed in paper, digital, radio and television media. A real indecency that you burn money from Catalans when we are immersed in one of the worst economic and social crises in our recent history. Examples of institutional advertising. Sixty-one television stations, fourteen per cent of the budget. Here it is, obviously TV3, Mediaset de Roures, Atresmedia, even The Sixth ; 407_print media that take the thirty_and_one_per_cent of the budget; 55 radio stations; 231_Internet media have you there subsidized; also social networks such as YouTube, Twitter, Spoty, Facebook, Instagram ; eighteen external advertising circuits; Godó Group, always at the forefront of receiving public money and being conditioned by power: La Vanguardia, RAC1, Sports World, with 6,300,000euros; Iberian Press of El Periódico con el Sport, 2,700,000_euros; Premsa Ara, 1,700,000_euros; Nació Digital, El Nacional, VilaWeb again receive money through institutional advertising; 20 Minutes, Discover. I also do not escape the music chains– The 40 Principals, Catalunya Ràdio, Flaixbac, Chaina Ser –, Public, Time Out. And the Catalans are suffering a very strong social crisis and it's going to get worse. There are serious problems in health care with waiting lists, doctors are missing; in education, apart from lack of freedom, we have a lack of resources for schools, for families that cannot reach the end of the month and they are very hard to pay for their children's dining room or their children's textbooks; social emergencies: the most unemployed without resources, dependent, without help and without care; inflation, which is greatly damaging the pockets of Catalans and these are posing or canceling their holidays this summer. And look, in subsidies and institutional advertising, to buy means are spent about 40_million_of_euro, and with those 40_million_of_euro we could pay 800,000 visits of primary care, 210,000 food costs for children, 37,000 surgical interventions in outpatient clinics, 16,000 school places or 1,100 social housing units. What do you think the thousands of elders who are waiting for their hip prostheses operation would think that they cannot be operated on because you prefer to throw the money into buying media? I'm telling you, anger and indignation. [[Some applause.]] And if it is serious that they spend everyone's money on buying media – 300_million in total – the worst is the intention with which they do it, because the rule of law..., in a rule of law and in a democratic system, respect for press freedom is fundamental. Freedom of the press is fundamental to ensuring that society is well informed and can be free to make the right decisions – it is fundamental. And you, with your grants, dynamite the right to true information. The press has functions of control, counterweight and surveillance of political power. It used to be called the fourth power and it controlled the first, which was the executive. But what happens when the first one keeps the room? What happens when the Government of the Generalitat waters the press with millions? Exactly, that this one becomes docile to the government and this one will never bite the hand that gives him food. Look, your policy of allocating so many millions of euros to the media becomes an end to freedom of the press and to put the official truth in a totalitarian way, a loss of resources for essential and urgent issues, and a real theft for Catalans. Finally, Mr Councillor, it is intolerable that, in the midst of a social and economic emergency, you waste millions of euros. We demand that you put an end to this bloodthirsty of taxing to buy from the media and to ensure the prosperity and well-being of the middle and working classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.230.0	He has the word, to answer the question, the Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.231.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. Garriga, look, before I answer them, I wanted to memorise them. I wanted to remind you of something you still have hanging out with me. Since the last inquiry, about three months ago, you had to remember, I told you that it was hard for me to get a precise idea of the political project VOX has for Catalonia, because the program with which you were to run for election only had a page. You replied that this page was a summary of a larger document. And I asked him to get to me as soon as possible. Since that interview, every morning when I arrive at the office, I ask if Mr. Garriga's program has arrived, but the answer is always the same: "Not yet, counselor. I'm sure he's been an innocent oblivion and so I'll keep waiting. Let me know that I have a lot of interest in knowing what, at the moment, I can only qualify as a VOX ghost program. Let's get to the bottom of the question, if that's what it looks like. You asked me about the expenditure on aid and subsidies and institutional advertising in the communication media. The first thing I want to say to him is that, as you're used to doing, they're sweeping things up. It is not the same aid and subsidies as institutional advertising. Aids and grants are managed by the Office of the Secretary of Communications of the Department of the Presidency, and, moreover, manages the chapter of projects, which has been recovered after two years, and all is paid together a total of 12_million euros. If I may, I will focus on the area that is the competence of the Department of Economics. Of course, Catalonia can assume to enjoy an ecosystem of communication media in exceptionally plural Catalan. I'd love to see this same diversity in other places where it's just the chateau. I shall therefore refer to the expenditure on institutional advertising in the media, which is managed directly by the Secretary of Dissemination. This year 22 we have a presupposition of 29_million euros plus VAT. This xifra, Mr. Garriga, represents a 0.076_percent of the total budget of the Generality, and corresponds to an expenditure of approximately EUR 4,6_per citizen– EUR 4,6_per citizen. The advertising assumption of the Junta de Castilla y León, on which you govern, for this year 22 is of 11_million euros, which represents 0.085 of the total assumption of the Junta and is corresponding to 4.5_euro per inhabitant. You see, Mr. Garriga, the figures are very similar. Therefore, first point: our level of advertising expenditure is not, nor much less, exaggerated, unless you think that it is also exaggerated the level of advertising expenditure of the Junta de Castilla y León. Second point. Beyond what it's spent, what's important is how it's spent. And in this area I must say that I do not know the administration of the State, including the Central Administration, which does so with more professionalism and rigour than the Government of Catalonia. Do you know why? Because there is no government that is as transparent as ours and that has an annual memory as exhaustive as ours. You may know – and that is why this relationship was so thorough today – the detail – that I could not make of Moncloa's expense, by the way – of what campaigns have been made, what they have cost and how much they have received every month. Up until this year, with full transparency, you can compare the average amount of the previous year compared to the year of the published memory. And they have orders by volume of assignment, because no one has to look for it, the media that have rejected institutional advertising. I just talked about the annual advertising memos. Do you know who publishes these memos? They are not published by the Department of Economics; they are published by a council of twenty members, most of whom are independent and represent, among other agents, universities, municipal entities, the advertising sector or the Catalan Institute of Donations. A council that meets every quarter to help plan campaigns in a more efficient, inclusive and economic way. As far as I know, there are no other governments all over the state with an independent consulting organ with these powers and powers. Mr. Garriga, the criteria that guide the Diffusion Secretary's action are strictly technical. And, of course, I'd like to take advantage of it to give thanks from the Faristol to the Secretary of Diffusion, Mr. Jofre Llombart, and to all his team for the magnificent work they're doing. In order to make an ever-recommendable renewal of suppliers, we called for an open and competitive tender, and we just assigned a lot in the agreement mark with six centrals that will manage digital advertising; six purchasing centres to manage digital advertising. And for the next few weeks, we'll sign a lot of four media stations – all this for competitions – that will manage the allocation of traditional channel space, such as paper newspapers, radios, televisions and advertising tanks. What I want to say to you with all this, Mr. Garriga, is that, by the more skirmishes you make, the generality's institutional publicity is unattainable for what it does to procedures and for what it does to assignments; it is unattainable for what it does to the price we get; unattainable for what it does to the media strategy and unattainable for what it does to the results of the campaigns, which we monitor until the last impact. A woman's advertising focused on audiences being pursued by the Government of Catalonia, and that's why we're hiring TV3 space to the Catholic Church Religion portal, which you didn't mention, going through webs like dating. with, uh, addressed to families with kids and girls at home. Always, yes, we plan advertising to media that already exist and that are on the march, not the promises, and it's all about media that are present in Catalonia – all about media present and on the march to Catalonia – some of the sovereignist line and others of the unionist line, the majority in Catalonia, but also others in castle. You, in your media relationship, seemed to me to be oblivious – sure that without wanting – of Spanish media like Pisa, Iberian Press, Atresmedia or Mediaset. I'm telling you why you amplified your list. It's all in memory. As you know, we could say that, at least, half the citizens who live in Catalonia – and at least – are independent. And, according to VOX's thinking, all the citizens, think what they think, they're Spanish. So, well, do you know how many dollars have been thrown away from the Spanish government only in Catalan and from a sovereignist editorial line? Do you know how much money? Can you tell me? Say a sip. I'll say zero-zero. We, in total, last year, wanted to contract space in more than eight hundred mediums of all the editorial lines, with imports from 3.5_millions, contracted with Televisión de Catalunya, until the sixty-six euros of a radio falca to the local radio of Tarragona. I'm done. When a government is sure of what it does, it has no problem giving up until the last detail of its government action. Do you know why, Mr. Garriga? Because when a government does good things, when a government does what it wants, then an opportunity to communicate is an opportunity to presume. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.232.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.233.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Counselor, for your answer. I'll send you the program summary. Now you pass me, then, in the hallway the direction. But, of course, are you going to read it to him? Because as long as the sanitary cord of the separatists and socialists goes towards my political formation, for you it will be wet paper and I suppose you won't even read it. [[Some applause.]] You said that we mix resources for public media, subsidies for private media and institutional advertising. Yes, we mix it in the interpellation in which we focus on advertising institutional media, because they have a denominator, which is buying media. We will enter into your negotiation, which is institutional advertising and which you say is necessary and carried out by all governments. Evidently, he has already said the proportion of the State Government with the Generalitat de Catalunya, which, having about 8_million inhabitants and another 47 to administer, allocate the same. That's deorbited. About Castile-Leon. Don't worry, we've started, we've gone with the pruning scissors. Let's start with the unions. We have been able to reduce trade union subsidies from 40 to 20 million. And we also go through the media, so that they are free and can exercise their right to freedom of the press without the pressure or the purchase of politicians. Institutional advertising must be geared to the principles of public utility, general interest, professionalization, transparency and institutional loyalty, contrary to what the Generalitat has been doing for years. You have assumed rigor, that they do it as a fable and that, come on, it's spectacular how they distribute institutional advertising. A recent study of the renowned academic journal of political studies concludes quite the opposite: that the successive tripartite governments of CiU, Junts pel Si, Junts per Catalunya with Esquerra Republicana have planned the campaigns with arbitrary criteria, benefiting strikingly to related media. Quite the opposite of what you said. From the data analyzed it is concluded that there is a clear discrimination to media – which I will name some – for example, such as The Reason, ABC, The World or the COPE chain. There is a clear criminalization of means that combat separatism or that are simply liberal or conservative. In short, his media policy is summed up in two words – and I'm wrong to say it, but so it is –: waste and indoctrination. And let me ask him rhetorically again and dare to answer him: What happens when the Government of the Generalitat waters the press with millions? And I say again, exactly, that it becomes docile and does not bite the hand that gives it to eat. What happens when Giró distributes more than 30 million euros to the press? That Mrs. Borràs already has dolphin. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Dolphin – Dolphin. Counselor, you have time to think this August and refresh the ideas. And in the next plenary, in the motion, we will propose interesting proposals to, first, liberalize public media under the yoke of power; secondly, eliminate subsidies from private media to avoid buying opinions; thirdly, reduce institutional advertising to what is essential. With two clear objectives: firstly, to respect freedom of the press, which is fundamental in a rule of law, and secondly, to allocate tax resources to the essentials of security, education, infrastructure and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.234.0	I, in the replica turn, has the word the counselor turned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.235.0	Thank you, President. We were, Mr. Garriga, you said many things, I will try to answer you in this area of reply. But, look, what's hard for me to know is that it's repeated again about buying media and buying journalists, which seems to me..., honestly, it's embarrassing – honestly, it's embarrassing. Since you've been thinking about this, you hardly know we have a certain rebound these days. If one thing became clear – if one thing became clear; one – it was that TV3 journalists, once again, asked all the questions they wanted President Borràs. So his theory doesn't hold up for the rest of it. Because your theory that we pay to buy volunteers..., listen, please, Mr. Garriga, don't offend journalists, don't offend this chamber or offend anyone. Look, I'm afraid that as much as I insist on it, whatever you say, you're not going to be satisfied, because you want us to abandon the català, that we have a Catalonia written with the letter in it, and that you aspire to a culturally impoverished country and a citizen who is unable to think for himself. He's doing them for a country we think about freedom. And you would like to close the advertising, close the institutional support to freedom of expression, close the diversity of opinion. And if that's not enough, shut down the Generality and actively promote the extinction of our language. Miri, for the sake of the country, for the sake of all the citizens, for the sake of my daughters and theirs, for the sake of our nets, I hope that the day will never come when you can rule Catalonia. The loss that in all senses this could mean would be irreparable. Mr. Garriga, we know that doing politics from the opposition is relatively easy and it is still easier if there are no scruples at the time of making criticism and judgment. But you see here that, as you have made a hole in the government of Castile-Leon, you too are under scrutiny of public opinion. Miri, divenders passat, on July 15, the Board's Councillor for Tourism and Culture and Sport presented its most important advertising campaign of the year. It is equipped with 500,000 euros, a million euros. I'll ask you two questions about this campaign. First, do you know what this million euros of the Junta de Castilla-Leon is destined for? I remember it: launch date July 15th. The advertisement is intended to promote Castile-Leon as a tourist destination – July 15, for the summer of 22. Second question: do you know who's at the front of the counseling? I see he looks like he took it with the little change. Don't forget, I remember his name: he's a gentleman who's called Gonzalo Santonja, from VOX. And I will ask you a third question: do you really think, Mr. Garriga, that it is an example of efficiency to allocate half a million euros in advertising to promote foreign tourism during the summer from July 15th? Do you really think it's efficiency? Is it that you don't know when the packages of "tour operators" are stored or when families plan their holidays? Mr. Garriga, until now I thought that the cause of the character such fantasies of your program for Catalonia was the least you feel for the country, but now we know that there is an additional reason that explains the simplicity of your plans: simply, you don't know how to do it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.236.0	Let's move on to the new order of the day, the question to the Government on the economic situation, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Question to the Government on the economic situation]] [[300-00214/13]] And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.237.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies and deputies. Benvolgut Councillor, the 24th of February was the beginning of Putin's invasion of Ukraine, in Europe alone, an invasion that already lasts five months and that is clearly changing the political world panorama, right? He gave the Manel Castells the other day, in an article he published in La Vanguardia, that the cock is over, huh? "That's what the article called it," and so he said, "we're going into a completely different scene, aren't we? , a very different scene from what we have known in the past decades, in which we did get a certain amount of money, but that was the end; he said, with his words, that we were entering a new Cold War, which is obviously affecting us in all spheres of our life, not just politics, but many others. In this sense, Europe – Spain, and also Catalonia – is patenting the consequences of this war; some consequences that are political and that somehow affect our democratic system, this European that defends values, the state of welfare, but also economic ones, aren't they? , with the increase, therefore, of inflation, the increase of raw materials, the energy crisis. This is clearly harming families and our businesses as well. In the face of this crisis, it is true that Europe has taken a much firmer position than other times before crises, in a much more united, braver, more ambitious way, and has put on the table answers that I think we can all value positively. Now, not everyone, somehow, is doing the same thing, and we, in this sense, know that we are critics looking at Catalonia. The Government of Spain has passed various decrees, anti-crisis measures, decrees that have tried and support families and businesses in a very clear way. He's done it with ambitious measures, with a lot of resources on the table to try to deal with these effects so hard that it's true that this war is causing, isn't it? It is true that, in this sense, in many of these decrees there has not been the support of some Catalan parties – we have enjoyed ourselves. We think we should try to row at such a difficult time in the economy, but, well, we haven't had this fate, have we? Some of the words that we've heard from Vice President Puignero again today, that said, well, that were populist measures and that were free and such transport, came hard to me. Well, it must be that, obviously, the vice president, so it doesn't cost him to arrive at the end of the month and his situation is comfortable – and, well, I'm glad, I'd just miss it, wouldn't I? But there are a lot of families in Catalonia who are hard to reach at the end of the month. You also know, Counselor, that you have spoken many times about this and your sensibility. It is difficult for them to arrive at the end of the month – probably they have put up their mortgage, because they have increased the types of interest, they have put up the purchase, at these times, facing this de_percent of inflation – and, therefore, they have lowered the subscription of the transport, which means, perhaps, getting away..., that the family has risen to three hundred or four hundred euros that cost them that their daughter went to study at the university. Well, maybe for Vice President Puignero, no, but for many families it's alluding to their family expenses. And so it doesn't seem populist to us, but it just seems to us that what it does is help families. Obviously – and so did you one day – this will not help lower inflation. No, no, It's just that the policy they've been doing since the Spanish government won't help lower inflation. Inflation is a little more complicated; the fight against inflation must be waged with monetary policy, and that clearly depends on the European Central Bank, right? What we have to do here is to be on the side of the families with this populist measure that Vice President Puigneró says, but we clearly believe that what he will do is pal·liare, lighten the expenses, the costs of the families in this last quarter. So... I've set the example of students going to college, but I could, too, get a lot of workers to take public transportation to get to their place of work, And with this, of course, we believe and are convinced, therefore, that much effort is being made – they are making Europe, they are making the Government of Spain – and we are asking what the Government of Catalonia is doing. Because the government passed a decree several weeks ago, which called it "anti-crisis measures", of some EUR 120 million, which did not help families, nor companies; they were very concrete measures in energy issues, but without much impact. And, on the other hand, we have seen how there are other autonomous communities, which President Aragonès was talking about today, that have done the work, right? Autonomous communities that have the same problems, say, prosecutors or finance that the Government of Catalonia has, and I'd say some more, right? The Valencian Community..., the other day, which we held here by the former Economic Adviser and which says, therefore, that the situation of the Generality, for which it does the autonomic tax system, or finance, is much more painful, isn't it? , negative that to Catalonia. Well, the Valencian Community made a decree, the first decree, as early as April, and put in almost 1,000_million euros of aid to businesses and families. The Balearic Islands also did so during the month of March. And I ask myself: what difference is there between these two autonomous communities and the Government of the Generality, my Government? Probably these governments are left-handed and Catalonia's, no. And, therefore, there are clear measures there to help families and businesses – I would already like it to be different. And look, we've sent proposals and tried to help in this sense, but we didn't get out. Difficult times come, it is true, and economists say that at a later stage it will be complicated and that, therefore, governments will have to think about this. I'd like to know, Counselor, what the Government of the Generalitat has predicted, since it has not done so so far; what measures do you intend to develop to help these families and businesses that clearly suffer and suffer a lot, right? And I warn you, with all due respect, that I'm not going back to tell you about the resources, am I? , "resources..., because clearly, we have few... Well, "we have few, we have few, but escorted, 2021 closed with 34,000_millions of unfunded expenditure, and spent if you 34,000_millions in public education, health care, career paths, etc. I mean, it's a lot of money. Jo, honestly, together, everyone can't imagine. I don't know, there's a lot of them. But it's that, besides, you closed the year 2021 with a deficit of 0.3. It is not that you obviously like me that the deficit increases; but it is true that you had the opportunity to have done more in need, because here the Government of Spain was flexible, as you had asked, among other things, and, in turn, only arrived at 0.3. It's the lowest deficit in the last two years. Home, you're surprising, huh? Mr. Cid. It's surprising, because, man, in a year of pandemic in which you surely want to put more resources into the welfare state and the public system to help people and families and businesses, so you just spent a little more than you were getting into, but not much more, as you may have done in other autonomous communities. And this is allowed because the spending rule was suspended and because Europe says: "Listen, at these times let's help families as much as possible. You didn't do it. Now we're looking at 2023, because we need to make a new assumption, counselor, and, well, I'd like to know what his layout is. Probably again, "Madrid, please, Governor d'Espanya, come in, but I already want to remind you that the past year, despite the flexibility, that could reach '1, you stayed at 0,3. And it doesn't have to be because we don't need it in the educational sphere, in the field of salvation... which, in fact, is our health system that, in order to devote more resources than ever, I think it's really where we're seeing or having more criticism than ever. Therefore, we would be happy to know, counselor, how you have also planted this 2023. And I'm telling you why, listen, you guys, when you want to, you tell us and you explain things to us in the middle, don't you? I'll give you two examples of how you want to be rigid, for example with Madrid, and in change it's very flexible here. I said it before, too, my companion, Congresswoman Esther Niubó. Councillor Cambray today has been very impressive – usually already there, he – here, explaining measures he would do in the educational field. Well, he said he's going to keep all the educators and social integration technicians he's had for the coven with resources coming from the Government of Spain, because we were in a pandemic. Obviously, 2022 wasn't there anymore. And he says: "I will keep them all. Well, then I said to Esther, "Everything? Are you sure? And Esther: "No, not all of them. Explain the truths to myths: you won't have to at the concert. At the concert school, Counsellor Giró – I don't know if you agree with this measure –, no; here he retails all of them. It means that 32_per_cent– one_third of our infants and young people– will be left without these resources, because they go to the school together. Home, Catalonia's educational service is public and concerted. So that's not good. And, on the other hand, for another band we see, advisor – and we are looking at it, and we are sure to see the Expedient to Economy – as you have unilaterally decided to recover Cedinsa's concession to the Transversal Axis, and to seek to rescue this concession 500_million euros between different departments; that I would like to know of five departments it has been 500_million euros. Because if what the departments need is to add 500_million euros to a concession that is honestly dubious... with dubious arguments, we say, in order to get it back, right? So it seems to me, in short, that sometimes in some things they lose sight, that you are very rigid in some cases, very flexible in others... But the most important thing: we would like to know how you focus this 2023, this assumption you see, and, above all, what measures you address to families and businesses..., of real impact – of real impact –, which I think is what concerns us all, because there are difficult times today, but they will certainly be more than tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.238.0	In the turn of the answer, has the word the Counsellor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.239.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mrs Romero... During the months of crisis, the Spanish Government has made some decisions in the line of the press to other countries, which I applaud, Mrs Romero, and which I do not mean to say, I value them positively, and I say so overtly. I recognise the good management, for example, before the European Commission, of the uniqueness of the Iberian energy market. I also recognise and positively value the bonus of twenty cents in fuels as an appropriate measure at the time. And also the better of vital minimum income or non-contributory minimum pensions, which are examples of measures in the right direction. Therefore, I agree with you and with President Sánchez on some of the measures, and above all I agree that inflation is a top economic problem. In fact – in fact – inflation is the problem we have about the table, and we need to talk about it enough. But it differs with you, or with you, with the Spanish government of the PSOE, in the diagnostic, in the prognostic and in the treatment. You attribute the price push to a tsunami of consumption. In Europe, our inflation, Mrs Romero, is faster for the supply side, and, above all, for the increase in prices of raw materials and fossil fuels. You know that last month we were going to have an inflation rate of 9,7_per_cent– 9,7 – in Catalonia, and that the underlying was 5,5. This means that the European Central Bank will have to run very first in order to avoid – to the proper measures, which will be tomorrow or tomorrow, of type – that restrictive monetary policies do not cause a recession. The moment is extraordinarily delicate, and with this panorama Mr. Pedro Sánchez is making, from my point of view, some important mistakes, which I should also say, because these errors affect our economy, affect us, all Catalans. The first mistake is the renunciation of a historic opportunity, at a time when there is no European leadership, to exercise it a European leadership in the diplomatic path. In last week's speech on the state of his birth, President Sánchez referred to President Putin several times. As Sanchez described it in these so-called references, Putin is the new incarnation of evil, the black beast of the West. According to this logic, which is so simple, the reception to manage the war goes through two fields of action: one, to continue feeding the war machine of Ukraine all the weapons that we can and without thinking about what will happen with these weapons when the war is over. And, secondly, try to strangle the Russian economy, an economy that is notoriously proving that it is more resilient than some expected. This is the strategy of the PSOE and which, from here to a few minutes you tell me the opposite, this is the strategy of the PSC. Mrs Romero, I'm as or more a Europeanist as you are. And about NATO I will tell you that from the outset, yes – from the beginning, from the beginning, yes – because I am convinced that for Catalonia it is a geostrategic act to form part of it. That said, the economic situation we're experiencing is that we can analyze it with the head – with the head and not with the stomach –; that we can analyze it with the head and not with these elections. And the situation is clear: either this war is over soon or this winter will be the coldest winter we have ever had. The increase in price began in a tedious and gradual way when the restriction to mobility after the pandemic was lifted. But the inflation that we're patenting today sees some sharps stuck in Russian gas pipelines; it sees some first materials stuck in the Black Sea ports; some cereals that have ceased to exist in the Ukrainian camps; some fertilizers that don't arrive in Europe because of restrictions on imports from Russia. In short, the first strategy against inflation in Europe – and it is what President Sánchez should try to do – is diplomacy. And as the diploma will end up imposing itself, as it would end up imposing itself in the norm of armed conflicts, perhaps the more we should put a thread to the needle at once and impose ourselves as soon as possible. The first mistake in the socialist approach to protect us from inflation is the confrontation with Russia. The confrontation with Russia is not a remei, it is not a remei; it is a cause, and the main causes of all the evils that rage in Europe. The second mistake is the lack of structural measures. Many of the measures taken so far by the government of Pedro Sánchez are improvised, poorly defined and ineffective in fighting against the high price. What we are dealing with are long-running structural measures that promote an economy that are resistant to the squabbles that are waiting for us from September onwards. And I see that a little bit in the state government. Think, for example, of the tax on banks and electricity announced last week as a star measure. Look, the bank has done a lot of bad things in the past few years, and some of them I've denounced myself since this phrastol, but the bank, Mrs. Romero, is not responsible for inflation. The problem is not that the bank is making a lot of money, that in winning, in winning a lot and in winning more with the push of type, but do you really think that with this tax on the bank will lower inflation? Does anyone believe that? Does anyone believe that? They were measures to fight inflation. They are calling for structural reforms, as he said before, and giving us the opportunity to prepare for what he sees. You also took the opportunity to speak again about the deficit margin of 0.3 last year, this year 21. Miri, I remind you that all the communities, without exception, had a lower margin of deficiency than was expected. For one reason, Mrs. Romero: because there were more than 2,000 million extraordinary funds that we don't have this year. And thanks to the extraordinary background, the margins of deficiency were below the maximum that had been said at the time. And since we are talking about the margin of deficit, I would appreciate it if you would help us, as I have already asked Minister Montero, that this year 22 be 0.4 and not 0.1 so far as they are concerned. And to the State 3.7, as they have sent to Brussels, which seems to me a centralist mindset of unmatched state. You also regained the idea that I thought I had already answered one day to the Member of Parliament taking Escarp about recovering the Transversal axis. We would if we understood each other. I understand you've had the PSC tricked by private entrepreneurs and private investment funds. I've had them too. But do you know what's going on? I listen to them politely and say goodbye to them, good morning. Do you understand me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, and for what it looks like, because it's the second time you've had it from the socialist bench, it must be that maybe this party so many lefts is, let's face it, more flexible in front of private sector demands. Esconti, l'eix Transversal..., l'eix Transversal – escuti'm, Mrs Romero –, that he signed with a toll in the shade of Councillor Joaquim Nadal, in 2010, in the contract of Councillor Joaquim Nadal there were three possible exits, in 2017, 2022 and 2027. 2022 there's a deal, a deal..., early resolution of the contract signed in 2010, as you can imagine, and for which the Government of Catalonia is raising 800_million euros if we make it now. Do you know what it would be like if I didn't do it as an economic advisor? You have a name for this: Prevaricate. If I don't do this, I'm prevaricating. Because the Generality from here to the year 40 will be up 800_millions. And when I called him back this French reversal, he explains it, that I already explained it in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.240.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.241.0	Thank you, President. See, counselor, every one goes from where you see it. And I guess we're all clear about what we're here. Look, I've already said inflation to what it's for and what it's for, and that's what we agree with you. I mean, I didn't make anything up, I didn't say anything different than what you said. Now, mistakes by the Spanish government. Home, I don't know, listen 'after another time, huh? Counselor. Errors of the Government of Spain. Well, there must be mistakes from France, Italy, Germany, the United States... Because what Spain is doing is the same policy: join a joint decision of Europe and also NATO in relation to this new political scene that we have in the world. I don't know exactly who you'd want to be with. He said: « Jo soc européenne. Well, then, if it is European, what Pedro Sánchez has done, which is what the European Union is proposing. If you are not European, then, obviously, you may be, well, I don't know, with other countries, I don't want to quote them. But what is clear is that the mistakes of the government of Pedro Sánchez must be the mistakes of Europe and the mistakes of NATO. And they don't make this easy speech about guns, because I think they're wrong, too. We want to defend ourselves and I think we need to defend ourselves from a power like Russia, that we already see what it's like to do with Ukraine. Therefore, we go very much to "so much. Talk about taxes. But I understand that you don't like taxes on banking and energy, do you? I don't know if it's you who have shares or... well, I'm sure I don't. And, therefore, I think it's important. Is it going to lower inflation? No, no, If I have already told you that the measures of President Sánchez will not lower inflation. It's just that there are no girls for this. They're girls to help families and businesses. With this tax on the bank we will collect 1,500_million euros that will be used to redistribute and help families and businesses. And this tax on energy, which will also collect resources, will be for the same. Do we like it? So yes. Because, listen, a little bit of justice and pay more for what they have and what they earn most. And the one winning the first quarter of the year 2022, 5,300_million euros among all, huh? It's an indecency. And it turns out that with this tax we'll be recapturing the whole year 1,500. Home, I don't think it's going to be enough to get rid of the clothes either. And I don't know what you're talking about, that I'm the inversion advocate, when you come here to say that this tax won't help inflation, it won't lower it, it won't solve anything. No, look, yeah, it'll help the families. Many million euros put in favour of policies for families and businesses. Therefore, welcome this tax. And, therefore, we are pleased that President Sánchez thinks of this redistributive policy and this progressive fiscal policy, which obviously does not defend you, as we have already seen this week's head of his political party, which would want to carry all taxes. They'll explain to me how we spend if we can't get in. Well, this is definitely another debate, but it's gonna be fine if we're here too. I, Counselor, have given him some thought, but I also asked him and he did not answer anything about what he intends to do, what measures we will take in Catalonia, girls for the Government of Catalonia, in relation to how to deal with the effects of the crisis on businesses and families. And like you still 2023 and that assumption you see. You know that we..., the PSC is a game that is willing to advance Catalonia and build it and be positive because the time will be very complicated – very complicated. And, therefore, as you do not have the majority of Parliament because the UPC left you in the first canton, so we have told you that if we talk, because it seems to me that it is important that the 2023 Government of the Generality..., Catalonia has a presupposition. Now, we'd like to know a little bit of lines for where you're going, if we actually go to save businesses and families or it's going to be on adventures like this one from Cedisa. Miri, I haven't even met with this French background or anything. What I'm saying is, public resources. And you, who didn't have 500 million, went to look for them department by department. He said: "I will not be relieved, from now on I do not know how many years, 800. Well, explain it to us—explain it to us. Come compare yourself to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and explain it to us with numbers, so that we don't have them, we'll go see them in their department, and we'll look at this freight forwarder for a while. Not for nothing, because as public resources, I want to know if they're being used well. It is very easy to do this headline... "Oh, many years; yes, but now it will cost us 500_million euros that we don't have and that would be very good to use in social policies, educational policies or health policies. That really, I'm listening, you have CAPs locked, consultants locked, pediatricians that don't give back to those CAPs that had this service before the pandemic, etc. So, man, you don't make me demagogic. Explain it to us well. To me, the fund of reversal, listen'm, it's the same. A company that's going to invest in that moment. And, listen to me, and you're not doing any prevarication, the grant says it's till that year, if it lasts until that year there's no prevarication. Don't make things up. Can you get it back in 2022? Yeah. But tell me how many benefits we have to pay now 500_million euros that we don't have and that you want to get out of some departments that I'd like to know who they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.242.0	In the replica turn has the word the advisor Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.243.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mrs Romero, we were, with all due respect to you and all the parliamentary cordiality that characterizes you and me. One day, you know where he already told me about his head of files and I already answered it with a video that's still running through YouTube and that I invite her to see it. But now that I'm back to saying it, I'll say it with all due respect that, man, it's a lot better to get out of the private world and devote yourself to the public service paying a lot less than going out of the public world and going private to a board of directors, like Mr. Felipe González did, and to say that you love yourself when you get 300,000 euros a year. [[Greetings.]] So, please – please – I say to him: "There is no more. Do you understand me? Why turn doors, huh? There are no two senses; all respectable, but each one knows what we give. And I know very well where I come from and I know very well what I do and I'm very proud to do it. Listen, so you don't have any interest in Cedinsa, I see it's coming back another time. No, no, listen, lobby pocket is pretty legitimate, huh? So I understand very well that you insist on this. But as soon as he insisted, he brought other things, but I'll explain it to him. Look, listen, the state government only allows us some money if it's to pay a debt. I'll explain, huh? They give us a share of the FLA that's to pay off a debt. The Generalitat de Catalunya, from the socialist councillor Joaquim Nadal, at a time that brought to the failed technique the Generalitat... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Castells and Mr. Nadal. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. So that's it, and that's it in all the charts. Listen to me, at that time it was necessary to make works with a toll in the shade. What we are asking for is EUR 482 million from a fund that has not been earmarked for sanitation, Mrs Romero – I would never need to get a euro of sanitation – it does not go to education, it does not go to concertation, it does not go to the public, it does not go to social rights. It's money that just leaves you, the Spanish State – Mrs. Montero, Mrs. Calvino – to pay another debt. It's not like I'm in a jailhouse and the counselor says, "Look, I'm going through... No, no, no, eh? Ask him. That's exactly what I'm saying. We asked for this because... and so it was, and listen, it wasn't easy, and they left us this money to pay, to advance some money, and to save us 70 or 80 million dollars every year until 2040. Listen, it's a free operation. And that's what happened, and I would do it again. Then you spoke again of whether Europe, what if Spain. Miri, Europe, inflation at this time is 8.5, and Spain is 10.2. I mean, listen to me, the situation is very dramatic all along, but there are some countries that are better than others. It's obvious, because, if not, listen, the sovereignty of the states would not exist. It is obvious that the measures you take and do not change the thing. And lastly, we don't joke about banks anymore, because if anyone... listen, I... if anyone here said that banks have made mistakes, I am. If anyone has asked to put boxes and to put offices where there are none, I am. So... listen, what did Vice President Calviño do? Gather these four benches that you have raised and say to them, "What do you want to do? What do you propose to do? And we set out, together with other groups, to this hemisphere, and with the support of the PSC, an initiative to change it. So, listen, we don't bring things from one song to another, And I think the measures will be announced, and the assumptions will be made when we have the resources that Mrs. Montero will announce to us at the end of July. Yeah, look, I know it's close to a colony, but here we go. She has to tell me how far I can spend, what is the margin of deficit and what is the liquidation of the 21st. When you know, Mrs. Romero, I'll be happy to explain it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.244.0	Let us move on to the point of order of the day, the question to the Government about the economic situation caused by the crisis. [[Question to the Government about the economic situation caused by the crisis]] [[300-00215/13]] It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos and, to make the presentation, by the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.245.0	Deputies, deputies, councillor, good late. Well, let's get back to the economic situation and the crisis generated by the war in Ukraine. A crisis that generates an impact on energy prices and fuels, and breaks the global chain of trade, and that impacts, unfortunately, directly on the world through inflation, and on its own economic activity through uncertainty. In this framework, the Government's response today is not high, especially when we compare it with other territories, whether it is the Valencian country, whether it is the islands, or with the measures that the central government has taken in these years, in fiscal matters, in transport aid, in better social protection and scholarships, which ultimately translates into direct aid to the world with major problems. In this context, too, the latest decree of urgent measures by the Government of the Generalitat has only allocated EUR 1 million to combat the effects of the war. Insufficient and no direct impact on people or economic activity. A decree approved thanks to the votes of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which, on the other hand, saved the Government from negotiating our proposals to supplement transport aid, to improve the guaranteed income of citizens or to establish an energetic good among others. Unfortunately, we are carrying this country, the citizenry, fifteen years of crisis. We have gone from outrage, during the financial crisis, to the demand for protection in the pandemic, and now to the uncertainty of the future before the war in Ukraine. While the Government either remains absent from the management of the response or fails to do so in favour of the interests of the economic powers. The result is impoverishment and loss of opportunity to improve material foundations for wealth creation. The latest Foessa report, exclusion and social development in Catalonia 2021, reports that Catalonia 2,260,000 people are in a situation of social exclusion. The 2021 survey of living conditions published by Idescat confirms this. The 25.9_percent of the population is in a situation of poverty and risk of social exclusion, and a new_percent of the population, more than 700,000 Catalans and Catalans, is in a situation of extreme poor material. We're worse than 2019. The pandemic has healed with more inequality and social deprivation. We were lucky with the measures implemented in the labour market; ERTO, minimum interprofessional wages, labor reforms, which have appeased the impacts. Unfortunately, however, the lack and weakness of public policies in Catalonia's own social protection, housing or provision of public services have left a lot of people, people backward and unprotected. In this situation of poverty and inequality, inflation impacts, above all, on the majority of the working, retired or unemployed population, which cannot impact price increases, and you see how you care for them, day after day, the shopping cyst. We carry more than nine months with inflation over the five-per-cent. By June, we've surpassed the deu_per_cent. The low rates are the most affected by the impact of energy, housing and food prices. The inflation differential is more than two points in the range of less than a thousand euros per month, and more than one point in the range of less than 2,500 euros per month, compared to the range of more than 3,500 euros per month, where inflation affects them to a lesser extent. Inequality also generates inflation. Some data are clear. The pa bar has gone from forty to eighty cents and a few days from now it can reach 1.20. Sunflower oil was 0.90 a liter, and it's 3.50. White-labeled olive oil has increased by more than 60_per_cent: the one you bought for less than four_euros, the one you are buying today at seven_euros. The eggs have pulled a twenty-two per cent; the margarine, a forty-two per cent, and the flesh of a thirty-two per cent. A kilo of macaroni has gone up almost fifty cents. A melo cost almost one euro more than a year ago; a melo of four kilos now costs four euros, and a year ago it did not reach three euros. The increase in energy prices has not been absorbed by companies. They have directly transferred the increase in energy prices to the product unit, impacting the city's purchasing capacity to increase its gain rate. The rate of profits of the companies transfer it to the city, the benefits push and lower them. Perhaps the Catalan Consum Agency could also do something to try to act on the abusive prices that are set by certain companies. We know that the high dependence of fossil fuels is impacting at the macro-economic level on the trade balance – we know – but above all on family yields, which see the price of energy and fuels rise more than 54.7 in a year. As this happens, climate emergence impacts on quality of life and the environment and makes unsurpassed structural changes and climate commitments. It is urgent to act on the energy and renewables model: mobility, sustainability, climate protection, circular economy, among other issues. The situation is worrying and demands government action, and the government must act without forgetting what we learned in the recent pandemic crisis. We live in an interdependent world and can guarantee spaces of strategic sovereignty. We saw it with the health protection teams, today it's obvious in the energy model. The depth of the challenges before us calls for cooperation and cooperation between institutions. The confrontation in the wing and the hold; the collaboration adds up. Public services are a guarantee of protection and equal treatment. The public sector has to be a tractor of the economy, and structural changes to face the climate and digital challenge, to gain strategic sovereignty and ensure fair transitions, cannot wait. That's what we learn from the pandemic. We have to put this into practice now and the government has to put it into practice. Today we are in a different context than defined in the assumptions of 2022. In order to reactivate the economy, it is true, yes, but protecting the citizenry, the productive capacity installed and leading structural changes. So that we adapt the 2022 assumption to the reality that we are living and already put on the table the strategy for the 2023 assumption. The implementation of the 2022 premise, at the moment, is positive in some departments, but in others I think we will still have to worry. We have six months, six months in which we have to prove that there is not one euro left in the country and that they are people of the word. By April, thirty-two per cent of the presupposition had been executed – let's not go badly – and by June they have already appeared, according to the advice of the council, tickets of 940_million against a cost increase of 140. In other words, we have around 800_million euros available in non-presumptive terms, for better fiscal behaviour, also derived from own inflation. We therefore have scope for measures to complement the policies approved for the State and to make them their own. We need to guarantee the free transport of road haulage and medium distance and we can reduce metropolity transport rates to 50 %. We can and must update the guaranteed income of citizens to absorb the impact of inflation on those most needy families. We need to enable an energy boom at home with revenues of less than 25,000 euros per year. They can do measurements. We have these more than 800_million available. We need to provide more resources for sanitation, increasing seedlings and strengthening primary care, improving services for dependency care. Providing the education system, very tense during the pandemic, with more resources, which also allow a negotiated exit to the conflict that they are living, complementing the approved motion the Ple past, recovering the teaching working day that was unilaterally modified by previous governments. We have 800_million euros. What can we do? A lot of things. We cannot leave resources to the calaix nor can we dedicate them to reducing the deficit or to draining the deficit. We have a €800_million increase that could compromise public policies to protect and activate the economy. There can be no euro that does not reach the needy and push the necessary changes. In short, the crisis generated by the war in Ukraine is having a negative impact on the world, especially those that have fewer tickets, and it is generating a lot of uncertainty about the economic future. We need the government to act, and to act in a clear and committed manner, protecting people, especially the most vulnerable, with direct aid, better benefits, reduced public transport, and also activating strategic measures of positive economic impact, especially in all those with renewable energies, with sustainability and social and territorial equity. We take advantage of six months of presuppositional execution of 2022 to adapt its application to the real needs of Catalonian society and citizens, and then we will talk about the presupposition of 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.246.0	The word has the advisor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.247.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Gallego, I have just answered Mrs Romero's question about how to deal with the economic situation that we are going through. As I must have listened, I have put in some formulas that I consider necessary to fight against inflation. One thing is the measures to fight against inflation and another is the measures to fight against the effects of inflation. It's different things and it's okay to distinguish them. You demand a broad look at me and ask me for concrete strategies that we can put in the way to deal with this economic, social and energy crisis resulting from the war in Ukraine. I can hardly tell you, Mr. Gallego, that, dissociatingly, our margin of manoeuvre to directly combat inflation is almost non-existent. But this doesn't mean we can do an analysis of the situation and set some measures, even though we don't have all the skills to implement them. The economic situation is extraordinarily complex and that makes everyone – everyone around the world – use the same word to describe the time we have before; this word is uncertain. No one knows what's going to happen. The war in Ukraine feels the determining factor in the rise of prices. It's not that some sector earns more money than another, like it tried before it twisted some of my words; it's not that. If there is one sector that earns more money than it has to earn, it is for another reason, because there is an oligopoly in the electrical and banking sector, and there are too few entities in some sectors like these, but it is not the cause of inflation. Before the war, fuel prices, raw materials and food had already begun to rise. With the war between Russia and Ukraine, these economic tensions have become even stronger, and while we are witnessing the formation of this perfect storm, the economy – and especially the Catalan economy – is now getting pretty good. In the first quarter, our GDP is going to be 6.4_percent higher than the first quarter of 21. On the other hand, entrepreneurs remain confident in the future. The business climate in Catalonia is better today than three months ago, it is becoming more busy than ever, social security affiliations are increasing by 4.2_per_cent annually, and the reversal of equipment-enabled enterprises is growing at a rate of 12.4 – 12.4 also– annually. For what it does to the effects on the most vulnerable people, which you have also made reference to, it must be acknowledged that it has increased the rate of people with severe material and social deprivation to a new percentage. But we must also say, Mr Gallego, that, according to the latest data available from the 21st, average income has only decreased by 0.1_per_cent, and that the poverty risk rate has fallen by almost two_per_cent. Mainly – I have to say this – thanks to the extraordinary transfers of funds, which allowed us social benefits and which we do not have, and therefore the margin of deficit we did not exhaust. Things as they are. If we add to all this the favourable prospects of this is for a strategic sector for Catalonia, such as tourism, and that we also take into account exports, which are growing to a twenty-i-set_per_cent– bigger than anymore, twenty-i-set_per_cent–, then I think we could think that we have good foundations to face the future– we could think about that. But it's not like that, or at least not at all. I'm not saying we don't have a good foundation, what I'm saying is we can't be sure they're strong enough to face what's coming. We do not know exactly what will happen; we do not know whether the war will last very long or will last very little. I insist on measuring my words so that no one thinks I'm saying things I don't say, but it's obvious that if the war goes on, the problems will get worse, and so we should all be focused on the war not going on. On the other hand, we do not know whether the Xina, with its severe measures of restriction of all the mobility and of the transport of goods for a zero tank, which is its objective, if it does not return to the production rate the Xina, this will also make the price of oil and the logistic cols of ampoules easier for all the industries of the country. And what's he doing? Push the priests. When an industry doesn't know for sure if they're carrying the materials for the month, it carries more stock. That before there was no stock, before it was practically just on time. Now people try to load everything they can to place their first materials before this uncertainty. Therefore, we do not know what will happen to the Xina, which is an element – the Xina and Russia – that normally in some places in Madrid, Spain and Europe, is now undervalued. Nor do we know if tomorrow – you said tomorrow –, once the theoretic maintenance tasks are finished, Russia will open up the entire North Stream 1 gas pipeline that brings gas to Europe. We don't know if it will open, and it will open at cent_per_cent. Therefore, this ignorance of ours is like a scallop; a scallop that does not escape as the days pass, but is thicker. And that also means that the monetary instruments available here in Europe, at the European Central Bank, may not be as effective as you might think. It is possible to give the worst possible scene: a European central bank that cools demand, cools the economy, with pressures of type and an offer that continues to be tense, with high prices and dear energies. You think that in this thick boulevard that I was talking to you, you could put the monster with whom no one ever wants to find, and no one's saying, that it's the stifling monster. Against this backdrop, the Government of the Generality, unfortunately, can do little. We do not have instruments, nor do we have resources, nor can we trust that the Spanish State trusts in our capabilities and gives us capabilities, prerogatives to design specific policies. Therefore, the little we can do is put us on the move with the two packages of measures that we approved during the months of April and May, and we have to hope that the European Union will do everything it needs to do. Miri, unlike oil, which is expendable – oil is expendable – gas goes through gas pipelines point by point, and this means that a barrel of oil produced in Russia – a barrel of oil in Russia – is dissolved with the 90-million-barrel tide that is produced every day. Every day it produces 90 million barrels in the world. Therefore, even though oil represents the deu_per_cent of GDP in Russia, the Western embargo, the embargo that some European statesmen believe is doing wrong in Russia, it is harmless to Russia – harmless – it does not hurt, because it has followed its oil without complications. With gas, in change, another thing happens: from gas it is Europe that deposes, and Europe deposes from Russian gas, and this fuel represents only two_percent of Russia, two_percent of GDP. So, when the case came up, Russia could use the pipeline shaft as a pressure instrument for Europe, but not the other way around. You see, Mr Gallego, that we are at a time of great uncertainty and that when Germany sneezes, which is the most dependent on oil and Russian gas, all of Europe is cool. Imagine what can happen if this winter, this long winter, Alemanya takes a lung. We, as you say, have a tool that is the assumptions and that, if we have time, in the turn we can talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.248.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.249.0	Well, thank you. You've missed me a little, Counselor, because now I don't know exactly where we are, whether we're with Russia or we're not with Russia. I don't know who to look after, whether you or Councilwoman Alzina, but well, in principle, no problem. It's true, we're impatient with uncertainty. And in uncertainty, institutions, the government, the public sector has to lead, it has to give security, protections. It has to lead the changes and it has to accompany society, people and, obviously, economic activity. Therefore, I believe that in these moments, before this situation, what we have to do is begin to put a thread to the needle and to the negotiation of the assumptions of 2023. In Comú we negotiated the assumptions of 2022 to correct and with eager construction. By 2023, the citizenry needs that we also have expanded assumptions, aimed at overcoming shortcomings and protecting, precisely, before the uncertainties. Today we have said, Mrs Albiach said this morning, in Comú We can be willing to negotiate them with the same attitude as we did on the 22nd, but making clear the conditions of entry: to complete the agreement; to negotiate from the beginning of the process, not at Masses; to guarantee the expansion of the accounts; to maintain the fiscal commitments – all of them –, the ones of 2020 that allowed us to have this year of more than 1,000_million euros to make public policies in this country. We're not going to negotiate a sub-low under these assumptions. We want to define priorities, protect people, promote economic and digital transitions and promote social and territorial equity. For this reason, we propose that we agree on the axes to be set up in the 2023 premise. Fair and progressive taxation. It's not time to lower taxes, it's time to recuperate more. There's room to do it. Who else wins and who else has, who pays more to redistribute with more social justice. It is a country that responds to the health of the proximity and in an integral way for what it does to the portfolio of services and reinforcing primary care, with a change of model in the attention to dependence and with a more inclusive, more quality and innovative educational model. It's about protecting and avoiding exclusion. Make the guaranteed income of citizens a tool for real inclusion, also updating the return indicator of sufficiency, the indicator that determines access to real benefits, to the real purchasing capacity of the population, thus avoiding social exclusion. We need a new energy model, less dependent, based on renewables and energy decentralisation, that drives a just, sustainable and innovative industrial model change in the medium and long term. We need investments to make a country fair, equitable and sustainable, sustainable mobility, security mechanisms and emergence that protect territories and people. We need a closer administration, which guarantees swift and transparent processing, which is shielded from corruption and corruption, which expels friendship and clientelism. There's room to negotiate some good assumptions by 2023, but there's room and there's no excuse. We can't hide what we're gonna do with what we don't have. We need to negotiate what we can do with what we have. If the resources are scarce and the needs are growing, the necessary is to build the premise of the pact and the agreement, from the conviction that we have room for entry, with a fairer taxation and the ability to improve its management and to improve its application of expenditure to the needs of the social majority. I believe that we are ahead of a situation of great uncertainty that has a very negative impact on people, on families, on the world and also on economic activity. Faced with this situation, we have no choice but to negotiate voluntarily to respond to the social and economic needs of the country. We will put all the effort into it, but obviously we need a government that really believes and is committed to negotiation. I let him macabrate with a poem, certainly. But a moment that I don't... I'm saying because we've clearly defined that we're in a situation of uncertainty and here we've shared the diagnosis. That's why I took a poem from Maria Àngels Vila Safont, who says "When uncertain hours come back, you'll have to cough at the door." / I, eyes, do the disengagement/ while in support of the fold/ hours that weigh, without rush, / that accommodate me silences. / Hide as I can the gesture: / not at all, although it is in vain. // When uncertain hours return, / I will be distressed. / Maldo to rid me of the evil, / but the evil is real. / And in flagell·lo: I am awake/ and I don't want to believe myself yet. / The more you call the sound/ the illusion goes longer. // When uncertain hours return/ ferocious to the soul. / I'm talking about a truth/ that I don't understand and that I like, / that it's not mine or yours: / they're certain vermin. / But why make room for the plan/ when we water this horror? / I'm going to follow my straight/ steady, always hoping... In the face of uncertainty, what we can't do is not do anything. In the face of uncertainty, what we have to do is lead, lead public policies in the service of the citizenry, and especially the citizenry that the worst is going through. In the face of uncertainty, we don't install ourselves in the plan and get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.250.0	And finally, at the turn of the line has the word the counselor turned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.251.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Gallego, you have already seen the indulgence of the president when it comes to poetry, who did not dare to cut it and let it end; indulgence that we celebrate, because it really deserved the penalty, the poetry. And he was talking about what I gave him, the uncertainty, wasn't he? The word that everyone has in their mouths today. With my first answer, I say that the margin of manoeuvre we have for the government to fight against the effects of inflation is almost non-existent, but something can be done. You have agreed on the assumptions with us, and we know perfectly well how far we are now bound by the economic situation we have described. The cold of winter that awaits us can be raw, and from the coming year it will be, and the effects – I don't want to stretch out – will be difficult to manage. And here, Mr. Gallego, we do have some opportunity to do things for the country. The first, and certainly the most important – the first, and certainly the most important – is not to deprive Catalonia of the most powerful political tool available to a government, which is the assumption. We should not allow ourselves to extend accounts that are made in a completely different context and with a horizon that has nothing to do with this one. It would be irresponsible on the part of everyone – from this councillor, from the government's side, but also from the group of parliamentary groups in this Parliament – if we do not work seriously to get some assumptions approved in September. We will need to have an instrument that allows us to delve deeper into some structural measures and prepare ourselves and prepare those that should be served, which are the citizens, for an economic situation full of difficulties. And we'll still have to do something else, Mr. Gallego, and maybe you don't like this one so much, but I have to say it. You don't have to see the assumptions; you have to see the degree, with another degree. I gave him my vision of the conflict and Russia, which may or may not coincide with that of other advisors. Now I'm talking about another kind of diplomacy: we'll have to convince both the PSOE and the United We can't take away a yield pact, and I know that in some areas it's uncomfortable, but it's reality. I guess I can't trust your support on this, but the same way I hold them to your responsibilities, I hold them to myself, and I always try to say things the way I see them. If we want inflation not to be out of control, two things will have to be monitored – this is a return pact; let's macabar, Mr. Cid –: it will have to be watched that the increase in wages is reasonable and that it does not generate a spiral effect, and therefore, content for this band. And at the other extreme, and at the same time, it will have to be watched that companies also make a containment effort at the prices of their products and that they absorb a share of the cost of inflation. And that they absorb. This—this—is what the surrender pact is called. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm done. I'm going back to the assumptions. In any case, Mr Gallego, I want you to know that I hope, both from your group and from the rest of Parliament's political groups, that you will work together to draft good assumptions, and that you will do so with responsibility and willingness to serve the general interest of the country. I don't know, Mr Gallego, if it's necessary, as we're going to do last year, that you and I are going to be discreetly locked in a hotel in Via Laietana to settle some accounts – I don't know –; or maybe we'll have to get back to what we still have going on and going to Cuba one day. [[relays]] , and seal a new deal there. You see I'm willing, if I fall, to even play in the opposite field. Certainly, I would like to say to you that, as you know, a few days ago I brought to the approval of the Government the payment to the hospital cleaning staff, which will be implemented this late. Therefore, assumptions, yes, are very necessary. And to all the groups in this Parliament with whom I have already met, I hope that we can come to some agreement with some of the groups that are here and that we can really do what the citizens are waiting for, that is to take the steps that fall to face the 23rd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.252.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the paralysis of the first political course of the 14th parliamentary term]] [[300-00210/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the paralysis of the first political course of the fourteenth legislature, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.253.0	Well, thank you. Counselor, I hope the trip to Cuba went well. We finish a political course, counselor, and we make this inquiry to assess how the course went. But to begin with, I'd like to look at an X-ray of how we have the country. As we have the country, let's look at four news stories. Month of May, El Punt Avui: « Metges de Catalunya denounces that the primary school is devastated and without reinforcement in sight. Family doctors report that work overload increases the stigma of proximity medicine. Month of June, Betevé : « Data on denunciations: Catalonia leads the rationing of denunciations to the State during the first quarter of the year 2022. From generation to march there were 2,410 launches, a 21.8_percent of the total denunciations of the state conjunction, one every fifty-five minutes. More than July, Diari Ara : « Letter of three hundred directors to Councillor Cambray. There is a real risk that the public education system is col·lapsing. And last week at Nació Digital: "The IPC remembers and leaves the highest inflation in the last forty years. The indicator up to 10,2_per_cent for fuel and food loading and marks the highest xifra since April 1985. This is the country we have in July 2022. But the legislature began with the crisis context of the covid as well as the sea of foundations, it seemed that from that crisis we extracted some shared conclusions, such as the priority importance of public health and the need to put primary care at the center of the system. It's more than just reality. A global crisis that leaves some data of mortality and a precariousness of the living conditions of the working people who will come to take more strength with the crisis of the priests we already have on, which impoverishes the majority while a small privileged and protected minority negotiates with sanitation, basic sub-administrations, housing, food. This legislature was also beginning to paralyse the self-determination process, the result of repression and the inability to exit the state's imposition mark, with a central government without any intention of facing the democratic conflict of foundations, which has only entered the dialog as a formula for obtaining the parliamentary support of the Republican Left at the Congress. Empty dialog, no contents, no calendar. A clear proposal, however, that, despite everything, the simple proclamation to the dialect, even though it was empty, served it not only to get support to the Congress of Deputies for investments and assumptions, but also to refer to a climate of normality between institutions and councils. Point: advice from both Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia, who have allowed to try to push the agenda of the reunion, which is the agenda..., it is still, the agenda of the reunion, the agenda of the Promotion of the Work and the State: expansion of the airport, Olympic Games, runners like the Fourth Belt, or macroprojects and monoculture of tourism. Always close to a repression that does not cease, with a "Catalangate without consequences and investments in trains, infrastructures and services that never run. And it is that you yourselves have liquidated any incentive of the State to negotiate politically the outcome of the conflict, and have placed as only a point of argument and partial judicialization that, I do not want to say, not even above. In this legislature the country needed, and it will still need more revolutions. But real revolutions, not symbolic or declaratory. The country needed, for example, first the revolution to democratize the right to housing, to deal with all possible means of denunciation, to effectively regulate the logger, to pull back the facets and the benches a right that has literally stolen from us, such as the right to housing. As I said, in Catalonia, a denunciation every fifty-five minutes. But also, for example – the second revolution – revolution to confront the Mafio oligopolis that controls electricity, putting all efforts to recover hydroelectric power plants and, above all, to boost public energy. In short, to gain land in the oligopolis and begin to make way for the nationalization of the strategic sectors. Public energy is a first stone, but an essential stone to boost green energy and also fair energy for everyone; in short, to defend a basic right. Third revolution: this country and the planet also need a green revolution, but a deep ecological revolution. You dry each time more severe; increase in temperatures; the country literally falls. And while the food and fossil fuel collapses up, what does the government do? A coven to see who advises makes the most unsustainable proposal to attract tourists and continue in this circle quick and easy money vices for investors at the expense of precarious, temporary and poorly paid work for the majority. Show these macro-projects, advise, park the macro-projects and recover the agriculture and extensive branching. We're doing a deep land reform. We protect and push the small and medium page. We plan agricultural production to advance towards the essential food sovereignty. Let's leave the slogans and push products like the skirt and the filley, as well as the industry for its transformation. We look at the agro-food macro-industry that speculates on land and basic products. And it's that a fourth revolution, since you were talking about four revolutions..., this country needs a revolution against precariousness and the poor. The eleven per cent of Catalan workers are poor, while the lllars grow without entrances. If we don't increase the numbers, we need to reduce the numbers if we don't increase the number of workers with purchasing skills, the number of workers who have a minimum to live with. In short, it is necessary to reduce the data if poor workers increase. From these revolutions that the country needs, the president more or less flagged it in his investiture ple. We understand that it is they who share, share, that this country does not want people who are left on the margins of society; that we understand that they share that the people of this country do not want more denominations to shield the interests of banks and moneys; that the people are tired of suffering to arrive at the end of the month because they have to pay unorbited loggers and mortgages and bills of light, water and gas that end up reverting to pornographic benefits of electricity. And, for all this, we are aware that all these revolutions were linked to a contest mark of the sovereignty of the country with the State and of interest with the employer and the IBEX 35. And you have chosen these last ones as allies: State, employer and IBEX 35. Because for a while we said: "The world is watching us. And we say: "So, yes, the right one looks at us. And when we say that you have parked the independenceist and sovereignist agenda, we say precisely this: that you have preferred to make yourselves homologable to Pedro Sánchez, the European Union, the Promotion of Work or the Czech Republic, than to deploy a social and economic agenda of defence of the rights of the working people of the country. They have thus replaced the independent and sovereignist agenda with the back-to-back agenda; the back-to-back with the past, the back-to-back with the past that we seemed to have buried with the "greyest and life-long socio-vergency with the hope of returning to the catal oasis. This government had the challenge of beginning to draw the political and social changes that are driving and causing the struggle for self-determination and independence. The path to independence is a way of struggle to strengthen public services, to protect and guarantee people's rights and living conditions, and this is driving public banking, energy or pharmaceuticals, defending the interests of the popular classes in front of oligopolis and the great capital, the European Union or the bellicose mafia of NATO. We wanted to see the government fighting as hard as it fought for the Olympic Games to boost universal basic income, to deprivatize 061 or to boost public energy. And no, we haven't seen it. We wanted to see the government who spent months designing the law from the castle to the school to break into the head to find the effective way to regulate the loguers or stop naming families. If this government intended the same efforts to guarantee the right to housing that those who intended to suppress the movements that the defense put up with denunciations, now even the anti-denomination law would apply. Because if we have disobeyed the Constitutional Court to defend Lluís Puig's vote, given what we are not proud of and proud of, will we not do so to prevent vulnerable families from denouncing? Last June, Sanchez Llibre, president of the Catalan employer, asked the government for three things: Olympic Games, expansion of the airport and return to normality. He had enough to ask for it in an act because the government, the councils or some of the councils, the impulses as if there were no tomorrow. I will leave it here now, after you intervene, try to make proposals and put proposals on the table for the new course, in view of the revolution we believe that there must be a proper political course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.254.0	The word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.255.0	Well, thank you, President. Congresswoman Regunant, well, once more I push this Farist to the back and balance a year of this first government, of the first class, of the first year of political course of this legislature. In any case, the first year of this republican government. But this time, Congresswoman, I can't buy you this idea that you're paralysing. I won't deny that the adventures aren't as fast as we want – they're slower – and that the administration's operation and day-to-day interbanks don't help. Also, for another gang, the repression that we all live – you too – forces us sometimes to resist and in these cases, therefore, to do more to survive. But in any case, I also give you the reason why some great powers do not want no change or fly, tell us, changes that is not not note. In this sense, we are completely compromised by the transformation that we were going to explain, that we were going to announce and that we would express whenever we could, therefore, go where we were going. In this sense, let's say that we don't represent them when we "go slow because we go far; we want to go far and we want to go fast, quickly. Because we're real, but now we've got a horizon that makes us go all the way. In this sense, I also want to say that we would move together faster, but that in any case we are not stopped or good enough. We have two important references, and for what it does to management..., after we talk about other more political elements, but for what it does to management, for a band, obviously, the assumptions are obvious that we were going to try to agree them with its parliamentary group, but it was not possible. But in any case, the will to continue working there is and, therefore, I also leave it on the table. For another band, the plan of government; a plan of government that, as you know, drinks of different horizons, of different accords between different political actors. But, obviously, it also sees the priorities of each councillor, of each person who leads it, also of the electoral programs, citizen requests, but above all of the commitments adopted in this Parliament and of the agreements of governability. And, obviously, between these agreements, what we were going to sign between the Republican Left and its parliamentary group. The plan of government is a transparent contract that makes it easy for us to say to ourselves, and therefore the compromise that we were going to adopt with the citizenry. In this sense, without ill-intentioned headlines or misdiagnoses, we have sunk a 33.9, so I'm almost thirty-four percent of what we were going to compromise. More than a third in a four-year term. I therefore believe that these figures can speak of a little paralysis and, in change, they are concrete facts, they are actions that exemplify this transformation agenda. And we do it with measures, thinking of the citizenry and thinking of the territory. And I also want to make it very clear. When we talk about the democratic agenda..., and this is one of the commitments..., almost the first points we dealt with with you; they were, therefore, questions relating to protocols of performance, especially of the Department of Interior. And, in this sense, I want to highlight the good and hard work that Councilman Elena has done in this sense. For example, in the feminization of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, both in the direction as in the whole scale; but also, for another band, and very important, everything we wanted to achieve to incorporate the Central Judicial Cabinet into the Department of the Presidency for what it does to the defense of the agents. This change responded to a willingness to continue defending the Squadmills from the point of view of determination and clarity, as we do with the other public officials, with the other employees and employees of the Administration. Therefore, this change has given us coherence in the defense of the public servants of the Generality, for the unification of criteria, and we follow, therefore, defending our workers. Also in the criteria... in the accusations, in the characters of the own Generality. We believe that we now have some characters, some more just and more upright accusations, in the sense that the administration's lawyers only in case there are credible injuries, so we'll do the corresponding character on the part of the Generality. And other commitments: protocol changes in the use of foam pilots. So, I think, Congresswoman, that all of these questions make that today we don't talk about paralysis, but on the contrary. Speaking of other things: you talk about renewables, and often say we're not going too fast. But you know perfectly well that we came, therefore, from a stage of an important standstill for many years, but, in change, it finally generated an obvious speculative cylinder that we had to stop. And, despite that, the climate emergence prevented us from stopping even for a moment. So what we wanted to do was change the renewable energy law. It was the first step in laying the foundations for a new energy model, not only by changing the energy resources from fossils to renewables, but by turning proposals down to meet the decarbonization objectives of Catalonia. In this sense, we wanted to bring here to Parliament different validations of amendments of decree that the idea was to achieve a distributed, decentralized and transformative energy model of the economy and society. Therefore, a more democratic, participatory and territorially cohesive energy model. And as I have explained to you later, Councilwoman Jordan..., as she has explained to you herself, the figures support these advances, since at these times there is an acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies. To give some data: during the month of June we have totaled one hundred and fifty megawatts more of renewables projects to public information. This means that we now have 1,450 megawatts of public information; this June we have definitively authorized three more projects, which in the sum of fifteen more – so, fifteen more are about to be built – and also on July 1 the authorization of a 14.5 megawatt photovoltaic park was published. What does that mean? So in this beginning of July we've done as much as all of June. Therefore, we are taking a firm step towards this green transformation, towards an energy model based on renewable energies and to achieve this climate neutrality. And you were talking about energy. And, indeed, we agree that public energy is important. And that's why the team is working, intensifying efforts to see the light properly. So here we will have immediate results and we can explain them. Therefore, it also emerges in energy themes, effectively, to avoid dependence, to avoid price inflation. These last few days, too, we're talking a lot about forest management, and how we've multiplied the resources we've spent on it. And, of course, we must allocate much more resources. And that is why we intend to allocate €72 million from now until the year 2024. So, a very important sifra. For another band – and I also like to highlight it – we have seized the kingdoms and the willingness to bring forward from the Presidency Department a project that seems to us to be transformative, very transformative from the social point of view, which is this pilot's office for universal basic income. This government understands basic income not only as a tool to combat existing economic and social inequalities, which obviously are and we have to fight them, but also because of the situations we live in, which I cannot repeat, because today, this late, there has been a lot of talk about. It is not only because of this issue, because of economic and social inequalities, that it is also from a republican perspective: basic income as a right of citizenship, a right that guarantees its existence and guarantees the existence of citizens and citizens, therefore, more free, a real freedom. In this sense, we think that we are looking at it well, because, in fact, as some authors have pointed out, the introduction of this basic income, as we understand it, is a starting point for the construction of a democratic republic that deserves, indeed, that name. This compromise is, it was made with the creation of this office that is already working with all its, let's say..., completely. And this pilot plan is generating more interest beyond the Catalan countries for its dimensions and for its character, because we will talk about five hundred people who will participate, who will make up a quantity of money... I'm sorry, five thousand – I said five hundred, I've made a mistake, I'm sorry, I've left a zero – in an individual, universal and unconditional way. Catalonia demonstrates, therefore, its ability to innovate in these social aspects, and, indeed, to make an effectively redistributive and just state. This pilot's office, in fact, as I said, is moving forward at a good rate, and I am pleased to announce that at a later date we hope to present the definite design of this pilot's plan. I'm sure it'll be a long time ago and a long time ago for our country. So, on this issue – I think we fully agree on its importance – when we pray, you and we move forward faster. And so, in this sense, I think it's a good way to help the country and help the most vulnerable people, because we're closer to what you think, or at least I see it that way... because we've been pleased to find ourselves not only in the investiture of President Aragonès, but also in the assumptions or in the defense of the català, which, as has been seen most recently, was articulated with a law and a decree that they had their results. Therefore, I would say to him: "He is not confounded with adversaries, because despite all the evils, which are there, his adversaries are not in this corner of the chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.256.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.257.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, Counselor. We don't share the diagnosis, do we? The speech... there's been a lot of talk about four revolutions. I've taken a look at the four revolutions and how we understand them, but we don't share how the government has developed them. And it is that, if there has been a revolution this past political course, it is the one of the masters defending the interests of the collective – and it is by chance that the councillor has arrived, I did not have it predicted, but... –: thirty days of mobilizations between waves and great demonstrations to defend the public school, and we are still looking to negotiate seriously further on some promotional videos that were loaded with cynicism. As I said, the only revolution we have seen during this year is that of the masters defending these collective interests of all, because the public school is to defend the collective interests of all, leading the most important revolt against the teaching policies of the past forty years. In fact, Councilman Cambray had long since not to be seated at the government table. And if it goes on, it's for this three-way deal that they end up with the Socialist Party, which always at the last hour – because it always does at the last hour – that's saving it. So, yes, he is here because no one has failed him here in Parliament, because the educational community has failed him on many occasions. Therefore, neither the rest we have made of the four revolutions nor the only revolution that has existed in this course..., all that we have described has nothing to do with the speech and the march of the investiture made by the President of Aragon – for us, nothing. You have walked in the direction of the countenance to the direction we were marching a year ago, and we marked it folded, to make a left turn and advance towards self-determination. But the most troubling is not that you have been in the opposite direction, but the most troubling is what this represents. And it is that it represents that there is no answer or that it governs from scales to these people who are denouncing our country, the needy of the country; that it is governed without a proper agenda, and it has forced to avoid at all times the political conflict, done that, in itself, cancels any possible negotiation mark or advent or dialog. Avoiding the conflict cancels an advent in a negotiation, and this the world of trade unionism has it clear; well, except if there is the counselor, because neither the conflict serves to negotiate. But beyond the certain pessimism that we can learn from our words, for us there is a time of revolution. It's a time of revolution, and we give it with hope. And let's hope that we don't have more reason to deal with the uncertainties that come and the crisis that comes, because, in the face of a galloping crisis that we have, right? , which we live and see as every day is more present in our day-to-day, what we have is a secret government for this agenda of the "pilot we have repeated infinitely over and over again, which is the Ryder Golf Cup, the Winter Olympics, the Hard Rock Casino, the Prat's enlargement, the American Sailing Cup... But, meanwhile, education or sanitation and the right to a decent habitat were daunting. And he gave them to the inician: a denunciation every fifty-five minutes; the sanitarium..., the health personnel, who say they lack personal; workers who, despite diminishing the ciphers of the day, each time are poorer. This is the desolating panorama we have. And this is the panorama to which those revolutions which they announced in the beginning of the investiture should respond, but which have remained in and which have remained secret for the agenda of the reunion and the agenda of the employer. September will be complicated and warm. And we don't say it, he says it all over the world. It is time for the government to focus on these four revolutions, and, if not, it will be the street and people who will put the focus and the center of these four revolutions, because, as we say, the conflict ends up being the best way to move forward, to reach agreements and to negotiate. And people will eventually get tired of not seeing their most basic needs answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.258.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.259.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, the truth is, in this case, I think that, as my friend would say, so much is saying as not saying, because so much is what I say, because you repeat your mantras, your hits, and they repeat them as dogmas of faith. And I think, humbly, politics, and more at this moment that we live, so complex, because until here we agree, complex, fragile, changing, not linear, is disruptive..., we have to go to dogmas, we have to listen to everyone, we have to build shared projects. And, for example, in one of the themes I have directly referred to Pirinaeus, with the vice president, with the strategy Pirinius 2030, but let's say, especially in the question of a possible Olympic Games candidacy, let's say that what we've done, just what we've done, or what we've done most, let's say, is listen to the Pirinius. And we did it bilaterally, talking to absolutely everyone, even the most refractory people in relation to the candidacy, in territorial representation tables of all political parties – and I still believe that with some member of your group. And, in any case, everyone has said that you see it positively, in this sense, the candidacy; they even foresee the citizen consultation, giving it a binding value. Therefore, we have always said "no to speculation, "not to mismatch the territory, and, in change, "yes to sport, "yes to economic diversification, "yes to opportunities. I've said it all the time. And, besides, it seems to us that the most democratic is that, on a subject like this, then, it is the Pirinaeus that decides. And, unfortunately, I don't think that's what we're looking at, either, because what's true is that the governance agreement that we're going to agree on doesn't, let's just say, take the Olympic Games project out of the equation, what's said is that we're going to do a consultation, and that's what we're going to do when there's an application. Therefore, in this sense, and speaking of other questions that you have pointed out, leave four approaches to education. For starters, we've put in more resources. And it's obvious that we've put more resources in there to attend to diversity, to attend to complicated social situations, with I2 funding. But also – and I like to explain it – in the rural schools of Bressol – today the councillor is told – these schools that will strengthen, therefore, the education of children, of the smallest school, but that will also help to save many schools, sure. And, linked to rural schools, let me tell you..., and we do it from the Presidency..., push the state of rural municipalities, which we are already working with a working group with municipalist assemblies and associations. And what will allow is to review many regulations, because we can't treat what's different the same way. And, therefore, in this sense, so...... have this consideration for the municipalities most few people, but, in change, certainly with a lot of territory and with a lot of activity. In education, we also talk about reducing ration rates to better serve diversity. But there could be many more examples of education for the counselor than I have here; we don't have to talk about it anymore. We'll talk about more generic issues. If we look at the plan of government, we see that we have implemented seventy-nine measures in which we are going to compromise with your parliamentary group. In this sense, more than fifty per cent depend on assumptions. Although we do not approve them with you, we have followed them, these measures; concretely, the eighty-five_per_cent, let's say, to some extent they are being executed. We wanted to make an interesting programmatic agreement, I would say that it was important, because it talked about deploying a social rescue plan and guaranteeing rights and social cohesion. And in this sense, we have taken a lot of steps in this area. In housing or health policies – you have not spoken much – we have already developed, in each of these two very important questions, measures. We spend more money on it than ever before, on housing. Obviously, it needs a lot of effort, a lot of dedication, but we're doing it, and they're getting the results. In public order, there were also important changes, eight measures. In the impulse of public strategic sectors or the promotion of employment to industry and co-operativeism, we have already implemented seven measures. We've also talked about basic income, about the ecological transition; I won't do it any more... let's just say, more extensive, because I've already commented on it. But also in matters of municipalism and innovation, which also correspond to the Presidency, we have advanced with four measures. Work worthy for everyone, too, in this sense, two measures. So, we're completing what we said we'd do. But, obviously, transforming is not easy. You say so. On one occasion they said: "The government does not make transformative policies. The Government manages as if it were a Generality management. Miri, that's why the government doesn't make transformative policies either could tell it of some of its municipal governments, some of which we jointly govern; so... I don't say it with writing or with toilet; I say it with understanding, knowing that transformative measures cost a lot. But I also tell him that if we do folds, and in some assemblies we do folds, Republican Left, in this case, with the UPC, so I'm sure we'll get out faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.260.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the use of languages at school, which the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presented. [[Asking the Government about the use of language at school]] [[300-00208/13]] And it has the word, to expose it, the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.261.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray... Well, Councillor, nothing I am going to say to you today is going to get you on your mind, it is going to be particularly novel to you, but it does not seem unnecessary to me to keep repeating it to you. Nor do you have to say that what you are going to answer to me is also the most predictable. Let's talk about the use of the different languages of Catalans in the schools of our community. And, in this respect, then, obviously, you will answer me with the usual arguments, with which immersion is not touched, with which social cohesion depends on all subjects being done in Spanish..., in short, with the long cut of mantras that you usually make, by the way, very far away from a public debate that is minimally open, minimally porous, minimally biased. And, in this regard, let me tell you that today I am going to do an exceptional thing. I don't usually read my speeches in plenary; in fact, I always talk to my colleague Matías Alonso, that he is a real phenomenon in perorar without paper, but also in doing what stuck to paper, and he does it with real mastery. But today, the truth, preparing the intervention, I have been looking at some of the historical examples of authors, of intellectuals, who have theorized on the question of language in Catalonia, on immersion, in short. And, in this regard, I must say, from modesty, that the signatories of the founding manifesto of Citizens, both Arcadi Espada and Xavier Pericay, as well as Ferran Toutain, as Francesc de Carreras, as Albert Boadella, as Felix Ovejero, have, in my opinion, really been the vanguard of that defense of individual rights, of fundamental rights, of public freedoms in Catalonia. And, in this regard, I will make an exception to my usual practice of not reading parliamentary speeches and I will allow myself, Mr Councillor, because I believe in the pedagogical role of politics..., I will allow myself to read some articles to you. I, as a citizen of Catalonia, therefore, the truth, made me a harton or I've made a lot of reading articles, for example, of Mr Torra, speaking of the Spanish speaking as « beasts beaten with human form ; of Mr Junqueras, speaking of the genetic differences between Spanish and Catalan. I have read articles, therefore, certainly, based on an identity nationalism, collectivist, which has nothing to do, of course, with the Illustration, has nothing to do with a message that is minimally high in intellectual terms. Therefore, let me read an article from the year 12, so that you can see to what extent you are not only tired of us and us of you, but that we have been hearing the same kind of things from nationalism for many years, and to see if, at last, the pedagogical function of politics is able to transcend the borders of this Parliament. Let me read a 2012 article by Mr.Félix Ovejero: "A little air in the face of immersion. Again nationalism with the drums of catastrophe. No one proposes that Catalan cease to be a vehicular language or the separation of children by languages, but simply the application of sentences of the Constitution and the Supreme that endorse a lukewarm bilingual education – I suppose that sounds to you, counselor. « Always attentive to the concerns of local power, the disciplined civil society does not lack the umpteenth cornet touch, nationalism. The university directors and members of the AMPA are photographed outraged with independentist acronyms and parents are called to demonstrations by e-mail. I guess it also sounds like: demonstrations like demonstrations at the gates of Canet's school to coerce parents who dare to ask for a twenty-five_per_cent of teaching hours in Spanish. « To the Catalan left – says Ovejero – « he lacks time to point out himself, something inexplicable. Since 1953, education in the mother tongue is a right recognized by UNESCO, and among us bilingualism was the model of the Republic, including the Statute of Nuria, and what the PSC defended until two days ago, appealing to its head teacher, Marta Mata. Now, without knowing how or why, we find ourselves on the left relating identities with nations and citizens, arguing with the intellectual limbs that nurtured the worst European history. If you doubt it, see the interview of Raül Romeva, then Euro MP of Initiative per Catalunya - Verds, after Esquerra, in short..., I don't know where he is now, but in any case, on the interesting blog A World in Your Ear. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] « Usually... Disabled, the pointer tells me – I thank you –; disabled, yes, for considerable crimes. « Usually, when you shout a lot, the reasons are scarce, and these days you scream more than ever. But there are also arguments. In some book and in these same pages I have tried – says Felix Ovejero – "to show the poverty of the theoretical foundations of normalizing policies – which is the term you use to try to homogenize Catalan society under the same pattern, a single people. "Now, under the rhetorical tide, new, less theoretical reasons appear; they appeal to reality, effectiveness and – oh – consensus. It's all right to evaluate them. The first invokes Catalan reality, assaulted in its identity. "To clarify identities," says Ovejero, "is not a simple thing, even when it comes to individuals; in the case of communities, I do not tell them. In any case, any idea of identity has to attend to the common or, failing that, to the majority, never to the extravagant or singular. Here Felix Ovejero makes one of his very happy comparisons. He says that the identity of his family is not his high and blond cousin– Felix Ovejero is not exactly a tall and blond type – and, « according to the Generalitat itself, the fifty_y_five_per_cent of Catalans have as their mother tongue the Spanish, and the 31,6_per_cent, the Catalan. Releas, Mr Councillor, releas: Spanish is the common and largely majority language of Catalans. Now, the question that Ovejero then put to the nationalists of the past, I throw at the hogs. The question is, Mr. Counsellor, who does not respect Catalan identity? The second one points to pedagogical effectiveness. We are told that Catalan children who are not enrolled in Spanish have a higher proficiency in the common language than the rest of the Spanish. If so, there are only two possibilities: both Catalans are a portent of nature, and schooling in a language is counterproductive for their knowledge. Since neither is plausible, we must doubt the sources and, indeed, look closely at the data this time too. Mr Ovejero reminds us here as Joaquim Prats himself, former head of the PISA report in Catalonia, recalled that the PISA report in Catalonia is made only in Catalan. And I think this is important to remember to dismantle another of the mantras that supposedly believes that the level of Castilian of Catalan children is comparable to that of the rest of Spain because it is said in the PISA report – another of the nonsense that you have popularized and divulged urbi et orbi. In this sense, Ovejero said that, yes, "it is only acquired – the full rule of the Castilian – "with schooling, as the President of the Generalitat well knows when he chooses a trilingual school for his children, which is quite common among nationalist politicians. The rule of Spanish is obtained when you choose schools for your children who have Catalan, Spanish and English as their vehicle languages, but then force all the citizens of Catalonia to have a single vehicle language, which is Catalan. The third invocation that Mr. Ovejero speaks of is the one that says..., speaks of cohesion. "Bilingualism seems to divide Catalan society, according to you; a poor argument, no doubt. If teaching in a single language is a guarantee of cohesion, all Catalans should be educated only in Spanish. And, as I told you before, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, no one in this Parliament and no one in Catalan society – no one in his right mind – asks for education only in Spanish, as you do with education only in Catalan. It doesn't make any sense, in a bilingual society. And, indeed, if we were to try to preserve the cohesion of Catalan society, which has Castilian as its common language very much, perhaps the argument, although I am disgusted, would be that all Catalan children should be educated only and exclusively in Castilian. That would be if we accepted his argument of social cohesion... Yes man – yes man –, of course, there was no shortage; how are you going to school all Catalan children in Spanish? It can be done only in Catalan, but, please, not only in Spanish. Finally, the argument is imprecise, because it equates bilingualism with language separation, when it is not the same a system in which pupils stay together while they are taught different subjects, in the two or three official languages, as well as a dual network: Finland, for example. The argument of cohesion falls starkly when we look at the case of Finland. In Finland there is a bilingual system and children have very good results, using two vehicular languages, which is what you are trying to avoid systematically. « Actually, the planetary anomaly – says Felix Ovejero – « is the political and linguistic system of Catalonia. That's the planetary anomaly. "In this sense," says Felix Ovejero, "placed to say everything, until I doubt the sincerity of the nationalist arguments and the concern of nationalism for civil peace, indeed. And the last argument of the nationalists appeals to the citizen consensus. The statement' I agree because we all agree is held in the air, that is, nowhere. It would be enough for them to change their minds so that the argument would cease to apply. Therefore, I would tell the Socialist Party gentlemen that this argument of consensus, that as everyone agrees we accept the status quo, must begin to be discussed once and for all in our community. In this sense..., and I would ask the President for generosity, since I don't usually extend myself too much in my interventions since the Faristol, at least..., I would ask for generosity, because I am a little short to finish the article of Ovejero, which I believe has a pedagogical function of the most interesting. And, in this regard, allow me to remind you of an explanation given by Mr Ovejero as to why this so-called unanimity in the classrooms. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] He recalls the case of a teacher who teaches the class in Catalan, and when the lesson is finished, he approaches the student in question and repeats in Spanish what he has just explained in Catalan. "The student has the right to speak Spanish with the teacher and to take the exams in this language, but his textbooks must be written in Catalan and he must always stay in class with the other students. Translated: Let's see... the brave one, one step ahead. « Qualifying this procedure as humiliation – says Ovejero – « is to be cut short; it does not reach segregation. Look, Mr. Counsellor, what I want to say to you with this is that this article written in 2012 is absolutely current, it is absolutely in force. The policy you are carrying out is a policy that is contrary to the fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia, contrary to what you have given in calling the 'Catalan identity', because it is clear that, if there is a Catalan identity, it is a plural and diverse identity, which you are fighting hard, Mr. Counsellor. And I'm still in the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.262.0	Mr Martín Blanco, I was generous, but at the same time, as I was talking about languages, I remind you that in the castle the word is "faistol, no Faristol. Ancient occity; e.g. Faistol, no Faristol. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But you said, "Faristol, that's why I say it... Speaking in the castle, you said, "Faristol, and I explain to you that it's faistol. The word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.263.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Martin Blanco, I would say that today you will be right if not on the part that you are predictable, and also on the part of the mutual tiredness that we have. I think so, that's what I'm giving him. I think my intention in no case will be to surprise him, I warn you, and therefore you say what you always say, and in any case, I will answer what I have grown from time to time, too. The Catalan school model. I'm walking a little bit back. I say this because you always start from initial points, from starting situations, which answer to failures, which answer to lies. And when the starting point is wrong, what you say continues from this initial diagnostic used to be wrong. We do what we do, with political consensus, with pedagogical consensus and with social consensus, to close the model of Catalan school. And the Catalan school model – and this I didn't think of myself – is a model that has been an example of equity, equality of opportunity and social cohesion for decades in Catalonia. The Catalan school model for decades in Catalonia has been an example of learning about the Catalan language, the castle and how to learn better. And, therefore, for what he does to the judicialization of the català in the classrooms, we have done what we said since the first moment we would do, and that's what we used to do. They may like what we do more or less, but what we do is what we say we do. And what we said we'd do is fight with all of our own before a court of law that doesn't take into account how decisions are to be made around school. How are decisions to be made around school? With pedagogical criteria. And, therefore, this struggle with all of our tools to close the model of Catalan school has translated, among other activities, into a law in the Parliament of Catalonia with eighty per cent of the deputies in favour, and it has translated into a decree approved by the Government. He said: "We guarantee that all the students, at the end of a quarter of ESO, have all the knowledge in català as well as in castella, and as more linguistics, better. And another important element that I also shared in this chamber and at all times where we had the opportunity to exchange impressions in respect of language, which for me, as a counselor, was very important, is this legal coverage, this legal coverage of directions, teachers and linguistic projects of all schools, institutes and educational centres in the country. This week, precisely, the High Court of Justice has made it clear that this struggle with all our tools has given its result. It has clearly not been possible to apply precautionary measures from twenty-five percent to classrooms, and this has happened for the first time. And what the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has done is to place the Constitutional Court to which it is pronounced, to which it is pronounced on constitutionality. And I remind you that the Council of State Guarantees, to whom you, the right, have come, therefore, unanimously, with all two laws, has pronounced with this constitutionality as much of the decree of the Parliament as of the decree of the law of the Government. And, if I may, it's not just what we're doing to close the Catalan school model, but what we're doing in Catalonia is to recognize a catalan use-of-the-us situation at the educational centres, where it's obviously part of the solution. And, in this davalada of the use of català to the educational centers, what we have to do is to accompany the educational centers, among other activities, so that the linguistic projects of each of the acabin educational centers apply within each of the 72,000 classrooms, these 72,000 classrooms of the country where the master and teacher cannot sort out the language in which the class make. The master and teacher must make the class in the language that explains, with pedagogical criteria, the linguistic project of each school, the linguistic project of each institute. Your departure – before, at first – from a fallacy, from a wrong starting point. In Catalonia we are not before a monolingual education; we are not before a monolingual situation or a monolingual education. We do not secrete, nor do we do, by any type of motive: neither by genera, nor by origin, nor by language... We do not secrete by any type of motive. And, therefore, this is what we will continue to apply to Catalan schools. Jo, I don't know... after six years, I think the time has come for people not to cheat. I think the time has come for you, lords of Ciutadans, to deceive no one. You don't really want a trilingual education system. What you want is what defines them and what their essence is, which is to reduce more and more every time the presence of the Catalan language at school and in any area, in fact, of our society. But as much as you lie, you will not change the reality: there is no linguistic problem in Catalan schools, as has been shown for decades. The problem is you. There is no linguistic imposition, there is no indoctrination; it is said to be learning with pedagogical criteria. The Catalan education system has as its objective to guarantee the full knowledge of both official languages – the Catalan, the castle, the Aranès –..., as the most linguistic, better. And this is said to be culture, to be known, to be said right from children to education, and to be said opportunities for progress. It is also called linguistic diversity, "the cultural richness of our society. The more languages you learn, the better. They can defuse it with vulgarity. They can wear it from bilingualism, monolingualism, trilingualism... which they tend to wear, but in any case, they are starting from a wrong situation, from a fallacy, from a lie. They didn't get out or get married, lords of Ciutadans. One more time, the social consensus, the political consensus and the pedagogical consensus that they do is to close the model of Catalan school. Leave the schools alone and let the masters work, who are the ones who know how to educate and the ones who know how to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.264.0	Mr Ignacio Martín Blanco has the words in the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.265.0	Thank you, President. How pleasant it is to hear 'without people you think as different as Mrs. Borrás, with whom you can talk. Actually, that's Catalonia. Indeed, coexistence must prevail above all else. And we can have conversations, even philosophical ones. And, besides, she made an appreciation that she felt. I am very clear as it is said in the castle "Faristol, but in any case, it is possible that I have escaped, and this is the indistinct use of the languages of the citizens of Catalonia. In this sense, precisely, Mr. Counsellor, I am asking you for a political pedagogy exercise, as you spoke before. You're talking about diversity. Shut up and say we don't want a trilingual Catalonia. Say what we don't want, don't say what we want. We insist that we want a three-language Catalonia. And what I have clear, but clear, is that you do not want a Catalonia that respects the individual rights of the citizens of Catalonia, that you do not want a Catalonia that respects the diversity of Catalonia. And ask them..., I make a repte, if I want, at all, that it would be shattering and revolutionary, Mr. Counsellor of Education. The movement is shown to be walking. Here there is a parliamentary group, which is that of Ciutadans, basically, which is surely the one that proportionally makes a use more indifferent to the languages of Catalans, which makes a use of the catalan and the castle absolutely indifferent – we talk sometimes in catalan, sometimes in castle. It would be magnificent, extraordinary, that you, Mr González-Cambray, who, moreover, consider him perfectly capable of doing so, come out here to the Faristol, the Atril or the Faistol or the Hall of Parliament, and make a complete intervention in the castle. I'm telling you, I'm telling In a language..., such a revolutionary thing as an intervention by an education counselor, which must be from the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia..., and which you do in the language of most Catalans. I know it's a repte. It would be smashing motlles, and maybe even that would be a really surprising thing. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. I say to you, counselor, with all due respect: we do a political pedagogy exercise and you come out here, with all the comfort the user gives you, which I am sure is perfectly worthy of, of the castle, and you do a complete intervention in the castle, as I do on many occasions in one of my two languages, which I consider to be close to the individual, who are the Catalan and the castle. I'm sure he won't. Counselor, you have the diversity of Catalonia. You dislike, like the vast majority of nationalists, the diversity of Catalonia; you dislike bilingualism, you dislike the use, in short, normal that we have many citizens of Catalonia of the Spanish language or of the Spanish language. That's why I gave it to you before who assaults, who carries against the identity of Catalans? If we're to talk about an identity of Catalans... it's a necessary multiple identity. It is a different identity, a plural identity, in which, effectively, the català and the castle – perhaps more the castle, but also the català – have a phonological presence. It is obvious that there are other languages in Catalonia that also conform to the identity of the citizens of Catalonia, but in a majority, vastly majority, the Catalan and the castle have a pre-eminence towards the rest of the languages of Catalonia. Therefore, Mr. Counselor, I insist on what I tell you, the movement is shown to be walking. To me, to go out to this Faristol, to this rostrum, to make a coherent and consistent speech with which my party defends, with which it has been seven years – it does not exist – we defend from this rostrum and from many other pulpits..., therefore, I say it with all naturality. I like this consistency, this consistency, this ability to say the same thing I say in private..., say it in public. What I wish for my children is a trilingual education, an education like the least bilingual. And let's figure it out: what I want is for the castle and the català to have a balanced presence in the education of my children, and for my children to have a balanced experience of their identity, if they want, or, in any case, their own languages as citizens of Catalonia, which are both the català and the castle. And that's exactly what you, who built a nationalist regime in Catalonia based on an essentialist identity, want to avoid. I insist, I say all this with all naturality, with all normality, in one of the two languages that I speak every day to my life. I don't know if you do it either, but in any case, I do it every day: I speak Catalan and castella with my family, with my friends, with my surroundings, with absolute naturality. And so, when I come to the Parliament of Catalonia, I often speak Spanish. I remember that, in this Parliament, when Albert Rivera made his first speeches in the castle, some would disappear. And even there was some deputy of Democratic Convergence who came out running, absolutely scattered, shouting, "What are the children of the hemisphere! In this case, it was not an intervention of Mr Rivera, of Albert Rivera, but an intervention of a member of the People's Party years back. But, in any case, he cried out: "There are children in the hemicycle, there are creatures! Please don't speak in the castle! One thing, I insist, is the ownership of an authoritarian regime that does not respect diversity, that does not respect pluralism. And I insist, I affirm my repte, Mr Councillor: come out here and do before all this hemicicle an intervention in the language of the majority of the citizens of Catalonia. You will be a pioneer, and perhaps even regain a little popularity among the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.266.0	To answer, in the reply tower, has the word the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.267.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Martin Blanco, popularity is not my goal – it is not my goal. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] In any case, my goal is every day to give the best of my own to take the best decisions and accompany the educational centers so that each time I go to school, every time I get better quality, every time I get less segregated, every time we can have a school, structurally, in better conditions, because our teachers and our teachers do the work they know how to do, which is to educate our infants. That would be my goal, and I assure you it wouldn't be popularity. Therefore, I will not make any decision or act to achieve this popularity. That's what you said: what do we want? I answer what we want, if not, as an education counselor and as a government: what we want is a Catalan school model that continues to guarantee..., to close it, because it is the model that guarantees equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion, and it has done so for decades – it has done so for decades. And, therefore, we want a model of Catalan school that doesn't secrete by reason of motivation, and neither, obviously, by language. We want a model of Catalan school where all our children, where all our young people finish the compulsory stage with full knowledge of the català and, obviously, of the castle, and of how more linguistic, better. And that's what's going on, Congressman Martin Blanco, that's what's going on. Sometimes that's what we've been talking about, too, huh? You will not find any young people who have less knowledge in the castle, or who do not have knowledge in Catalan, compared to any education system in the rest of the Spanish State. They won't find him, they won't find any young man who doesn't have castle acquaintances. Therefore, what I was giving to the animate, and it is what I was referring to when I started my intervention: unfortunately, we will not be surprised, today, either; we will not be pleased with each other and we will not be surprised either, because you are starting from faults, because you are starting from lies, because the Catalan education system has no linguistic problem. In fact, during his intervention it seemed to me that for a moment he was saying: "Naturality, naturality. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, we do not have a language conflict. Naturality. I agree: naturality. You say 'as you want' – you say 'as you want' – you just want to – you just want to – you just want to – but, please, with the same naturality I tell you not to invent, then, that there is a linguistic conflict in Catalan schools, because there is no such conflict. I wouldn't have any trouble taking his repte; what happens is that I can't feel him, taking his repte. And, therefore, it's not a por theme; it's a theme that I can't find his grace, I can't find his sense. And so, as you can see, I didn't take your turn, among other reasons, because everyone understands me, when I speak Catalan in this hemisphere. And, among other things, what I said to him so far: that, obviously, every person who expresses himself as he wishes, but, like the government of the country, we must ensure that catalá is the language to drive to the country's schools, and, therefore, that everyone finishes the compulsory stage with knowledge of catalá, castella and how more linguistic, better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-20-3601.268.0	Thank you very much. So we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
