ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.1.0	Good morning. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies to encourage birth and address the demographic winter]] [[302-00076/13]] We resume the session on the agenda item, the motion following the question to the Government on policies to encourage birth and address the demographic winter, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.2.0	Well, good morning. Very good morning to everyone. Well, in the past Plenary, from our Parliamentary VOX Group we present a very specific diagnosis regarding the situation of the demographic winter and low birth rate in Catalonia. And it is that the consequences of the low birth rate we suffer are very clear. One, the population replacement abounded by irregular immigration. Because, do you know that, of the five provinces of Spain with the highest percentage of births with at least one father of foreign origin in 2019, four of these provinces were the four Catalan provinces? That's what I'm telling you all about. Two, generational replacement. Three, the destruction of the family. Four, moral and cultural relativism. And five, the economic decline. And it is that, in the face of the political paralysis of the Government and its working leadership opposed to the real needs of Catalans, we could not remain motionless. And that is why today we are presenting nine proposals, which are key to tackling the «demographic hell and reversing the situation of low birth rate in Catalonia. Our proposals are divided into three main lines of action. First, fiscal measures, because specific fiscal measures are urgently needed to release disposable income to those families that decide to have a child and to end once and for all the tax asphyxiation to which you have been subjected to Catalan families. Second, measures of financial support, direct and indirect, to accompany and help couples who want to have a child. And thirdly, measures to raise public-political awareness and awareness of the importance of birth. With regard to tax measures, we propose to increase the tax deduction by birth of the IRPF in the Catalan autonomous tranche. We ask that the amount of the deduction be increased to eight hundred euros and that it be applicable during the first five years of the newborn's life, and that the amount be increased to as many children as possible. In addition, we propose to introduce a new tax deduction in this section of IRPF for children's services in health and education. And it is that with the proposal of VOX Catalan families will be able to save much of their spending on education and health services for children between the ages of zero and ten years. We also call for the free provision of children's education through a school check system between the ages of zero and three. And, with regard to direct and indirect economic measures and proposals for public-political awareness, we propose to include a universal benefit per child of EUR 100 per month up to the age of eighteen. In addition, we have called for an increase in the birth grant currently established in Catalonia by increasing its endowment according to the number of children and giving priority to Spanish citizens. And we call for specific measures to support the emancipation of young couples in pregnancy or with children, and for proposals for family work reconciliation to be promoted so that no woman who wants to have a child or is pregnant feels discriminated against at work. Finally, we propose the dismantling of the Council of Equality and Feminism and its replacement by the Council of Family and Birth. Because, how dare you justify yourself to the Catalans who are able to spend more than 90 million euros on feminist indoctrination policies, but are unable to support young couples who want to form a family? Members, be brave; approve this proposal and ensure and protect the future of your children and grandchildren. We, from our Parliamentary VOX Group, will continue to work to ensure that Catalans have decent housing, stable jobs and decent wages. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.3.0	It has the word, then, to defend the papers presented, Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lora, I'm addressing you because I don't think the other groups are even listening. I must say that the VOX Group, with this initiative, I believe that it has opened the melon – or spaghetti cap – of an important debate, a pending debate and an uncomfortable debate. Sometimes the struggle for freedom changes sides – or bands. It seems here that, after years of just claims in favor of feminism or women, all this has served us to reach a simplified, sectarian, invasive left, which has nothing to envy, at times, the Women's Section of other times. Before the woman was a suspect if she did not simply do her work with her husband and children; now she is a suspect if she wants to have children and wants to have them seriously and seriously asks for help to have them. And, who says the woman, says the man, because this is a thing of two, at least. There is a family where there are people who want to form the, be it a family of people LGTBI, trans people, people who adopt, people who conceive by surrogate gestation or who give birth at the portal of Bethlehem. Here we do not discriminate between any family model. All families are worthy of respect and to be taken seriously. And ‘really means, in fact, less bonds, less banners, less herring, less posture, and putting policies, above all putting money – ‘pasta,' I trimmed – on the table. You have raised a number of tax measures. We are in principle in agreement with this. We have tabled a number of amendments – which you have rejected – not because we are against tax incentives for birth, but because we believe that what you are proposing is a little bit of flying and good thunder: a school check, a deduction whose amount is improvised without going into technical detail, and, above all, by going from the anti-progress side. I have no doubt that you hope to take vows of fear from the immigrant, the foreigner, when you launch the very dangerous idea that here you can only help the birth of Spanish children of pure race; well, that is not going to happen, it is impossible, and, even if it were possible, we want it to happen. Gentlemen of VOX, it is late to close the doors to global, social and, if I may, even moral reality. Not to irregular immigration and the dramas it entails, of course, but that is arranged by regulating immigration, not throwing children children out of illegal immigration into the sea. Here we give birth to all that we want or do not save God. That is why we, well, had tabled these amendments, with the conviction that they would be rejected, above all by opposing the idea that the aid they are proposing, some of which are relevant, should be only for Spanish citizens, because we believe that this is a vice and detracts from the debate since before it began. It is a pity that the forgetfulness that the family and birth are having many self-proclaimed policies « feminists..., only find a replica to involve, let's say, to reverse and reverse rights that should be not so conquered, but not in debate. And we, from Citizens, will continue to stubbornly defend the wisdom, the center, the defense of all models of family, of all models of birth. And we want to do that professionally, leave..., desideologized – I won't get out, desideologized – and, finally, with a little common sense and interest in people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.5.0	Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.6.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have recovered the inquiry that Mrs Lora made in December about this motion, and that painted us an absolutely apocalyptic scenario. He spoke at that time of a «demographic hell, and even alluded to the danger– and I quote textually – of «suicide, disappearance and extinction as Spaniards and Catalans, because Catalonia without Spaniards is not Catalonia. And Spain without Catalans is not Spain – this I introduce – but, anyway, if we go to extinction, this will be a debate that won't make much sense at that time, won't it? You recommended us, then, to fix ourselves in two countries that for you were the paradigm of social policies. They talked about Poland and Hungary. I went to see what are the birth rates of Poland and Hungary. Poland has been down for ten years at birth, right now it's at a 9.4. And, in the case of Hungary, it has been ten years in a 9.6 – sometimes a little bit higher, sometimes a little lower. Nor, fortunately, do we look like Hungary and Poland, where fascism is undermining the human rights of their citizens. And that is the mirror in which you feel reflected, and that is the reflection that we fight every day from our political formation. But, of course, after that intervention a certain expectation was generated in our parliamentary group to know what measures VOX was going to propose to prevent – I insist – « suicide, disappearance and extinction as Spaniards and Catalans. And basically there are four measures. The first, two tax deductions from the IRPF's autonomous tranche; an economic benefit of EUR 100 per child in charge only for Spaniards – the rest would be condemned to extinction –; education zero-three free years – welcome to the club, we have been asking for it for a long time, but for checks not, eh? , that it is a universally recognized right for us–, and to create the counseling of families and birth. And then we won't be extinct anymore, huh? [[Rialles.]] Look, gentlemen of VOX, you have no solutions. You are agitators of low passions. They use a populist discourse without having any feasible solution on the table. To foster birth, among other things, a stable labour economy is needed; a thorough review of our pension system is needed; a review of our social protection system, effective income and housing policies, and quality public services is also needed. And you're just on the opposite side of all that. You propose one hundred euros a month per dependent child, but you abstain from voting for a minimum living income that gives six thousand euros a year to families who have less. You believe it is necessary to improve working conditions, but you abstained and voted against the ERTEs in the midst of the pandemic. You care a lot about the children before you are born, to get rid of them once you are born. Only in this way is it understood that they voted against the children's law that was recently passed in the Congress of Deputies. I have come to hear from some Members of Parliament about their political formation in this Parliament about "legal and illegal" children. And the truth is that I'm worried about what goes through that head to make that cruel distinction: between "legal" children and "illegal" children. You defend families, but you forget mothers when you vote against the laws that protect them from male violence and empower them. And you talk about poverty and inequality as you vote against the revaluation of pensions with the IRPF. I must admit that it must be quite stressful to live in this permanent contradiction and to swim constantly in this well of bitterness where you have been settled for a long time. You try to explain a global phenomenon that happens in the vast majority of developed countries, such as the fall in birth, as an element of confrontation between countries and between citizens. Their political formation does not represent those who have less; on the contrary, it confronts them and makes them compete for poverty. Their goal is to generate fear and, at the same time, to offer themselves as the protectors of all evils. The reality is quite different: extreme right-wing regimes are characterized by increasing inequalities, by cutting rights and freedoms and by imposing fear rather than fighting it. And they usually do it. They do this by deceiving the popular classes, who are experiencing very complicated situations, who expect easy solutions to complex problems, and there you are the best smoke sellers. They put the blindfold in their eyes so as not to recognize that our society, for the most part, is more open, it is more modern, it is more plural, it is more educated and it is more mature than you believe. And even at the risk of extinguishing us, our parliamentary group will vote against all its motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.7.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.8.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. This Parliament approved a law, Law 19/2020, of 30 December, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, with the objective of establishing the principles and regulating the measures and procedures to guarantee and enforce the rights to equal treatment and non-discrimination, respect for human dignity and protection before any form, act or conduct of discrimination that is given in the territorial scope of application of this law. Fifteen areas of discrimination: by reason of birth or place of birth, origin, nationality or belonging to a national minority; by reason of race, colour of skin or ethnic origin, political or other opinion – religion, convictions, ideology, language, cultural origin... It is a law that does – I could follow – a comprehensive precision of all areas in which we do not want discrimination to occur in this country, as it should be. And, since in the experience of this young man, as it was already very clear in the previous question, as it was yesterday when he presented himself and as you see when we read the points he presents, there is an explicit intention to discriminate on grounds of place of birth, origin or nationality, there is a clear xenophobic and racist motivation that this Parliament cannot allow, we will not vote for the whole young man. We will vote 'not and will not go into the subject of tax aid and child protection, and not for lack of proposal, not because we do not have much to say in the defence of the right to the extension and non-transferability of parental permits, in the need for all creatures and seas to have access to the support, whatever the family organization mode they choose, without discrimination, in the freedom of the seas to choose their model of motherhood, and on many other measures that protect reproductive work and cures and the right to childhood. We will not go into the background, in this matter of substance, because, despite the fact that we have much to say..., and we will not go into it because of this motion to deny the major: because it violates the principle of equal treatment and, therefore, the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination that establishes the general framework of regulation to guarantee the right of all people to live with dignity, security, autonomy, exploitation, maltreatment and all kinds of discrimination, and because it is absurd that in this catal Parliament it has come to the point of faristol, without complexities, the speech of hatred and the apology of patriotic nationalistic supremacy, which is also a class discourse in favour of the rich and against the poor. And to the chamber near us, deputies and deputies, to analyze the causes of this shame, of this shame unworthy of a consolidated democracy, in order to be able to stop the deadly virus of the extreme right also from the institutions. I can't be, before I finish, and with the memory of the daily denunciations well present, to think how it is that in a young man who claims to be the protection of the family there is not a single element of the institutional violence that we exercise as a society every day expelling from his thousands of creatures and their families, throwing them on the street and climbing absolutely all his rights. Miran, only to Badalona, from the 10th generation until tomorrow, twenty-seven denunciations, in which there were eighty-four creatures, eighty-four smaller, who would have stayed in the street if there had not been any compromises to defend their right to habitat, sees and sees that they were often retaliated and beaten. What's going on? That they are not part of the childhood that the proponents want to protect increasing population? The proposers bet on a clear genetic selection: neither strangers nor poor. A speech that reminds us of Hitler's Germany. I don't, they won't pass. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.9.0	It is the turn, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can, of the deputy Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.10.0	Thank you, President. So, actually, we came today to live the second part of the very Spanish version of the account of the maid that we saw in the inquiry that was made in disembarkation, an absolutely dystopian inquiry where, indeed, we went towards the extinction of a whole nation because there were a lot of people having children and that, moreover, these people were not of this great birth and Spanish homeland. And we came to see the second season thinking, so, actually, what's the big remeis to fight this extinction? I believe that Mr Raúl Moreno has been quite explicit, concrete, in the way he has, in some way, disappointed us, this lack of continuity of the apocalypse. Because the problem with VOX isn't with the birth rate or the reasons for which there's a birth rate. The problem is tea, VOX, where those who are born are not like they want: they don't have the skin color they want and they don't have the origin families they want. I have bad news for the lords and lords of VOX, because they may not have fallen, but there are also many Spanish citizens who have Spanish nationality – and therefore the same rights and rights as any Spanish citizen – who are not born in Spain, who have another skin color, who have another language and who have another religion. I don't know if you think these people are capable of having this help. I understand that it is, because the fact of getting a DNI is reason enough to have a right to a series of aids and subsidies that other people would not have right. And we, counsel, do want to explicitly ask him that, having passed Law 19/2020 – as has already been mentioned – he is active, because we believe that this motion is directly an act of discrimination. Therefore, it would certainly be worth the start of a sanctioning expedient applying the 19/2020, because what we are discussing and what will be voted on today in this Parliament is an act of discrimination, racism and xenophobia. And if we have a law and we have instruments... we need to have them to apply them. We can't just contemporaries and make speeches and make it look like this isn't happening. We agree that many measures are being taken to cope with the fact..., not so much with the fall of Christmas, but rather with the fact that many families want to have children and girls and cannot; it is not that they do not want to, it is that they cannot. And they can't because they see a situation of job insecurity that doesn't allow them to make a minimum planning of what their life will be like, which entrances tend to cope with expenses and the responsibility that children and girls suppose to have. That's why I need a job reform that ends with this precariousness. We believe that there are many families that can't have children, although they want to, because they don't have the right to housing, because they don't know how long they can live in the piss they see, because maybe after the contract to host them has ended, they'll push them a 30_per_cent. This is why we believe that measures should be taken to guarantee the right to housing, that measures should be taken to control the price of the lodger to avoid speculation, that empty floors should be mobilised, that large estates with empty floors should be sanctioned, that it should be expropriated in the event that these empty floors are not mobilised, and that it should oblige the large estates to provide a social lodger to families in a situation of vulnerability threatened by a denunciation. Because we believe that guaranteeing the right to housing will have many families who can, because they want to, have children – no matter where they were born. We also believe that one of the themes for which many women do not want or cannot or do not want to have children or girls is because they are thinking about how they will affect them in their working life, in their professional career, in their vital course; if they can devote themselves to that job that they want and this will be compatible with the child's fact. That's why the extension of parental and maternity leave and intransferability are key. We also believe that many families think very much about having children because it is not guaranteed public teaching from zero to three years. And not through secs that can go to private, but guarantee a public and quality offer for everyone, from zero to three teaching. Therefore, yes, there are many things that can be done because those families, I insist very much, that they want to have children and girls do it, because it is also there who does not want. There are also those who do not have, as part of their vital project, children and girls, and this also has to be respected. What we have to guarantee is that whoever wants, can, in all possible forms of family. And that's how we guarantee the rights of all these families, and that's how we make sure that there's a model of child care that's protective and that's guaranteed for everyone that wants it – no matter where I was born, no skin color, no religion. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.11.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.12.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that I would like to focus the subject of the debate on the subject of this motion, because we have heard so many things..., I don't know what has been more apocalyptic, whether who was trying to explain the apocalypse of that inquiry or who today justified his refusal to vote on this motion. We do share, in part, the diagnosis made by the group that brings this proposal today regarding this need for the promotion of birth, which, of course, Mrs Segovia, for those families who do not wish to have children, because there is no problem, but it is true that I believe that the task must be made easier for all those other families, for those women, for those men, who do want access to fatherhood and motherhood and who, however, cannot do so because of various circumstances, which are the ones that have brought us to this 'demographic winter of which this motion speaks. And I say that I share, in part, that diagnosis – perhaps not the causes that generate it – but in the end today we are voting for some programmatic points, some policies to implement, in which we – in many of them – agree. So in agreement that, in fact, just a few days ago in the Community of Madrid President Ayuso also announced a plan of birth promotion with eighty measures, with an investment of 4,800_million, that we have already announced also that we are going to move to the Parliament of Catalonia, that we are going to transform it into parliamentary initiatives, and we will also try to implement those policies of birth promotion here in Catalonia. Some of them are taken up in this motion. We are talking, for example, about tax issues, deductions... There are points where we are obviously not going to give support, either, because they introduce criteria with which we do not agree, and I believe that the reasons for this have already been expressed here by other groups. And, moreover, it seems to me..., apart from violating the principle of equality, it also seems to me that it can be dangerous, because the door can also be opened to exclude other segments of the population on other occasions due to other criteria and political reasons, which in this case we will not support such measures. But, yes, I insist, on others, which provide for such aid for the promotion of birth, which also provide for such tax deductions. The subject, for example, of moving from this deduction of the one hundred and fifty to eight hundred euros, both by birth and by adoption up to the age of five, seems to us to be a measure that is obviously necessary and that we too share. I insist that there is some little thing..., nor... For example, in point 3 also bets on universalization without taking into account income. I think here you'd have to mattize a little. Other sections. Well, from 5 to 8 I think they have no more problems, and that, I insist, they are certainly in line with those proposals that we are already implementing in other autonomous communities. With regard to point 9, which calls for the creation of this new family council and, in addition, also uses it to call for the elimination of others, I believe that perhaps we do not need to create more structures and more departments, but what is needed is to implement the policies that Catalan families need. It's just that. We have the advice to do so – for example, through Children or any other – because policies are very cross-cutting. I have indeed missed, perhaps, in this motion measures aimed at supporting those single-parent families or large families, which also have a lot of difficulties, which we, for example, did include in this plan which told them of eighty measures announced by President Ayuso. Also measures aimed at the whole issue of assisted reproduction. You know that we have put a lot of emphasis, also from Madrid, to make the criteria more flexible and to extend these criteria of access to assisted reproduction treatments in order to try to reduce waiting lists as well. Also in the early diagnosis of fertility problems, in order to be able to advance the start of these treatments and then be less difficult. It is true, therefore, that we have missed these kinds of measures, which we believe would also contribute to the promotion of birth and to the end of this 'demographic winter' of which the motion speaks. Therefore, as I say, on some points, then, we will give our support, and on others we seem to be getting into problems, I insist, even that they may collide with some laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.13.0	It is the return, now, of the deputy Anna Feliu, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... well, today we're here before a VOX youth with a layout that only closes his country with elite proposals, like now tax deductions to pay for private school and sanitation. Here we already have a public system of quality for everyone we feel very proud of as the country. I find it scandalous, too, that this young man's base follows an inquiry saying that the Government of the Government is an ally of Bin Laden's terrorism, because, according to you, as indigenous women do not have enough children because of the Government, terrorists – who are clearly immigrants – will conquer us because they have more children than we do. When they put this on paper, are they aware of what they say? Miri, it's an honor for me to be a Member of Parliament, with a few duets and a few responsibilities, and I think we need to be up and not go out here and say the first time we're going down the road. It's been a few months since I've listened to your speeches, and frankly, you find them unpleasant, repetitive and so far away from reality that they can't be any more. They talk about "demographic hell, "suicides and "extinction of Catalan society. In short, an apocalypse in which there will be no one left – except the terrorists, of course. And to save us, they say we have to follow the political model of Poland and Hungary. So look, these examples of public policies of these countries are just fan, por. Countries where the rights of women and immigrants are systematically violated, with leaders like his idol, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who defines himself as the defender of Hungary and Europe against Muslim immigrants with racist policies and authorities. Certainly, here we also have immigrants from Poland and Hungary. And you know why? Because here he saw himself well, and much better than we do when we're still independent. Our models of social policies are not Poland's or Hungary's, nor Spain's. Our models are from countries like Sweden, Denmark or Finland. And that's why I'm telling you, when we're free and independent, we're still living better, so we can manage our own resources and match our welfare state to these countries. Because, to create a life project, our young people need economic stability, job security and decent housing. And how's the view? So look, we in Spain have a base of €965, a lot of what is collected in other European countries, and a youthful attunement of forty_per_cent. That means job insecurity and empty buttocks. With this panorama, emancipating and having children is not easy. Our challenge is to earn a basic salary of EUR 1,240 and to continue working in active employment policies, such as the €917 million plan for the promotion of employment that will help 112,000 young people and 263,000 women. That's what's done. How are you also devoting 19_million euros to helping to pay the loguer for young people under thirty-five years old, who will benefit from it? And also as it is to reserve the twenty-i-five percent of the social housing park for young people. Made as are the policies of the Verge Councillor, who are this course of cures for girls and girls from zero to fourteen years to help families in their work and family reconciliation. Done as is the free implementation of education from zero to three years, which will already start the next course with P2, or the reversal in nine rural schools. And these are real government policies directed at people and families, which we also complement with municipal policy. Mirin, we will continue to work for the country, for Catalonia of "yes to opportunities and a better future. Stayed, if they fly, in the winter of Poland and Hungary, in this film in white and black that they so passionately love. We're moving towards spring and the estuary of rights and freedoms for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.15.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Counselor... As the Councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Tània Verge, explained, there is neither in Catalonia nor worldwide a scene of demographic decline. So, this apocalyptic future that you wanted to signify simply isn't true, it's a pure lie. Data and projections show that they surely grow. Perhaps the problem they have is that this growth won't come for where you want, for where you preach. It will not come from children with a Spanish DNI under the arm, it will come from many forms, and various. These invented concepts, "demographic winter, "demographic hell, "demographic suicides – do not put the word "suicides in this way, and banalizing, in the mouth – they have no scientific basis and are pure ideology; a clear ideology, which they serve here and at all, which is the ideology of the extreme right. His proposals of this young man seem more treacherous than the Guide to the Good Wife of the year 53. [[some deputies make some observations of dissent]] , where the function of the woman is that of reproduction and to keep the husband happy, since, for example, they propose to dignify and improve the decision of one of the parents to dedicate themselves exclusively to the care and education of the children, who – spy – this..., were mostly the women; above all, they do not have economic independence, but..., let them be dependent on these husbands and those couples, which goes absolutely against the freedom that they also often pose in the mouth in a bad way. Because his family conception is as old as they're out. In his youth they refer to the family, but only to his family model, obviously built around a man and a woman, without taking into account that in this country, fortunately, there are many more family models, many more free forms of wanting to build a family life project. They talk about favoring couples where the woman is pregnant, as if this was the only way to build a family in our country or to contribute to the country's democratic progress. So look, fortunately this country is full of men and women – there are also men, yes sir – of various pairs who choose for other lives to build this family, hardly weigh them. And here we are. We are from the government and we are with the impulse of this Parliament. Because you use important words – important words – without scum or shame. How can they use the word 'freedom' when they explain, in addition, in their proposals only to a part of the people? The one who follows a single and determined pattern, the one who surely has the most guarantees of his rights, and not the one who constantly has to fight and claim them. How can they use the social justice clause, as they did yesterday in this Parliament, when their justice expired? Excludes those who are not « very Spanish and very Spanish– literal extret de la seva mocia: « exclusive to Spanish citizens. What freedom and social justice is there, if it's for a few privileged? Not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not one-not That is why the majority in this Parliament do defend freedom and do defend social justice. And that's why you – we make it clear – are deceiving people. They deliberately dispel and use these words banally. And they come to speak of motherhood and family with a vision of women as the belly to the service of a national, patriotic, misogynistic, LGTBI-phobic and xenophobic object, as the Councillor herself said with these words in response to the inquiry. So this country and this patriotic objective... this country neither exists nor will exist. What we are building is a country where motherhood and families are at the centre of policies, of feminist policies. And, from the government and with the clear impulse of this Parliament, the feminist transformation is what works for motherhood, putting the cures at the center and with public co-responsibility as the basic point of society – the Care for those who care. And we defended the families, all the families, the single parents also – one of the families of each of our country, many of them single-parents, of different genders, obviously –; linked families, regrouped families, foster families and foster families. Feminist transformation from the advice of Feminisms that you want to eliminate, and also feminist transformation from Education, from Habitatage and based on equal opportunities. Finally, his motion, apart from retrograde, is out of the question and xenophobic, clearly speeches of the extreme right, speeches of hatred, which we fight from this Parliament with all the majorities and with all our strength. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.17.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word, now, the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.18.0	Well, we came to them to talk about birth and we find that they come to us to talk about Nazism, and that's surreal. And they should be [[remorse of the voice]] ..., yes, they should drop their face of shame [[some applause]] to compare us with the discourse of those responsible for the greatest atrocity in history. And it is a shame, what we have had to hear today in this Parliament, and you should be ashamed of yourself. What happens to you, what happens to you, is that you hurt the truths. They are hurt by the truths that we have told today from our parliamentary group. But, unlike you, we defend people, all people, and their dignity regardless of their origin, race, sexual status or belief. We defend them all. [[Some applause.]] But yes – and I will recognise it, because it is not a crime to say it – we defend the principle of national priority, despite you. And in order to position me on the amendments, we have not been able to accept the Citizens' amendments, because they are amendments that make our proposals meaningless. And what would cause, if we accepted those amendments, would be that they would be proposals that would say absolutely nothing and would be a toast to the sun, and we do not want to toast to the sun. What we want are specific, concrete and courageous policies to foster birth; courageous, determined and specific policies of maternal protection; and determined policies of family protection. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.19.0	This young man's debate is over, so I'm guessing his vote will be in place this middle before he suspends the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the field of anti-racism]] [[302-00083/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the matter of anti-racism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.20.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. This reason that we present for us today has a very clear double objective: for one band, to fight the hate speech that we have just seen in this chamber, and also for the other, to end the structural oppression system that is present in all the spheres of our society and that generates discrimination for the simple fact of being as we are. To complement these objectives, we have already had an indispensable tool from Parliament, such as the anti-fessist pact. We reaffirm ourselves in this commitment to reform the Rules and Code of Conduct to shield this chamber from masculinist, racist, LGBTI-phobic, fascist, or any other form of discrimination. From the Republican Left we take the commitment to approve the anti-racism law, from a comprehensive approach, in all its forms and expressions, defending human rights and eradicating stigma and harm, and also fighting, in the end, for the civil and political rights of the people. I'd like to highlight a few points in the motion. First of all, we need to move forward in the work on the deployment of the sanctioning regime, as soon as possible, of the equal treatment and non-discrimination law to punish those racist and discriminatory behaviours. The people need it, and they demand it. I don't want anyone doubting our commitment to their actual deployment. We don't want to generate any doubt. In fact, we ourselves are the first ones to age for their correct deployment. We understand that one law complements the other. Secondly, political action must be pursued with an anti-racist and cross-sectoral perspective. We also want the design, during 2022, of a macro-enquiry that will help to land concretely the degree of racial discrimination that exists in society. This will allow us to detect, act, also prevent and, above all, not let go of the band, make memory and repair. We want campaigns of anti-racist awareness and awareness to eradicate any discriminatory attitude or hate crime. And it is essential to effectively guarantee the right of ownership of all people migrated without a fixed home, a difficult reality that involves the right of all servers and public servers to guarantee it. Training in anti-racist matters for all the staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya and the public administrations who are in the service of the citizenry. We firmly believe that formation is a basic tool of social transformation. We also need to age because locals have all the tools and tools to tackle any discrimination or racist attitude in the best possible way. We mustn't forget: local administrations are the closest to the citizenry and they should have the most tools to deal with this situation. For another band, we are also aware of the task of the associative fabric of our country, and that they directly reach a part of the population that is likely to be the victim of this type of racist aggression or discriminatory attitudes. That's why we firmly believe... that we can facilitate the financing of advisory projects, etc. And finally, to say that we must not forget, because we have just seen it, that we must recognize that our society is so steeped in racism that, unfortunately, we have normalized it. We've got to get this good thing out of our eyes. We need to be brave and valiant to transform this society and end racism, Islamophobia, xenophobia, anti-Gypsyism and any other form of racial discrimination in the social and institutional spheres. If we are in institutions it is to be useful to the citizen with actions and facts. Fighting hate speech is essential, and we need to feel all the interpellations. We need to build a free society from the culture of hate, and that, companies and companies, we can only ask for. Fem-hi front, racism, all folds and folds. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.21.0	It has the word, now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.22.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Today is the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust. And this young man, on a day like this, even though some speaker has been shocked by some comparisons – which are, of course, hateful – when we talk about racism, isn't it? It is difficult because, among all the abject regimes that have known the history of humanity and still know, the Nazi regime is, to be sure, one of the most outstanding, not to mention the most outstanding, until it has become the epitom of absolute evil. And, therefore, as it does almost any other hateful or terribly dehumanizing speech, sometimes this also serves as a shield against criticism, does it not? , and sometimes it also interferes with the attempts to analyze. But, in change, it's useful to talk about Nazism, when we're talking about racism. How would it be, surely, to talk about the system of racial segregation in force in the United States from the time of slavery and even force afterwards, or how would it be to talk about the rule of apartheid, or how would it be – far more than our cultural coordinates – talk about the racism that the Japan of the years came, thirty-forty practiced in its sphere of Asian influence, etc. But Nazism serves us to illustrate the differences of this ideology that racism is also. Because racism is an ideology – this is one of the days. Racism is also a system of social hierarchy, domination. Racism is also a mechanism to access and retain power. And this point is interesting to highlight, when we're also talking about racism today, because now that it's been a long time since the potency of racist speeches is for Europe and for other rights, we have to be very careful about how these speeches, normally spoken from populist political options, absolutely cynical, often hypocritical, opportunistic..., which they claim is to ride pores, anxieties, incite hatred and low passions, as my fellow Raul Moreno was so sure to point out in his intervention in the previous point; to ride these low passions and these for power. So, then, do exactly the opposite of what they predict when they're predicting workers. These games that are said to be laborers and merge their unions into the barrio of Salamanca deserve little credibility. Those who pass serigraphed buses say they are not racist or xenophobic, barely dispelled their speech of nativism, but then they identify the person coming from outside as guilty of insecurity and criminality, turning them into a target group. They don't fly or see them, in the barrels. Vein associations – "this glue of reds... – do not want or see them, in the barrels, because those who really care about the barrels know that it is with their veins and veins, those of all life and those who have come in the last few years, with those who will build a future. That's why associations don't want to see them, don't want to see them, don't they? To those who pass through these serigraphed buses they import a rave, our barrels. What they want is to ride the pores and the anxieties to power, and then apply their program, which is strictly neoliberal, which is strictly..., what my partner Raúl Moreno explained: it is strictly antisocial, it is what lays the foundations and conditions for the growth of inequalities. And convert—they and those who have preceded them into these kinds of speeches—the vertical, class, horizontal conflicts, right? , pretend to face the penultimate with the last. And he warns of the speeches of xenophobia, racism, nativism, because someone is the fruit of this voxic speech, which infects the public debate, and someone else is inspired by this kind of "bricoodi" that he sees from the outside. We also see it in the social media, with these people who, when announcing who is the first catalan born in the year, say: "It's not catalan. Therefore, alert with these speeches, those that are more obvious and those that, perhaps to sound more ours, some may be more lenient. Alert them all – alert them all – because the fight against this racism, against this xenophobia, is a thing of all. And, indeed, the most effective way to fight it is to reap the grass under the few and put the conditions for an authentic equality and an authentic freedom of all, those who have citizenship today and also all who live with us, our veins and our veins, who cannot be expelled from our political community. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.23.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win, has the word, now, Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.24.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we come to value a young man..., we can say to him « young man, we can say to him « advertising falcon, of the Department of Igualtat. One of the questions that we always give to all committees is the little room for manoeuvre in parliamentary groups that support the government, because in the end it seems that parliamentary action, therefore, is an extension of government action. Okay. The question that concerns us today about anti-racist policies..., in a general appreciation of the young man what we see is that there is a lot of haste on the part of the department to do things, to do things that seem to do, to transform, to change, but in reality they are not transforming anything. It is precisely this need for us to have the general whiteness of no longer being appointed, and to devote much more effort to no longer needing the exercise of racism to be indicated than to whom are the strategies and tactics and their 'times, which must be followed so that the action really remains transformative. In this sense, we have presented various papers. Some have accepted and some have not, and therefore, I will make a valuation of a little of what our feeling of voting will be. We will vote against point number 1, point number 2, and then second, point number 2. That is, against the impulse and approval of the anti-racism law, not because we are not in favour of pushing this law, but because this is something that is already happening – the department is already doing it, that is. So, when this action comes to Parliament, we'll have the debate we need to have in your parliament, and we'll have the debate we need to discuss with the text about the table. What we can't do is more cheating, and say, "We agree to push this law; but if it's already pushing it, the government." What do we intend to do here? One trap: "Do we agree that it looks good to us, and so, when it arrives, do we already have it on our face? So no, it's a big note. On the reform of the Rules. The reform of the Rules is already under way. Moreover, this is one of the questions, as Najat also indicated, which is already agreed between the pact we have made. Therefore, it is agreed, signed and sent – signed for the four groups we agreed to do so. So that Republican Left wants to push this reform here, so... we find it unnecessary. Collaborate with the committee of the institutional study? Home, you'd just miss it, wouldn't you? It is to say, that a committee of study of the Parliament is preparing an analysis in depth on a subject and that there is a dedicated council..., that you have to agree taking into account the work that is being done by the committee of study..., therefore, man, perhaps not the case. On the macro-survey, we will also vote against it. And why? Because we presented a statement that this macro-analysis was to be aimed at the potentially aggressor population. Why? Because we're tired of being study objects. We've got enough data. We have enough information, for all the years that have been made of anti-racist political incidence, to know what's going on. What we're going to look at is another gang, we're going to look at where these attacks come from, where these discriminations come from. Rather than treating us as study objects, and more so through a macro-question that what it means is a contract with a private company that does this macro-question to provide these data that are so much needed to continue with parliamentary action. We will vote in favour of the 19/2020 deployment, indeed, because it is an important thing that is pending; on awareness-raising measures, on the comprehensive plan against racism, on the resources of local authorities and on the resources of entities. However, there have been some points – which have not yet been approved – that speak about the financing of entities and the institutional violence that is exercised against entities and organisations through the subsidy system, which is not equipped with technical recourse to help entities, primarily formed by migrants, develop these justifications, which are impossible to complete already for the population in general, but specifically for the people who are migrated, which are the main formations that form these organisations. In short, if what you want to do to anti-racism is the same thing that you're doing to feminism, that is institutionalizing it to depolitize the street, with us you don't count. Good morning. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.25.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem, has the word, now, MP Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.26.0	Thank you, President. From time to time, on various occasions we have reiterated the structural character and its institutional expressions that racism has, helping it with interpretations of individual or even moral fall. Racism is systemic, and that is why we have agreed to set up a committee to study structural and institutional racism, which, of course, just approved its work plan a few days ago, and it is especially necessary when we have speeches that want to normalize hatred and racism. Therefore, it may be strange that some of the Comú Puerdes in general, and I in particular, as the racialized person, therefore, questions part of this process, but this process does not belong to me, nor does it belong to a concrete parliamentary group, does it not? This fight against racism is a collective struggle, of organized and politicized people and movements who demand justice, ask for reparation and settle historical debts. So, when we're talking about a population that has historically been discriminated against, I think we need to be especially curious about how we do things. I'll explain. As has been said, we have recently adopted – "recently in parliamentary terms" the Law 19/2020, and the objective is equal treatment and non-discrimination, which obviously includes racism. A great effort was made on the part of the parliamentary groups of this chamber to have a cross-sectional perspective, but we do not yet have a sanctioning regime of this law. Then, in this case, we agree that a sanctioning regime must first be deployed, the inn on the way out of an online complaint form, as we accompany and reinforce this law. So, in reality, we have an urgency now to legislate quickly and quickly, when we haven't even deployed certain key aspects yet? Or should we focus on developing a regime and strengthening what we already have, sooner or later in Parliament? Or should the government also focus and develop concrete policies and govern by listening to the demands and the rhythm, too, of social movements and anti-racist movements in particular? For example, today, in Catalonia, the racialized population is invisible, at the level of the impact that these types of policies have, right? We have to deal with public policies that affect and in some way legitimate institutional racism. So it's important to have data to drive concrete policies, isn't it? So why don't we focus on this kind of thing? We also need, in the line of one of the issues raised, a format for the staff of the Generality. Why are you making proposals from the municipalities, from the entities... but the generality needs a format, and at the level of all spheres, right? – of the world of education, of the police, of the cultural sphere – because, despite the fact that it is sfolklorit, then there is little support, as I said to the inquiry a couple of days ago, to the creation of cultural communities in resistance. Then, all the part of point 7, which spoke of collaboration with local authorities, was quite diffuse. Collaboration is resourceful, and in this sense, the ideas we have presented have come from this. We remember that, in fact, the immigration assumption was the only assumption that did not rise to the recently approved general assumptions. Collaboration is material in this, in concrete resources. Therefore, we insist that what we need is, perhaps, to calm down a little, to put the house in order, to listen to movements, and, from Parliament, to focus on developing this sanctioning 19/2020 rule and to study, with substance and with care and with time, the full impact of institutional and structural racism. We are developing a report that – home, and so on – must be taken into account. And I don't think that, as the People's Unit application company said, it has to be approved in a young man's seat. That's already a man of course. That is why Parliament is here. And, according to them, the government should focus on making anti-racism policies, listening to social movements, allocating sufficient resources to them, respecting their own time. Because let me say that convening a participative session on 29 September, when the web is still only in catal and castle, it's racist in itself, and it doesn't denote a cure, it doesn't denote respect for the people, and it lets out more partisan interests than a real and methodological will to fight against racism. We are fighting because the Generalitat..., and from here we will fight because the Generalitat governments for a Catalonia that is no longer just white. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.27.0	Next, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. I have already commented to you one more time that, after a wide study, César Vidal concluded that Stalin was the first to use words to silence the dissidents. Words that, addressed to individuals with divergent thoughts to their own, were gagged, since, by their pernicious connotations, no one wanted to feel identified with them: « macho, « racist, « fascist, « xenophobic... Since then, socialists, communists, separatists, have not ceased to use those words, being indispensable part of each and every one of their political discourses. You see, racism is defined as the ideology that defends the superiority of one race over the others and the need to keep the isolation or separation from the rest within a community or country. The Republican Left Group has today tabled a motion against racism, and we therefore understand that they condemn this concept, and therefore its former party partner, Herbert Barrera, former president of the Republican Left and former president of the same institution. And I literally quote it: "In America, black people have a lower intellectual coefficient than white people, or "We should sterilize the mentally weak people of genetic origin. Or to his colleague from Junts, Mr Torra, who has expressed so many statements perfectly in this idea : « The Spaniards are beasts carousing, vipers, hyenas with a serious tara in the DNA. [[Widow's remorse.]] I could thus continue all my speech, with statements also by Oriol Junqueras or Jordi Pujol, but then I could not explain to them why we are going to vote against his motion. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And its purpose is not to put an end to the racism that exists at the individual level, as happens to all his already appointed colleagues. His only goal is to make up xenophobic and superiority ideas, which have been governing his party for years, to try to silence institutions, such as the state's security forces and bodies, or political forces that do not think like you, as Stalin already did. When they speak of intersectorality, what they seek is to collect the Catalans and be able to change the regulations and promote laws to point out those who suit them; to divide society into oppressed minority groups, establishing the necessary requirements to be part of it, and to silence those who do not meet the credentials. Once again, they present a proposal to gag. [[Some applause.]] They talk about collaborating with the Commission on Institutional Racism, which is nothing more than an attempt at ideological manipulation of the bodies of the Generalitat. You talk about eliminating xenophobia or Islamophobia, but you really don't care about any of this. By their words they try to silence the dissent, those who denounce it, the neighbours, Mr Pedret, who suffer the consequences of the multiculturalism that you promote, and who no longer vote for them, and who have already failed in countries such as France and Belgium. [[Some applause.]] They try to camouflage the consequences of their policies of open borders and multicultural societies, which have turned our neighbourhoods into real crime scenes. The advance of globalism threatens the preservation of the cultural identity of Western nations, and we will continue to denounce it and point out it, and fighting it, to curb its progress. There will be no racism commission that can gag the feeling of the current Catalan. We are concerned and concerned about the dignity of people, regardless of their skin colour, origin, sexual orientation or religion; unlike you, that the only thing you do is collect people and use them in your ideological agenda, an empty agenda of traditional values. And, finally, they talk – and much – about the creation of new chiringuitos to place the few friends who, at this point in the legislature, are left to you to keep, and of thousands of euros in subsidies that come out of the pocket of all Catalans. You will see, from VOX we have very clear: the only anti-racism law that must be promoted is that of the Spanish Constitution, which makes us all equal Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.29.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.30.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen... Well, we are ahead of a young man who is the fruit of the Government – understand me, of the main party that supports the current Government of cohabitation to the Government of Catalonia – which makes him control himself; a young man in the field of anti-racism such as the control tool and the impulse of government action, which makes the same Government – we do not deceive ourselves – and the greatest glory of the Government. Res again. It's legitimate and we have to accept it that way. Now, we should not lose sight of this fact: it is a young man to the greatest glory of the Government. That is to say, it enters more into the field of propaganda than it does into the impulse of government action. That's why we didn't want to talk about it, but we wouldn't be analyzing it and even criticizing it. The young lady has a standard structure, with a first part calling for the action of this Parliament, of the members of this parliamentary chamber. The first paragraph of the young man is a paradigm of goodism. The proposed group wants the Parliament of Catalonia to reaffirm its firm commitment to a Catalonia free of any racist discrimination, and that is why it considers it necessary that, during this parliamentary term, legislative reforms be taken forward in order to move forward with the good aim of combating racism. The first reform proposed, the impetus and adoption of an anti-racism law in all its forms and expressions before the end of the current legislature, is in the hands of the Government of the Generality and the proposing party and its principal partner of cohabitation. Listen, do it. He's at his hands. I'm carrying a bill of law or, if not, a bill of law, and we're talking about it. They also want to reform Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and, by extension, the Code of Conduct of Members, they say that to shield the chamber before a series of behaviors that do not contemplate the rebuking of totalitarian behaviors beyond what you, on purpose, can classify as bexists. I do not know whether this definition of fascism includes anti-democratic acts such as the laying down of families who demand the compliment of the firm judgements of the courts by virtue of democratic laws– escort, much more democratic than those who wanted to glue them, nightly and treachery, on September 17– and respect the linguistic rights of their children. Certainly not, even though there are some ducts – those of the systematization of which I do not buy with its wheels of moli – which, if they are not faixists – which, in our opinion, could be considered this way – they are serious, in any case, totalities and anti-democratic. Therefore, they will not have our support in this respect. All the same, they make a rule of propositions right away the government – it is to say, itself – to do a series of things in which we may or may not agree. That's right, with the usual good guy to see what they do or think they do, but with the fact that they're a little credible, that it's much more likely to look to whitewash the governance of a government that keeps holding total positions on many issues that affect the fundamental rights of many citizens with full rights to our autonomous community. We have already overcrowded the tarann of the Left-Hand together as to know that we do not believe them when they make certain proposals and that we always have to be vigilant, because they have a natural tendency to change the democratic framework for a framework that makes them believe, to you and to many of your fellow believers, who are by the way of laws that bind us all. In any case, from the scepticism that forces our experience, some things we would vote for, even though we doubt, and much doubt, that there are genuinely sincere proposals, that we seriously doubt that there are no more than proposals to whitewash their anti-democratic actions in other areas. They want us to speak to urge the Government of the Generality to work with the Commission for the Study of Institutional and Structural Racism which the Parliament has just created. Look, it's still time; the time will come. We do not even know what the Commission's conclusions will be. When the time comes, we'll talk about it. Nor will we give support to the approval of the sanctioning rule of Law 19/2020, because, in the hands of this Government, of the governmental power of the current Government of the Generality, we think that they can make it a partisan. We will not support any macro-enquiry, which is often the preferred vehicle of those who violate the right to the deprivation of the beliefs and political ideas of the people; nor to guarantee the ownership of the people who have migrated in this way, in the abstract, without limit, because we see that there is no guarantee of respect for legality, and, coming from whom you are, we believe that there will be no guarantee in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.31.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, now, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.32.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, it brings us today Republican Left a motion which theoretically speaks, therefore, of anti-racist policies, but which also deals with other aspects. And, for example, he calls, in one of his points, for the reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Code of Conduct for Members, and talks about sexist, racist, homophobic and fascist behaviour. And I think you have already indicated this from other groups: I am very afraid that here will pass the usual, that you are the ones who determine what is macho, racist, homophobic and fascist, and out of there we can no longer talk about anything else. And yesterday we had an example, Mrs. Counselor. I spoke about the images and attitudes that we had seen in Vic after the People's Party had requested permission in time and form to install a tent and the mayor would have denied it, and you, therefore, beyond giving me an answer that seemed to have been taken from Wikipedia, with a definition, denied the greatest: you denied that these behaviors were totalitarian behaviors and not typical of people living in a democratic system in the middle of the 21st century. And, therefore, I'm very afraid that everything you're going to get out of this motion is going to go in this same line. The CUP deputy told you that this looked like an advertising wedge in the department you lead. I would go a little further: besides being an advertising wedge, I think it is also an attempt, to the desperate, to cover up certain speeches, certain attitudes that we are seeing. We have also talked about it..., the attitude of the Department of Education in all cases regarding the twenty-five percent in education and the case of Canet's family. It is totally shameful that the Government has not explicitly condemned the harassment suffered by a five-year-old child. It is shameful that yesterday in the control session you had the opportunity, but you did not, and neither did President Aragonès, to condemn, I insist, those violent and aggressive attitudes that we live in Vic on Saturday. But, in addition, more things have happened. More things have happened, Mrs. Verge. I too have had the opportunity to question you in this very chamber, and neither have we made anything clear. Here, in this motion, there are several points on which we are talking specifically about xenophobia, racism. In point 6, too, we are talking about anti-Gypsyism, which is an amendment which has been tabled by the group of commons and which you have accepted. I would like to remind you of the unfortunate episode that we had to live just a few weeks ago in the famous Bricoheroes program, which is dedicated to insulting everyone and a lot of collectives, and here nobody says anything at all. Not only have we seen speeches and gags – supposedly gags of humor – that are misogynistic, that are transphobic, that are clearly ultranationalist, but also speeches and supposed racist jokes. The last, therefore, with the Gypsy people, where they categorize all the Gypsy people of thieves. I have not yet heard you condemn these supposed gags of humor that are made from this program, from public television. I will read you a fragment that you have written..., a letter that you have addressed to Mrs Llorach from the Fagic, from the Federation of Gypsy Associations of Catalonia, where they say – and I quote textually – "These comments go against the mechanisms that the corporation itself has to ensure non-discriminatory information, and go beyond codes or ethics manuals, and even from the bad taste, when creating humorous expressions within the program. The bloodiest thing for us is the generalization of an entire people, the Gypsy people, and their categorization as thieves. In Catalonia we live approximately one hundred and a thousand gypsy people, who have been accused of thieves for free and dishonest in the program. They also accuse them of doing a form of humor of the last century that is disrespectful to people, based on prejudices and stereotypes that do not help to foster a spirit of coexistence. As you can imagine, I subscribe to points and commas of this letter that the Fagic has addressed to Mrs Llorach after this gag of displeasure, totally unpleasant, which stigmatizes the Gypsy people, which perpetuates the prejudices that exist against the collective of the Gypsy people. And maybe you would be credible if, when these things happen, you took action and didn't come here to try to make us believe that these are humorous programs, that... that, well, that's why I satiate her... You have to be firm, if you really want to be credible on these issues, and not come here to present these motions, which, in the end, are toasts to the sun. That many of the points force us to vote because, of course, it seems to me that they are things that have to be voted for, but that is that they are not credible – they are not credible. And for us, as you will understand, to help you here whitewash all these behaviors that we are seeing that they are racist, xenophobic and that they are also totalitarian, so, what you want me to tell you, it is quite complicated. It's pretty complicated, Counselor. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.33.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.34.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Counselor, good morning. Certainly, we are discussing a motion following the inquiry into the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. Obviously, we will vote in favour of a young woman who is a corroboration, in fact, of the government plan and the consulting lines; a government plan which is our government plan, which is my government's, and therefore we will vote in favour of all points. Let me add some elements of consideration and reflection. In the face of speeches seeking conflict and fleeing the noble sense and the sense responsible for pact and consensus that politics has, some things that this young man says are absolutely necessary and urgent. With the reform of the Rules, which, in the right order, shielded these masclist, racist, homophobs, xenophobs, totalitarians, supremacists, feixists or feixistizers and which go against the fundamental rights and which damage politics. And that the majority of the parliamentary arch, from the anti-feixist pact, as has been said, we are in favour..., and with the hope of radical transformation that the president has been pushing forward since the Bureau. VOX and those flirting with it in a comfortable, comfortable way are the example that take advantage of the democratic system in a perverse way to weaken from within this democratic system and generate radical extremism that the evil one. The ultradreta is established on the latent racism that the colonial heritage of the West has bastit, a structure of social racism that implies dehumanization, colonialism, colonialism. It imposes colonization and coloniality, which means classifying the population. And we will not dispel individual racism, which produces discrimination, stereotypes, intolerance and retrogrades, if we do not recognize, despite our weight, that there is a system that hierarchies people and collectivists and that is situated beyond the dignity of others. And this young man wants to work on this. And, therefore, he's good. It is necessary the motion, it is necessary the work plan of the Commission of Study of Structural Racism, it is necessary the anti-feixist pact. He makes a couple of months, to « Dialegs for interculturality, which organized the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation, Angeles Solanes spoke that identity is not unique, but plural. And Xavier Antich, the flaming future president of Ömnium, philosopher, always speaks that one's identity is not complete without that of the other. Think about the impact of these two axes for the 21st century, and even more so if we add to the cross-cutting perspectives, as the motion expresses and declares. Angeles Solanes also spoke to us about a terminological and linguistic issue. "Tolerance or "we must be more tolerant..., the expression of tolerance, strictly, sometimes has a certain peril, as it denotes that who speaks can come to speak from an excess of hierarchy. Surely the term "equality" is much better; tolerance can denote a certain condescension of the subject with respect to the collection to which we refer. It is very important that this, as the motion says, can be deployed urgently to the equal treatment and non-discrimination law that we modified at the last legislature – and that the Saloua company did so well – because we believe that it is absolutely necessary to deploy its sanctioning regime, the mediation instruments, and to be able to advance in the hope of holding the law that also defends the motion on anti-racism. All right, all right, I'd like to thank all the groups for the pieces they've made, the deal facility, the transaction facility they've made – Najat... All right, all right, Vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.35.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.36.0	Well, first of all, I would like to thank Congresswoman Basha Change, Congresswoman Ferran Pedret, Congresswoman Jessica González, for the contributions you have made to the text. You have submitted papers – some of us have accepted them, others have come to deal with them – which, without any doubt, have improved the text we are voting for. With regard to the other groups that have spoken, I don't think I've lost a minute. It's here. I mean, I think it's over. It's over because we... as he said a few minutes ago, in the anti-racist struggle we need to feel all involved. And this can only be done the following way: to reach out to most political consensus to guarantee human rights, to build a society that prevails in the culture of non-discrimination and to advance towards an anti-racist society that we all want. And for this – to end – we want to honor and remember all those who preceded us in the anti-racist struggle and who worked to achieve progress towards the equality of all people. As the activist Rigoberta Menchú said, the pau is not just the absence of war; while there is poor, while there is racism, discrimination and exclusion, we can hardly get a world of pau. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.37.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna do this noon before he suspends the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of people without homelessness]] [[302-00077/13]] So let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of people without home, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. To expose her, Mrs Beatriz Silva has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor. At the last plenary session, I began the questioning that led to this motion, recalling that a few days earlier a family had died in a fire in the building serving as a home in Tetuan Square – two of the victims were a three-year-old boy and his sister, four months old. Since then we have had to regret the death of a couple who lived in a tent on the banks of the river in Montcada i Reixac, who lost his life intoxicated by the smoke of a firecracker they were trying to warm up with. Just a year earlier, two homeless men had died of cold in Barcelona while sleeping in the open. None of these situations is new or the result of the crisis resulting from the covid-19. The settlement of Montcada has been in existence for over a decade. It is not the only one in Catalonia, nor are people sleeping on the street, in tents or in occupied premises. People who die as a result of sinogarism are not a punctual or isolated fact. They are an unacceptable reality in a rich society like Catalonia that only emerges in political debate when a tragedy occurs. Above all, they are invisible in public policies that depend on the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has completely forgotten them in recent years. It is very significant that the word itself, « sensellarisme, has only appeared once in the thousand pages of the draft budget which this Parliament approved last December. And it was within the heading‘Other social programmes, where the amount and what these resources were intended for was not specified, or if a part of these resources included homeless people, who are always the great ones forgotten. Sinhogarism is a process of deprivation of rights that begins when a person is denied access to housing, and continues with other basic rights, such as access to health, work, physical integrity or living in society. This motion seeks to advance those urgent measures that have been on the waiting list for years to address the most extreme form of poverty and social exclusion that exists in our society and that it cannot continue to wait; measures that are demanded by the entities that care for these people, but also by the municipalities, that try to give an answer with the means they have, that are totally insufficient. This motion also calls for recognition that the situation of the homeless and, in particular, the homeless cannot continue to be forgotten, that it is the responsibility of the Government to respond to the needs of these people and that it is recognized that in recent years neither the material nor the human resources necessary to combat it have been allocated. Last week, the social rights advisor assured several times in an interview on TV3, referring to the Montcada tragedy, that this was a problem of the municipalities and that the role of the Government was simply to give support. We don't agree. Homeless persons are the responsibility of the Government, the Departments of Housing, Social Rights, Health, Equality, Justice, which have to lead the construction of public housing, deploy accompanying resources, programmes and devices specific to women, for young people, and include in the budgets resources to implement, for example, the Housing First model. In this interview, councillor, you also recognized that, despite the death of two people in Montcada, your councillor had not contacted the city council, despite the fact that it had been several days. From the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group we believe this cannot happen. That is why this motion proposes as a first step the creation of a coordination table between the Generalitat and the municipalities so that there is not only proper coordination, but that the Government assumes its responsibilities. We want to immediately activate Article 7.3 of guaranteed income of citizenship, a measure that the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group promoted in 2018 so that homeless people can benefit from this provision with a report of social services and that we do not understand why so far it has not become effective. We also do not understand why the comprehensive strategy of dealing with sinogarism has been waiting since 2016 in a drawer, despite the fact that the governments that have happened since then have announced two or three times their imminent approval, which would have to be something urgent in times of crisis. It should also be the case that families with minors in a situation of severe poverty, such as the one who died in Tetuán Square, have access to guaranteed income from citizenship and to those benefits that enable them to meet their essential needs. Journalist and activist Emmanuel Onapa recently recalled in Tribune magazine that synhogarism is not an inexorable fact, it is a political option that we adopt when we decide not to invest in the public policies necessary to address a problem that begins with the lack of housing, but that continues with the violation of other fundamental rights, such as access to health, employment, accompanying policies, but also the right to life. We believe that Catalonia cannot allow synhogarism to remain on the waiting list and that announcements can only be made when a tragedy occurs. It cannot be a political option to deprive thousands and thousands of people of the most basic rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.39.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.40.0	Thank you, President. The problem of sensillarism is a global problem with local expression and is affecting many European cities. And you see, from our point of view, with three main aspects: housing, job insecurity and foreign law. The lack of suitable housing, the extraction of renders from the most impoverished groups of the population by part of the housing market, the growing job insecurity... These are aspects that affect the theme of sensillarism, and the motion that we are debating now includes interesting proposals in these two first areas. But we insist, from In Comú Pueblo, that we should not fail to see how the foreign law leaves many people in the street. And this last aspect gives me little to comment that, indeed, from our group we have presented an issue of addition to the proposed group and that it has not been accepted. And the message proposed that the Parliament of Catalonia found – obro comets – "the violation of the right to control that suffer people who are not allowed to prove domicile fixed in certain municipalities of Catalonia, with the consequences in terms of access to services and resources that this fact implies. Because, as far as I'm concerned, we'll vote in favour of the majority..., to the totality of the motion, in fact, we're not surprised that the Socialist Party is filling its mouth and now wants to put up the fight against sensellarism, when many of its municipalities are not registering with people who don't have a fixed home. This Tuesday the majority of parliamentary groups of this chamber have registered a proposed law that have worked various entities and institutions coordinated for the professor Antoni Milian. And it seems to us that this proposal, as a mark of a legislative framework that obliges and determines the actions of public administrations at various levels to guarantee the rights of people without law and to eradicate this problem in its most chronic phase. From In Comú We can, of course, all support this legislative process. In this case, it is not just a support of empty words, it is not a declaration of intent; it is a support supported by the action of the Tenença de Drets Socials de l'Ajuntament de Barcelona, which in recent years has not only been a pioneer in promoting landownership without fixed domicile, but has also doubled the pressure on care actions for people without a home. But here... And we will continue to do so, since the Barcelona Assembly, but we need other municipalities to push this car as well and we need a generality to lead this process. Because, if not, what is done is, for example, what happens..., from Santa Coloma, which is a municipality that governs the PSC and where people without fixed domicile do not control themselves, is generated an effect of expulsion to Barcelona, and its policy of sensellarism is basically to send people to Barcelona. And so we don't have a metropolitan and Catalan perspective on sensellarism. So, what we've had – and that's why they didn't accept us – is also a generality, for another band, that's talking about a strategy against sensellarism to comprehensively address sensellarism. And let's celebrate that, in fact, a few months ago there was a game to start working there. That can't wait any longer, because it's been a long time. And here, it counts, too, because severe residential exclusion, in this case, can provide different solutions: providing housing, which is a definitive solution, or providing accommodation, which is an interim solution, right? And as this health crisis unfolds – and we have seen it – labour insecurity will have dissipated. Access to housing will continue to be impossible for people without access to housing, and the number of people sentenced to administrative irregularities will not be reduced either. Then, here, the tempt to build assistanceist responses will take more strength than ever. I, it counts, that a person staying in an emergency shelter continues to feel a person without learning. Without making a radical turn in housing policies and guaranteeing yields and modifying and expanding, as we have said from In Comú Puem, why are they reaching more people, right? And without being aware that the foreign law takes thousands of people to the streets, without all this, the social services and entities will continue to overflow and we will be trying to stop a bleeding with strokes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.41.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Consellera, deputy Silva... In this young man we have worked to be able to reach agreements and to be able to work together – also with the deputy Viña – to be able to reach an agreement that, in this case, brings together the whole set of points that are dealt with in this young woman, which is practically everything. Because we have to bear in mind that senselessness is one of the problems that affects our society. It is a problem that does not only affect homeless people, but also people who, as they say, can live in naus, in barracks, in infra-habitats. Therefore, it is a problem that is very present in society, many times invisible and many times also present unevenly within the territory, but present within the territory. We have been working on this subject for many years from various spheres and from various administrations, and this has been possible because there has been a joint effort in the plenary of Sensellarism for years to be able to work with the strategy and that culminated this November in the approval of the march of action for the approach of Sensellarism; an agreement in this plenary of Sensellarism that brings us, in this case, a _mark of action that will be approved by the Government of the Generality in the coming weeks. And what does the action mark do? What it does is: it establishes the bases and the methodology of work between different administrations, and concrete models of attention that guarantee the intervention of the territory to people who are not alone. A task that involves ensuring the right to housing for people without the right to housing, but also the right to social and educational care and work; a special attention to people who suffer from it; the right to health and the health system; awareness of sensitivism, but also a bet to work for the eradication of apophobics, which is the cause of poverty. This is a holistic job, a global job, that affects everything around sensellarism. And how will governance manage all this? There is a governance, in this case, that is planned in a plenary of which everyone in form: the Government of Catalonia – with Social Rights, Salut, Interior, Justicia, Igualtat, Treball –, the local world, the municipalist entities and the entities of the third sector, to whom we have to thank and recognize all the work that has been done at the length of the years, not only to put the topic on the table and claim the legal measures, as was commented on in this proposal of the law, but also direct attention to people, which shows that the model of collaboration, in this case, published with entities, with the Government and with administrations is a model of success. And the things that we have to deal with are the things that all administrations put on the table: the assemblies, the Generality, but also the deputies and the group of social entities, which also raise a lot of resources to make it possible. But we have one important one, which is the program contract. And here I'd like to congratulate the councilwoman, because at the end of the year she reached agreement with the municipal authorities on the new program contract. A program contract that, in its file 48, what it does is recognize for the first time – now yes – a basic service: attention to sensillarism. And this is precisely what I include as tasks of the Government and the Generality to be able to work with local plans to address sensillarism, to have a professional referent that makes it possible, global attention – it means thinking about all the resources that affect the person – case managers to be able to work in a coordinated way, and the specificity also for young people and women, that the deputy makes a lot of reference in her young lady. And that's that year already directly for the municipality of more than a hundred and a thousand inhabitants, with the vision of being able to reach more than fifty and a thousand in the next few years. And, to the band of all this work in a collaborative way with the gatherings with file 48, but also with the programs that there are in the band – the programs Reallotgem, the Sostre 360, those that affect the aids of logger –..., this also involves a work around the sensellarism, but I do not want to leave the guaranteed income of citizenship, which the deputy makes a lot of reference to it. The guaranteed income of citizenship is a program that is active in the cent_per_cent and that, in this case, contemplates that there are extraordinary situations, such as the imminence of denunciations, habitat losses, the risk to minors and other persons in similar situations that may also be the object of the guaranteed income of citizenship. Therefore, we have the performance mark approved in plenary and in the government; we have the premise to do it; we have the program contract approved, and therefore, starting to work with the joints, in this case, more than a hundred_ thousand with the concrete file and with the rest. We have the political compromise to make it possible. We'll work together all folds to make it possible. This is the compromise of all folds. We will certainly not get out of it, but we will certainly, with all these tools, move forward, and move forward favorably. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.43.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana, has the word, now, the deputy lady Maria Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.44.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies, deputies, sensillarism is, without doubt, the most extreme form of vulnerability and social exclusion of our society. When we talk about sensellarism, we talk about a fact, not a new or sporadic phenomenon in time; a social problem that we live in great measure in metropolitan cities and that, unfortunately, sometimes seems like a latent social problem. While sensellarism has gained more prominence in the political agenda, and therefore more visibility, that, obviously, is not enough. Now more than ever, there has also been evidence of the negative effects of the covid-19 pandemic, in terms of housing, on being at the side of people, and of those who have often not found themselves with the support they expected from public policies in our country, as well as that there have been different social entities that have faced this situation in a short space of time. Therefore, it is necessary to put in value the task of these entities, and to put in value so much that they have done so far as they are currently doing, and to please them -to do so. Because our goal must not be to manage sensillarism, it must be to eradicate it. And to eradicate it, because this is possible, it has to be a priority of our social policies. Let's be clear, work with the tools we already have. We have some tools that have already come from previous legislatures and that have already begun to implement the Lower Councillor and the Homrani Councillor, and that are now continuing to implement since the Councillor's office, and I can strengthen them. I'll give you some examples. The guaranteed income of citizenship allows people who are at risk of imminent social exclusion to be welcomed, and therefore people who do not have a home. Also implemented is « Housing first in some municipalities– Girona, Lleida, Barcelona –, an innovative methodology that provides immediate or short term housing without requiring work expected to people who currently find themselves without learning in a chronic way. It is also possible to give continuity to the Sostre 360o project, accompanying young vulnerable majors of age who are found to be homeless, and so it is because the program contract is now being provided with resources. Last November – Congressman Saldoni was already commenting on it – the march of action was approved for the approach of Sensellarism in Catalonia, pending approval by the Government. And this framework already provides for different coordination areas, not only integrated for administrations, but also integrated for third-sector entities. If there is also a specific approach with a gender perspective, because unfortunately, as is also the case in other situations, women are the hidden face of sensillarism. And to make them visible, to also give a woman's visit in this fight. We are aware that housing is not a reward linked to a work plan, that providing a decent base for all the people of the country is an obvious and unquestionable duty that is not to be negotiated and where responsibility lies, without doubt, in the first instance in public policies. For this reason, in the last months of the Republican Left it has worked to consolidate and pull forward, despite the considerations presented, the anti-denomination law, measures that represent a brave bet and that will give the necessary support to those people who are at risk of losing their habitat. And you don't just have to work with these tools that we already have, they don't keep up with new ones. And that is why we have firmly collected the register of the new law of transitory and urgent measures to deal with and eradicate sensillarism, a law driven by different entities and institutions of the social sector to which we greatly appreciate their work, dedication and involvement. From some social and republican justice values, we want to express that this law is not only necessary, but also proposes new formulas to attend to this collection that is in a situation of extreme vulnerability. By the end of the day, I would also like to thank him for accepting the papers we have proposed to him. They were more likely to be non-contained. At one point we couldn't agree, but at the other we did. Therefore, we also thank you that you have incorporated the message that we proposed to you, in addition, speaking precisely of this law that we presented last Tuesday. We thought it was important for you not to be aware in this Chamber today, that this law has come forward and that we work and that we all commit ourselves to taking it forward. Therefore, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we will continue to work for social justice, to put people at the center of our policies. And, obviously, we will always find it, when your proposals are vague for this line. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.45.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, it has the word, now, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, Members of Parliament, Counsellor... I would like to begin this intervention by offering our remembrance and prayers to the two homeless people who lost their lives a few weeks ago in Montcada i Reixac – by the way, whose mayor is Podemos. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSC is presenting us today with a motion on the situation of the homeless in Catalonia. Yes, the same sectarian PSC that has consistently voted against all the social policies that our parliamentary group has put forward and that has signed, together with the separatists, communists and anti-systems, a ridiculous and childish anti-democratic pact against VOX that represents a lack of respect for hundreds of thousands of Catalans. Yes, the same Socialist Party that prioritizes ideological spending and waste at national level above the material needs of the Spaniards. Yes, the same Socialist Party that collaborates on the social emergency disaster that we live in Catalonia. Finally, what can we expect from a socialist party that is able to negotiate quota demands in Catalan in Netflix and HBO while in Catalonia we have 5,777 people living on the street and 4,417 living in hostels? The credibility of the PSC in defending social issues is the same as that of Esquerra or that of the UPC in defending Catalan workers, i.e. none. Gentlemen of the PSC, when it comes to solving a problem, the smart thing is to go to the structural causes and close to the problem. The causes of this problem I will explain to you in three things. It is estimated that in the last six years there has been an increase of eighty_per_cent of people malliving in the streets of Catalonia: from ten_thousand in 2016, now, according to Caritas data, there are eighteen_thousand. It is no coincidence, it is a consequence of separatist policies. Second, there are thousands of people in their idyllic Catalonia malliving on the street, in shelters and in barracks, while the Government of the Generalitat continues to spend 243_millions on TV3, 92_millions on gender bars, almost 40_millions on institutional propaganda, more than 50_millions on green policies, and could follow the whole intervention. You, gentlemen of the PSC, are participants and accomplices by action or omission. Third, they squander money in indoctrination – its point 11 – the introduction of a gender perspective in policies to eradicate sinogarism. Its delirium reaches the point of considering that women's living conditions are more valuable than those of a man. Did they know that most homeless people are men? It is estimated at ninety_per_cent of men, compared to ten_per_cent of women. From our parliamentary group we have registered an amendment to eradicate this unfair discrimination that they propose towards the elderly, children and men. This is a motion that does not address the causes of the problem. From our group, we will only vote in favour of the measures that show reality. We will vote 'no to ideologicals, which do not provide solutions. Look, it is essential to put in place a comprehensive strategy for dealing with Sinogarism that does not simply include paydays or subsidies, but rather tackles the problems that many of these people have in getting into society and the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, direct economic assistance is fine, but it does not solve problems. Points 6 and 7 of this motion propose to deepen chronic assistanceism without equipping the cane to fish for the people who need it most. It is also a matter of justice to give priority to national citizens living in this situation. We lack key measures such as improving the socio-health and psychological care of these people, specific measures of job reintegration and vocational training, measures of socio-affective support; what has been being focused on the real problems of the homeless, and not on the ideological alienations to which we are accustomed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the value and integrity of a society is measured by how the most vulnerable people are treated. The same goes for politicians, take note. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.47.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.48.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, counsel... well, we're in front of a young man who's very hard to vote against. Who is not in favour of eradicating sensellarism, this structural shacra that puts into evidence the failures of a neoliberal economic system that seeks the enrichment of a minority at the expense of the impoverishment of the majority? Who is against eradicating this chakra that eats us in every street, in every village, when we see that we have people, veins and veins, living in subhuman conditions? But let me say – it is essential to do so – that, even though we are voting mostly for this young man, bearing in mind that you are a party that defends the neoliberal economic model and is a party that has held and has responsibilities for government in many spheres, it is essential for us to ask some questions, because this young man, for us, is a political hypocrisy exercise. And say political hypocrisy because it is within the territory that there are many mayors and mayors who today continue to deprive the right of control of people who do not have a fixed domicile and are making it very difficult for many people without a home. That's what the syndic backs up in his reports – the Member of Comú Podema said now – and it's that, moreover, you have refused to accept the message that incorporated the stamping point into this motion. Miri..., suddenly, isn't it? So much for the analysis of the third sector entities in their Barcelona election program of past municipalities. You consider, you have the honor – the sad honor – to share with the People's Party and with Mr Valls' party to be the only party that, in its analysis of its electoral proposals, has the qualification of proposals explicitly contrary to the rights of people without limits. And they have a mayor like the current mayor of Badalona, who, before the drama of the denunciation of the other day, fifteen days ago, to the ship of the Gorg, a ship that also was..., the same one that was already the object of a fire with five dead victims and that now, another time, has suffered an expulsion to the street without alternative..., after they have been able to minimize it, but the statements made by his mayor of the PSC in re – in re – are different from the statements made by the corrupt populist of the high-ranking dreets of Badalona. Therefore, the questions are the following. First of all, on this issue of landownership, why did they get away with it? Next. You're not about foreign law. And we ask ourselves... we have doubts in point 7, because, of course, you're talking about making modifications; but what changes? They don't talk about the foreign law or about the law of labor reform, which is... the issue of wages is one of the main causes of the poor that lead to not having to cry. And we'd like to know exactly at this point 7 what reforms they're talking about when they say they're going to make these changes that you're proposing. Because I remind you that we have 5,700 homeless people, 5,400 who don't have to go to and live in shelters and shelters – we're talking about almost 12 thousand people – 25,000 without safe housing and 22,600 in inadequate homes. This problem of sensellarism is a deeply structural problem that has to do with deep policies relating to the right to housing, the right to a decent wage, the right not to suffer institutional racism – such as the foreign law – and the right to de facto control, because it is the door to most rights. So, we need answers that respect why you have omitted these issues from the motion, and specifically on point 7, to hear this general analysis that you are making of changes without specifying to which standards, to which laws, to what they are referring, because we can assess whether it is really a point that we can gather. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.49.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, now, the deputy Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.50.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... On the night of May 14, 2020 the Arrels Foundation conducted a census of homeless people in the city of Barcelona. A total of 1,239 people were counted in a street situation in full alarm, in full confinement. However, during this state of alarm, various resources were created to accommodate these people during the confinement, such as the opening of hotels, the conversion of tourist accommodation to accommodation for homeless people – such as Homeless Entrepreneur – or the opening of the pavilion of the Fira de Barcelona to accommodate homeless people. The health, economic and social crisis caused by the emergence of the covid has revealed the weaknesses of our social services system, but also that the coordinated action of different administrations, entities and individuals can give correct and adequate response to these people. The end of the confinement should not have led to a setback in this progress, if the administrations had worked together to prevent these people from returning to the streets, and if, in addition to guaranteeing them accommodation, they could also have access to social and labour integration programmes, which are essential in this whole strategy. Because the typology of people who are affected by these situations is very broad, and the situation in which they find themselves is practically..., difficult to catalogue or narrow down. It is very broad: from people who are right now..., vulnerable, who can be in reception centers, for example, in companies or institutions, people without resources in infra-habilitants, chabolism, mass housing, etc.. That is why we – and here we are going to try to respond to this motion with proposals from Ciutadans that we have defended during these last two legislatures –..., what do we propose? One – important – let there be a count, let us really know how many people are homeless, who are in a situation of sinogarism in Catalonia, and let that count be done by the Government, let it be done, in this case, by the Generalitat, and let it be periodic. The data..., many times in the Social Affairs Committee we have talked about the data, that we lack data, that we do not update the data on the reality of vulnerability that exists in Catalonia. That is the first of the proposals that we believe need to be maintained. And so... if we don't know the reality, we won't be able to deal with it properly. Strengthening the housing first model is important throughout Catalonia, but also the housing led model, which in the end is to offer not only housing to those who are on the street, in that street situation, but also to those who are accompanied in this reintegration or in that possible way of access again to what they have often lost or what they want to have. Therefore, the strategy of 'Housing led' I think is very important, in this case. And here we find ourselves with problems – and then we have a motion about young people – of extolled young people who find themselves in that situation, who appear..., or disappear, they stop being on the floors, in the guardianship centers of the Generalitat and do not have the resources to access a home. Therefore, it is important not only..., it seems that adults or certain ages have this situation of sinogarism, but there are also many young people who find themselves in this situation, especially from extolled floors. We believe that street access teams, street assistance teams, especially on mental health issues, which is another of the problems faced by homeless people, should be strengthened, and collaboration with companies should also be promoted by promoting social, corporate responsibility for homeless people, as well as awareness-raising programmes to companies in productive sectors that may be adequate to increase the recruitment of homeless people. And also, as a last point – and I think it has been said here – something very simple. We talked about a new bill. We believe that..., we agree, and, in fact, we have signed it and we are going to try to adapt it to reality and that it is as effective as possible, but we must comply with what has already been approved, the strategies already approved. We must therefore ensure that the guaranteed income of citizenship is properly and correctly applied to these people. If we legislate and then we don't implement what we legislate, it's no use at all. With all this – and I am not going to review the motion, because I wanted to explain the proposals of Citizens first –, as I advance that we will vote yes to the whole motion submitted by the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.51.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.52.0	Thank you, President. I do this from the escho, in a very telematic way, to show that we, from our group, will give practical support to the totality of the points of this young man. In addition, it coincides with this bill that we registered this same week, a proposal that is driven by the academic world, also by entities working on the issue of people without home, and that we have subscribed, therefore, to various groups of this chamber. It seems to us that this young man is complementary to this bill. And, therefore, as he advanced to the heart of the intervention, we would give support to it in its total..., in its majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.53.0	Well, thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Beatriz Silva's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.54.0	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank all the groups that have tabled amendments. There are some that we have not accepted, because... well, obviously we do not agree to discriminate particularly vulnerable groups. In other cases we have not accepted them because, although we agree on the substance, we believe that it is a matter that should regulate the law on sensellarisme that entered the Parliament this week, and we believe that this law, in contrast to the lack of public policies in recent years, represents a giant step to make the situation visible, but that it will also make it possible to make visible a situation that we have to start talking about. In the case of the amendments tabled by the groups of the Government, I would like to say that I am particularly grateful for the willingness of Mr David Saldoni, who has made a great effort to reach agreements. We have reached a compromise, we have accepted two amendments. And we are committed that most of the points it contains will be approved, and we therefore appreciate this support. We have not agreed on any issue, but I also want to say that, if public policies are to begin to be deployed in the coming months to deal seriously with sinogarism, I will be the first person to recognize it. To Mrs Sabater, to say that I do not understand why they have not tabled amendments proposing all these issues that you have raised here, because we could have valued and incorporated them, in some cases – some in which we would have agreed. But these two_minutes are to answer the groups that have tabled amendments. Sinhogarism is a phenomenon directly attributable to government policies or, rather, to the lack of such policies. And, as with covid-19, it does not affect people who belong to discriminated groups or groups in the same way as the rest of the population, or people who are migrated or those who are not, because the economic conditions of pre-existing life and social origin are decisive for a person to end up in the street or in a tent. All these issues have to be part of this debate, and we therefore hope that this motion will be adopted today. And we thank those who have expressed their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.55.0	All right. So, the debate is over, and so are the reports that we will proceed to the vote before the adjournment of the session, when it is over, at midday. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the young woman]] [[302-00078/13]] The twenty-first point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the young woman, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr David Gonzalez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.56.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, will advise here today, very good morning to all of you. We are talking again, once again, to the Parliament of Catalonia, about the situation experienced by the young Catalan woman. And from the Socialists and Unions Group we present a battery of proposals that we think can be used to improve the quality of life of young people and that, in our opinion, can be widely shared and voted in favour of the vast majority of the groups that are represented here. The young priorities of our group know them perfectly, because we have done enough to repeat them once again to another: occupation, emancipation and prevention and detection in the field of young mental health. The other day the counselor here, Violant Cervera, to the Youth Policy Commission, announced the three great priorities they have from their advice to do work during this term, which were work, home and future. If we go beyond the criticism we have already expressed to the Youth Policy Committee because of the fact that its work plan means that it was very late – the explanations – and also the suspicions that there are among the three great priorities that we have marked and that you have now made, we must tell you, Madam Councillor, with all the sincerity and all the confidence of the world, that if you want to achieve agreements and pacts on these issues, you will be at your side or at the forefront of all the demands towards this collection. Now, we don't want to wait any longer, we can't wait any longer. And for this reason we are today presenting the following proposals and asking all parliamentary groups for their support. First of all, we want to ensure accessibility to post-compulsory studies for all. This is why we ask for a reduction in taxes at the time of admission to vocational training or university degrees. We must remember, however, that we are the autonomous community with the most university priests in all of Spain. Secondly, we call for the promotion of policies of employment and social inclusion which are specifically targeted at those who have the most difficulty in employment, especially the Youth Guarantee programme, which has to work correctly in the age range between seven and twenty-four years. In the area of emancipation we have three proposals, and we remember that we still have the lowest emancipation rate in the next century. That's why we want to guarantee help programs for the lodger in the same line that he has already presented and in which the Government of Spain is already working. We also want to shield a small percentage of a twenty-i-five_per_cent of the official protective habitat reserved for young people, and a measure like this was recorded by us in this case last week. The councillor to the Youth Policy Committee last week said that she agreed and that she also agreed to the deadline. Finally, in the area of emancipation we also propose to increase the bonus of the young loguer on the IRPF, moving from the current deu_per_cent to thirty_per_cent, and allowing it to continue until a period of thirty-five years that can be asked for this help. In the field of culture, we want to guarantee access to culture by adopting measures designed to encourage cultural consumption in the same way that the Government of Spain has recently announced, with the young cultural subscription. We also call for urgent, social and psychological assistance to combat the plight of the unaccompanied minor immigrants in an irregular administrative situation who arrived in Catalonia in the last few months. And two very concrete measures. One in the field of mobility, because we think that mobility is also an essential theme for young people and we want better, more affordable and sustainable percent mobility. We have reached an agreement with the two groups of the Government to achieve this year's completion of the T-young enlargement studies up to 30 years and to achieve their implementation from 2023 onwards. And finally, for a question of the future, in the field of prevention and detection of young mental health, concretely in the programs related to behavioral addiction problems, we have added all efforts to provide nine measures, specific actions and possible campaigns for the deployment of the drug plan and behavioral addictions. This is a summary of the initiatives that we are proposing today from the Socialist Group and Units to advance. We have accepted seven items, from three different political formations of this chamber. Our group – in the same way that all of us here think, surely – we think that the proposals we make are the best of all, but obviously, until all of them have room for improvement, and we are also very aware that they are not the only valid options. The young people's representatives, the students or the student and labour unions and, obviously, the youth political organisations, such as the Socialist Youth of Catalonia, have many proposals to do and many things to say. And we hope to be able to discuss it in this chamber, very much so, in the monographic debate – which remains pending – of the young woman and who we carry waiting almost four months. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.57.0	Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.58.0	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Socialist Party for presenting this motion. But I wanted to start with this first reflection, which I think is important, on Mr González: I think we have done or have seen these motions pass – at least, I – in the last few legislatures, one time and another, and we have never just managed to implement all the measures that are being adopted. And this is evidence, because the situation of youth policies has not improved. These governments in Catalonia have failed... the last governments in Catalonia have failed to change the situation in which young people find themselves. And the diagnosis and the reality are obvious. The data are worrying: with a youth employment rate of forty-four_per_cent; basically devoted to the service– a seventy-nine_per_cent of young people are dedicated to this sector of service– ; a temporary contract, a time of fifty-three_per_cent, with an increase, the last years, of a new _per_cent of this time; with an emancipation rate of the split_per_cent– of the split_per_cent only – with a, say, increased denial, which is the eighth half-year resulting in decrease. So, we have... I think there's a reality, and it's that policies and everything we debate here, everything we bring to this Parliament is not implemented. And this, I fear very much – and I say it many times to the Social Rights Commission – that it will not be implemented either. No, I'm sorry, yes, I know the debate will certainly be interesting and everyone will make some proposals. We will support these proposals, as we have supported other proposals on youth in recent years – we have made proposals on youth, also, we, the last years – they have approved, but unfortunately they will not be done. And welcome to this monogram ple of youth, because we believe it is one of the great problems we have encountered, especially after the pandemic crisis we have experienced. A first topic that you bring here, to this young man, is university, training, access to this young man's training. We may have one of the best generations of our history. Sometimes we don't see this, and I think that... better prepared and sure they can easily access, they should be able to easily access the occupation, the fabric of Catalan production. But it doesn't. So, yes, we can and we can support it, but we believe that the problem is often in another place. For us, it is basic that employment policies are effective. In this case, I don't think they did. We have not succeeded; neither here has the People's Party Government nor the Government, nor the PSOE. It has not been achieved at national level and neither have the Catalan governments succeeded in operating the promotion programmes of this occupation nor has the Youth Guarantee been properly implemented. In fact, we have always been very much in favour of proper and adequate labour reform, where this one contract that we defend remains indefinite– this one indefinite contract– accompanied by what we always call the ‘Austrian word'. These measures, the day they are implemented, will surely be able to change a good part – a good part – of the problems of access to employment; that they are the most painful taxes in Europe. Therefore, something has not been done well, or has not been done well at national or autonomous level. About habitating. You talk... because I think occupation and housing are the hardest problems. You're talking about this twenty-five percent. We obviously support what you're doing, but we do ask – and we've done it with the reviews – so let's know what..., or how many habitats will actually be made in the next few years and dedicated to young people. We propose – and we have put it on the program – to also help in things as simple as bail payment when a young person wants to hire or get to a logger, or even help pay for the entrance of the purchase of a habitation. I think it's feasible and I think we should be able to implement it. So is the fact that there is an emancipation income; that it already exists, in fact, to other countries. And, finally, some more things than you... I don't have much time, but I think there's at least a point I'd like to do quickly. It's when it talks – which is very significant – about what is being done or not being done in Catalonia. « Continue to drive the progressive functioning – point 9 –" of the T-Mobility. This was done with the governing parties. It's irony. How many years are they wearing? How many years have we been driving the progressive functioning of T-Mobility? This is what happens in Catalonia: we do, we approve, we propose things that are not implemented and never implemented. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.59.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.60.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, allow me to begin this intervention with special emphasis on the beginning of 2022, the European Year of Youth, but also the year of the young Catalan girl, because she will celebrate her convention on March 1st, to put in knowledge the situation of young people in our country and also to mark this national youth plan, followed by the monogramme ple and the new law of youth. Today we are debating this question, the motion presented for the Socialist Group, which reflects, without any doubt, this cross-sectional view of youth policies. But, in this sense, from Juntas to Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana we wanted to be purposeful and present papers to all points resolved to improve the initial text. And going into the detail of the question, I would like to stop myself, in the first place, in one of the most important aspects and that we have demanded day after day in this Parliament, as is knowledge, as is the compromise to reduce university taxes; to do so in a progressive way, without distinguishing the type of study, and to achieve the equipping of masters and degrees, which is a reality. But it is also a duty to respect, as you know, and not to implement the decision that is taken in the framework of the popular legislative initiative on the law of universities that is currently being processed by Parliament, and subsequently presenting the decree of price, on behalf of the Government, to course 22-23. Also, it is also an objective, within the knowledge society in which we want to advance, to bet on professional training and, in concrete terms, on dual vocational training. You're cool. And to get all the young people to have absolute access, also contributing to these needs of the production and business fabric of the territory, we do not forget. And this society of knowledge must advance in its fullness for the occupation, to ensure the full occupation of our young people in the country. But look, a few days ago we felt headlines of some diaries about the Caritas report saying that the pandemic left half a million more young poor people in Spain and no opportunities. And it seems that this is not the case with some, that it costs them to recognize the structural problems of two crises that we are experiencing, and obviously also the fiscal policy that may belong to the Spanish State. Because before the inefficiency of the State, Junts continues to bet on better social policy, which is occupation, and to do so through the youth unemployment plan, through programs such as Youth Guarantee or also the attraction of investments in our country. In fact, you remember that Catalonia is currently located as the main technological talent attraction hub in southern Europe. I, by the way, we have deures. We share the challenge of ending youth precariousness and it is a first step, I think, to do so with the increase in minimum wage, but also with labour reform, truly integrating measures that end with temporary contracts as has not been done so far. Or change it to the new proposal for quotas for self-government, which also offends young people and entrepreneurs. And, obviously, this knowledge society, which must thrive with full employment, must also guarantee vital housing projects. And before the devastating data that place youth emancipation in 15.5_per_cent and feel purpose, as we say, the department has presented measures to end depopulation, but also for this creation of new public housing that allows and reserves the minimum of twenty-five_per_cent to young people until thirty-five years in the first assignment. In this sense, before the lessons, again, of the last days of the PSOE with the already known social good for the lloger, that does not concretely transfer to the autonomous communities, that it does not contemplate territorial criteria or the weighting of the cost of the urban areas, but it is more than just the '1,7_per_cent of the young people of the State', it is unacceptable that today the improvement of the young lloger on the IRPF in Catalonia has increased, when only the autonomic tram has remained the last years and has not been able to his Government to the Spanish State, the most progressive in history, to recover the state deduction that was imposed by the Rajoy Government. And although we do not have as much time as we would like today to put up with youth policies as we would like to claim two very concrete points. Claiming, in addition, history of youth associationism and, in concrete terms, of the JNC. In the first place is to implement the T-Young until the thirty years of the next 2023 and, of course, the deployment of the drug plan and additions to combat the consequences of this harsh crisis in the matter of mental health. And, finally, President, I would like to add a further reflection. Because often, like young people, we hear, therefore, that young people are the future. And it's true, but to guarantee this future horse that we begin by guaranteeing its, our present. Therefore, I ask all of you and invite you to join the Catalonia of yes, of yes to the opportunities for the young. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.61.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is the return, now, of the deputy of the Republican Left Group, Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.62.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies the deputies. We're dealing with a young man's situation today. In general, the proposals are widely shared, contemplated, as has already been said, in the governing agreements, in the electoral programme of the young republic. We have explained..., the company of Junts has explained a little, therefore, the different points and, therefore, we subscribe that whenever it is about young people to make generational pinya, maximize cooperation and efforts. And that is why, in this sense, we will vote in favour of most of the points. And our papers were also in this direction: as long as we remember, we do it well; we do it all and all, right? And, therefore, most of the items that have been rejected are also being rejected in this line: if we have these agreements, if we have these consensuses, we also do so in those meetings governed by the Socialists; we exercise them also in the Congress of Deputies and the Spanish Government. Surely it would be the best way to give response to this youthful emergence that is well palpable. Moving on to comment on the different questions. We are in general in agreement, as we have already said; so much so that we hope that the ILP of universities will vote in favour of the proposals proposed by the committee for the promotion, that they go beyond what you have marked, rather than following the line of the general press conference of the Spanish State. That's to say, if we agree that we should lower these prices and that this is better for young people, then we go beyond the limits that the State marks. So much so that it is hard for us to ignore the opportunity to repeal labour reform, we have skills to do so, despite the fact that here we have points on the strengthening of vocational training and the occupation of young people. Pressing there too, we have the opportunity to dignify practices, both to professional training and to universities, from a decent remuneration and contract. They stand on the side of young people's labour rights, life security and health for young people, and not another time on the side of the IBEX and, ultimately, the essence of the reform of the People's Party. So much so that we expect you to say, together with Rubí, that he is laying the piles and no longer cleaning up the young people who migrate only when he sees the election campaign. Or all of your gatherings, who master the people. The report of the Syndic de Greuges del Febrer del 21 makes it come up with complaints respecting the registration of gatherings like Martorell, Mataró, the Prat de Llobregat, the Hospitallet de Llobregat, Cornellà. Your government has four of these. So much so that in housing we encourage you to ask the Spanish Government why it was opposed to the Sareb Buildings becoming public property, disabling an opportunity to increase the public housing park and, in the alternative, proposing to release, that is, re-spending public money on buildings that we had already rescued with the money of all. While in Catalonia we push with social consensus for the right to housing brave and pioneering laws, the Spanish government continues to challenge the law of regulation of the rendering of the logger, making smoke policies like the young good and law of the skein to the Catalan reality. So much we agree to promote access to culture that this government devotes the highest part of history to the presupposition of Culture, advancing to two per cent, and can devote up to two hundred euros per person living in culture. So much we agree that, in fact, we have come to this deal with the expansion of T-Young to thirty, as we have already seen, very important for the territorial balance of young people. And, therefore, from here we also ask you to help us in the demand for a decent investment in the infrastructure that so many young people use in our country every day for their daily life. As in the measures against addictions and the online game, we regret that the PSOE voted against Esquerra's proposal to Congress to push taxes to the online game, which, in change, here we do work hand in hand in this young man. We expect, therefore, your support to end with the specific tax regime of operators of these practices based in Ceuta and Melilla. In short, we appreciate the good will in the youth; we share the general lines; we will always be careful to improve the lives of young people. Now, the message is clear: if here we have a great diversity of forces that we agree upon when it comes to dealing with young people's problems and, in change, to the institutions of the State repeatedly these consensuss are not or are out of step, the only opportunity for opportunities and dignity for the Catalan youth is said to be independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.63.0	After the defense of the papers, then has the word, to fix the position, the deputy Alberto Tarradas, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating a motion by the Socialist Party that seeks to address the situation of young people in Catalonia, the same Socialist Party that lacks a real alternative for young people and mortgages their future. They try to amend their harmful management at national level with a motion in the Catalan Parliament full of generalities and with a clear accent progress. But you know? They don't cheat on anyone anymore. And since VOX we will continue to denounce the abandonment to which they have been subjecting to Catalan and Spanish youth for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, today's young people face great challenges, but they can all be summed up in one sentence: the lack of expectations and hope. And it is that the superfluous spending and the separatist waste and the incessant submission of youth to progressive indoctrination has built in Catalonia a moral, cultural and labor ecosystem that prevents young Catalans from looking to the future with good prospects and confidence. Look, as it cannot be otherwise, from the VOX Group we are going to vote in favour of all the proposals aimed at improving the lives of young people. But you, Mr González, I don't think you can say the same. Tell, if not, the young Catalans to whom you intend to defend, that when VOX proposed to promote vocational training, reduce university fees, match prices between degrees and masters, when VOX proposed policies to promote youth employment and provide tax advantages to young people, you voted against; although, on the other hand, I am also glad that you have changed your mind, regretted and decided to give VOX the reason. I understand that progress costs a little more than the rest, but in the end, if you strive, you end up giving us the reason, even you. So... [[Some applause.]] Separatists and socialists, faced with their youth policy based on hedonism, adanism, individualism, we propose a policy based on the three fundamental pillars to implement social justice policies for young people: work, family and homeland. Work, to enable young people to prosper materially, to have access to decent housing, to have a healthy involvement in community life and to enable them to form and maintain a family. Family: family, because it is the natural community of man, because the isolated person is prey to the totalitarian attacks of the political powers that seek to control them. And homeland: homeland, because our children and our young people deserve to grow in a Spain that protects them, projects them towards the future and assures them of rooting them and providing continuity and rooting them. But, of course, you don't believe in work, you don't believe in the family, you don't believe in the homeland. They do not believe in work when they truncate any opportunity for progress and growth among young people; the rate of twenty-per-cent, more than twenty-per-cent, in youth unemployment here in Catalonia shows this. On the other hand, they try to buy young people with paguitas and customer cultural bonuses to consume what you consider to be culture. You don't believe in the family either; in fact, you attack it whenever you can. Do you know how many times the word family appears among your proposals? Zero times. Zero times the word 'family'. On the other hand, 'genre perspective' we see it in absolutely all the phrases that you present. Nor do they promote any measures to help young people form their families. Instead, to the MENA, yes; they give them all kinds of facilities, of parrots, so that they continue to do, well, what we all know they are dedicated to doing. And as for the homeland, what am I going to tell you? You are the crutch of separatism and ETA, it is you who have agreed with ETA. So little more I'm going to add about it. So, in conclusion, more and more young people realize that only VOX remains, and that only VOX represents the only patriotic and social alternative for young people in Spain, to help them to be able to form, work, to be able to emancipate themselves and to be able to form a family. Because with our three pillars – work, family and homeland – we will promote real social justice policies for the young people of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.65.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A new cycle to win, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.66.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... and we value this Socialist Party's motion on youth policies, beginning, first, to understand that all the proposed measures, whether we agree or not, come into between measures that we understand as pieces, that they are necessary to solve urgent, material problems, but that they do not address the problem of foundations, that it is the structural nature of an exclusion of young people from decision-making spaces based on a project of country that continues to feel predatory and that, in the end, it is the future of these young people that is extinguished. The university taxes, starting with the first point, we understand that it is obvious that it is necessary to lower them, but we must walk towards a model of gratuity, because we understand that education is a right and that, therefore, neither the university taxes nor the difference in prices between masters and postgraduates must exist, because, in fact, studies and access to higher education cannot depend on the economic capacity of families. In our opinion, education is a right and, therefore, we must walk free of charge at all stages of education. With regard to vocational training, it is obvious that dual vocational training cannot be the central pillar of the vocational training perspective at this stage; in any case, it can be complementary action and, obviously, as in the previous point, it can lower the prices, yes, but what it is to walk towards a gratuity that makes the right to education not dependent on the youth's purchasing power. Regarding youth employment policies, well, it's a very ambiguous text, it's a toast to the sun. Yes, it is true that concrete measures are called for, through..., it can be a tool for the youth guarantee scheme, but in order to end this time we need to talk about a job reform that does, in the end, validate a practice that is now illegal, such as this perpetuation and this possibility of transforming the contracts of temporality into a much more habitual recourse than it is now. So, let's get to the point, let's not talk about pieces, like youth guarantee plans, and tackle the depth of labour reform. As far as housing policies are concerned, whatever improvements are made that help to improve, as we say, day by day is fine, but let's go to the game. That is to say, when we talk about helping, what we are doing is a complement to a problem of'structural living'; therefore, we guarantee that the housing park is accessible, especially for young people between the divide and twenty-nine years, who have this line of infra-access to the 'living', also because of a question of little economic independence, and therefore we attack the scene of the issue. Regarding point 5 of twenty-five percent, we would vote against it, because including the purchase option for us is not a viable option and, therefore, we understand that it is necessary to strengthen the market for logue. Regarding point 6, yes, we agree to make a bonus on the autonomous tram, but we remember that the state side of the Socialist Party has lowered it from the god to the five-per-cent, so we don't go to pieces here when at the state level we're not working consistently. The cultural bo can, as they say, be an interesting piece to guarantee access to culture, but here we prefer to bet, as we say, on a more universal access that allows not only access to the consumption of culture, but access to cultural production. With regard to the extolled young people, we are very much in agreement that there should be swift protection on the part of the institution, because one of the things that is going on right now is that there is a very long, very uncertain period of time that generates insecurity in this young person, that it is when they arrive and until this legal protection is obtained, there is a time of uncertainty in which they do not have access to resources and we are at risk of their ability to emancipate in a dignified way. On the question of the T-Young, we agree, and indeed it is a measure that guarantees, with this territorial view, the mobility of young men from the Principality. And about the additions and the game, we are happy to have seen the change of the point from the transaction, because what it is to delete the betting boxes and start to talk about a law of the Catalan game, which is where the Generalitat of Catalonia has skills to regulate. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.67.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Jessica González has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.68.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, let's first celebrate this motion, that even though we are not at a hundred-per-cent agreement– there are a couple of points with which we do not agree– puts at the centre a topic that is not necessarily central in this Parliament, as is the youth of our country, that today they do not have many expectations of the future, in the face of precariousness, in the face of temporality, below, and that all the regulation of prices that we have in Catalonia today cannot allow habitating, with the expenses that it supposes. And all this without talking about the weather, where we find that it takes even more if you donate or if you're young migrated, where the situation gets worse up to more than 11.5_per_cent. A few months ago we presented a motion, also from our parliamentary group, and one of the proposals which we issued and which was approved in this Parliament, but which, however, has not yet received a compliment, and we have also rejected explanations about this incompliment... It could be an incompliment more than the Generality, but for our group it is absolutely inconceivable that we do not yet have a plan, which the Government has committed itself to, a plan of attention to child and youth mental health, with which to deal with the emergence of young people, right? , with measures that would help and accompany a lot of this demand that we also get up through the National Youth Council of Catalonia, and that must materialize without further delay. On the subject of the young person, we like to read that we are still in line with the student movement and that government parties are committed to talking about the reduction of university fees, as the policies of the Ministry of Universities have been assured by the past year, but the more a historical demand is added, as is the equipping of prices of masters and degrees. We did not give up working for effective gratuity, which is what it should be, for the right to everyone's professional qualification. And, in fact, we think we can't stop talking about professional training, without talking about the more than twenty thousand young people who stayed out of the previous year because of the generality's lack of forecast. We expect more resources, better access, to give out to all the young people they want, more than the proposal to lower public prices. And for what it does to the dual FP, yes, of course, of quality, with a contract that corresponds to the enterprise in the learning process and endowed with rights the student with follow-up and transparency. As we have indicated before, we believe that women and young migrants alone, according to the data, are the segments of the population where the most must be focused on the level of thinking to which active employment policies and return policies should be addressed, which are also essential to giving out this difficult situation. Getting into housing issues – and here we have some of our more separate positions – we see how we turn, in a way, to a mentality that is not one of the solutions of this time. For one band, we think it's a good idea to put down a minimum of twenty-five percent of housing promotions, but we can't think of these as still buying, because we know that what young people need is amenable to be emancipated and able to do it in decent conditions. We believe that emancipation is not only beneficial to the IRPF, because we think that, in any case, secrecy is not taxed, right? , but press some of this Parliament for workers and workers in this country, and in this case young people, have better economic conditions. And we believe, lastly, in housing, that emancipating oneself is a right that should go much further than the entrances. That's why we think the previous point is so important, to make housing promotions to give out to young people who are living in extreme precariousness. And in the case of unaccompanied young people, it is urgent, ultimately, to pay attention to them giving a strong response from here, to make these have opportunities, paying special attention to the psychological and social care, putting resources to the DGAIA and student who can be the solution to these problems. A great news is a proposal like that made by the National Youth Council of Catalonia, as it is to extend the T-Young to thirty; that would be essential. Like the other proposal: that this does not distinguish between areas and promotes mobility. Let us hope that the compliment of the girl proposals in this motion will not be a more incompliment of the Generality and be able to move forward definitively in youth policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.69.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.70.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we're not the first group you've said, there are many proposals that are fanciful in the youth arena. In fact, I remember, in 2013, Full monogram on youth, and many of these proposals today, 2022, remain unimplemented. And, therefore, it is enough of a disheartener in this sense, because we have enough to make proposals, not only here in the House of Commons, but also in the Youth Commission, which, moreover, have support, and a support that is sufficiently wide by various groups, and which then remain in nothing else. So, I hope that today, at these points that you get to approve of this young man, so, really, the government is laying the piles in this sense. We will give practical support to the totality of the points; we agree with almost all of them. I think we also have a problem with the subject of youth, which is very much related to the subject of job placement or this lack of job placement, which is a problem with orientation. And many times we have pointed out, already, that it may be necessary to make a clearer work orientation to the young person, perhaps in the later courses of the ESO, implying-there..., it must be in a cross-sectional way, involving-there the educational community, but also the entrepreneurs, also the chambers of commerce, the guidance services, the local entities, right? , like a girl..., like what she's doing with the dual FP. Here to the young lady, at point 2, who is betting for the dual FP, with this promotion campaign. I think it's the big unknown and therefore we have to insist on this, because we are generating frustration in young people, with the data that we have of the past, that they are talkative. In point 3, too, which we are talking about continuing to promote social inclusion policies, we are talking precisely about this issue, about the difficulties for the employment of vocational training. We are in full agreement. And above all, in paragraph 2, we are talking about the Youth Guarantee, which we have also not discussed in detail in this committee and which I believe is the great weakness of the Government of the Generality : not to apply correctly these foundations that come to us from Europe of the Youth Guarantee. Besides, there's a lot of lack of transparency and opacity. Therefore, we agree with the party saying that these data are published in order to know how many young people actually participate in the Youth Guarantee program and how many of them have managed to find work in the labour market. But I insist that this is a subject that we have often talked about and that the corresponding work is not being done. The Youth Guarantee is still largely unknown to the young lady of Catalonia. And, therefore, we may also have to make campaigns to appropriate these measures and give them to know and know that we also have this option. More things. For example, in the matter of..., well, lack of..., or the problems to emancipate from the young man. Point 5 talks about creating a public housing park with a twenty-i-five_per_cent reserved for young people. We fully agree on this issue. Also with the following point, to increase this enhancement of the IRPF logger. In fact, we, from our group, have put forward a very similar proposal in the debate on general political orientation. And, therefore, we believe that it is essential to be able to facilitate access to this first ‘young people's home' because it can be emancipated, because the middle age is really very worrying. And finally, in the last minute that I have left, I want to focus on point number 10, which speaks, therefore, of these problems..., the increase in addiction problems, behavioral problems, young people in the digital environment, says that as a consequence of the impact of the covid. I think he's been going a long time. Yes, it's true that cove-19 has still enhanced it. But the fact of having access online – and therefore the twenty-four hours of the day, at any time – has led to these problems having increased. And, therefore, it is a subject that we also care about, together with the subject of mental salvation. In fact, last week we put on the march, already, this Commission of Study on Mental Health and Additions, and it's a topic that I'm sure we'll talk about with experts, because we have to try to pal·liar, somehow, all this increase that we have in youth and that often and often ends with consequences and outcomes that are fatal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.71.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mr David Gonzalez once again takes the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.72.0	Thank you, President. Answer very quickly, in two minutes. Together for Catalunya. In fact, we share the causes that explain some of the difficult situations that currently afflicts the youth of Catalonia, right? The two structural crises of which we are hereus. The tax policy, no; this only causes you to explain it, we deny it. But it is true, it is a situation shared also with other autonomous communities and with other territories. In fact, we have never said that the governments of Junts and Esquerra for Catalonia are the provocateurs of the difficult situation that currently afflicts young women, but we do say that they are responsible for not giving an effective answer to the problems of the youth of the past few years. Republican Left. It is true that we have not accepted some of the items we have been commenting on. And I think he defined it pretty well, didn't he? With this tendency to ‘we must do it in Parliament and we must do it all the way. It is that with this tendency, that many times directly question the assemblies, as in general we do not agree, if what it means is that the assemblies, which are already overloaded today, have to seize even more skills without resources than accompany them. And there's a criticism... a lot of times they don't match Junts and Esquerra, but in this criticism they do match, which is in the young bonus. We have never said that perhaps this is the best solution – certainly not the only one either – but as we are aware that the bonus of young people, like at least, opens the doors to many young people, immediately, to be able to emancipate themselves and start a project of autonomous life. And this is a measure that has never given these consequences to any of the actions taken by its government in the past few years. And finally, too. I had been aware not to answer VOX in this debate, but I have to admit that, if anything they know how to do right, it is to provoke in the rest of the people a very great desire to give them some kind of answer. I don't know how much progress people do things better or worse. What does not surprise me at all is that we voted against all your proposals, because from our group, with VOX, or around the corner. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.73.0	The debate is over, and so is the record that we are running out of voting this afternoon, before the session is suspended. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the settlement suffered by children and families claiming right to partake as a minimum of twenty-five percent of school hours in the castle]] [[302-00079/13]] And, therefore, let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the settlement suffered by children and families who claim rightfully that it is divided as at least the twenty-five per cent of teaching hours in the castle; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. To expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.74.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by regretting the absence today of the Education Adviser, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, who apologized very politely yesterday; he has already warned me that he could not be and therefore is not a criticism of his absence. But I regret your absence because, certainly, my speech today is very much destined to gloss over an intervention you made yesterday. Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray yesterday asked himself before this chamber, clearly outraged, he wondered who these courts are to contradict a consensus of decades and decades in this Parliament. He referred to the supposed consensus that education in Catalonia must be exclusively in Catalan and must exclude Spanish as a vehicle language. Well, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray yesterday gave a true masterclass of totalitarian thinking, because asking if in a democratic parliamentary chamber who are the judges to contradict what the parliamentary assemblies say is an anti-democratic, pre-democratic thought, typical of other times, certainly incompatible with the vision of liberal democracy. The courts, in fact, must ensure the constitutionality of laws, the constitutionality of parliamentary acts, and that is what is a modern constitutional democracy like that we have in Spain, like that in Germany, Italy and other countries of the world. In this regard, I would like to recall a case that nationalism often uses in a spurious way with absolute joy, which is that of Rosa Parks, not to compare it to anyone's situation, but to explain to Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray that when Mrs. Rosa Parks..., remember, a black citizen, an American black citizen who revealed herself against the unjust laws that prevailed in the state of Alabama in the fifties of the last century. And he did it precisely against what the applicable laws said at that time in Montgomery, Alabama. She did so because she knew that the Constitution protected her, because she knew that the Constitution protected her right to sit in the same seats on buses as American citizens like her, but in this case of white race. Rosa Parks went on a bus one day after a marathon working day, and instead of going to sit in the uncomfortable, hard banks like the stones that were reserved at the time, in Alabama of the 1950s, to black citizens, she decided to sit in the soft, comfortable seats that were reserved for white citizens. He realized that his right was protected by the Constitution of the United States. And indeed, at the end of the fifties, an American judge contravened, contradicted a consensus not for decades, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, but for centuries, a consensus of contempt for the American black minority, and, of course, he did so by appealing to the principle of equality, to the principle of freedom under the Constitution of the United States of 1787, much older than ours, but, in any case, also defending the rights of freedom and equality. This Spanish Constitution of 1978 is the one that protects the right of our children to receive an education also in Spanish, which is not only the Constitution of 1978, but also the Convention on the Rights of the Child, recognized by UNESCO, recognized by the UN. The right to receive education in the mother tongue, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist bench, is a human right recognized by the UN. It is not only a fundamental right of the Constitution but also a human right of all citizens of the democratic states of the world. Therefore, Catalan citizens, who are Spanish citizens, have the right to educate our children in their mother tongue, Catalan and Spanish, and we are also in favour of it being in both languages, Catalan and Spanish, which are basically the majority languages of the citizens of Catalonia. You continue to oppose and legislate in this chamber against the Constitution and against human rights, be aware. That is why they are not surprised when the judges and courts of this country tell them that they must stop behaving so totalitarianly. That is why I spoke before the masterclass given yesterday by Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, of totalitarian thought, when I asked whether "who are those judges to tell us what we have to do, after decades and decades, by the way, of supposed consensus, that Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray obviously takes it out of his sleeve. It is certainly a pity that you are committed to violating that fundamental right that the citizens of Catalonia have: to educate our children in both Catalan and Spanish. And we, from Citizens, will continue to fight for recognition of the rights of all Catalan citizens to be educated in their mother tongue. And I finish, Madam President, with a comment. Lao Tse said, the Eastern philosopher, the Chinese philosopher, that every journey of a thousand leagues begins with a first step. For perhaps the first step we took in Citizens a few years ago or has been given by Canet's father demanding his son's right to educate also in Spanish. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.75.0	Next, she has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.76.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. We're talking about language again, getting rid of this Ciutadans youth. A young man whom we associate, like all others, with the utmost respect, and, as always, we have also made the effort, from my group, to present ideas which we understood to improve the original text, and which, as we are used to at times, therefore, have not been accepted either. Indeed, and beyond the dialogue of the deputy Martin Blanco, it is difficult to see Ciutadans's willingness to agree, negotiate or give up in re. I think they're more comfortable building walls, maintaining fronts, dividing and confrontation. And from the Socialist Group, on the contrary, we want to listen to each other with respect, put ourselves in their place and hear 'em, be able to talk about it, be able to reach agreements and be able to stand up to conflicts. And we want to contribute humbly to it also on a day that we will be selling and disbanding in the framework of the Rafael Campalans Foundation, where we will have the chance to count with experts from the world of education, legal, sociolinguistics, Catalan writers and writers, in Catalan and Spanish language, and also with political representatives who with many different starting positions have accepted debate in a serene and rational way. And it seems to us that this is the path. We are in a moment where we can, we can build consensus, also in language, to update and update what was built in the eighties. He's got a lot of people out there. It must take into account many changes that have greatly impacted the language: we have talked about digital transformation in the field of audiovisual, the arrival of new citizens, the process – why not say so? – or the repte of the English in a globalized world, among many other causes. But we could also use it to improve the education system and the learning of languages in a multilingual context, to boost the necessary changes in the hands of teachers, teachers and experts; to improve – because it seems to us that there is a margin of improvement –, to make citizens and citizens of the future more competent in Catalan, in castle, in Orange and in a third language. But this young man has a little building experience. Proposes, for example, to condemn the government to dismiss judicial sentences that fix the twenty-five_per_cent when it is not true, when they have all followed each other at all times, with governments of all colors, also independent – we have seen Canet at length and also in other places in the last few years. In another point he proposed to condemn, in this case, an entity, Platform for Language, when what it would touch, here yes, would be to appeal to the responsibility of the Government. And we are surprised that whenever we have proposed that action protocols be developed to authorize studies or surveys that can be carried out at educational centres, precisely, to inform the cloisters, directions, and familiarize families, thus protecting the right of protection of minors and thus avoiding episodes such as that of the Language Platform in the countries, then they vote against. Nor did the government ever want to accept this. And the young man also claims the right to the first education in mother tongue, but we think that in a context in which we have more than three-hundred mother tongues in the Catalan education system, which can guarantee, from one band, it is the teaching of official languages at all stages of education, also in the first schooling, and above all the full domain at the end of the compulsory stage, and from the other, to encourage programs that age for the knowledge of some languages and cultures of origin that are present in Catalonia, thus strengthening coexistence and social cohesion, which can help deepen the first or mother tongue for some and give an opportunity to learn new languages for others. And, finally, from the PSC we have already said by active and passive that the feelings must be met, all, that political action cannot be based on disobedience, but what would be convincing is that among all of us is a chance at dialogue, with the will of close to consensus; we are able to take the lead and contribute to reviewing, updating, to political reference and also to strengthening socially the consensus on the linguistic model of the Catalan education system. We are clear that it will be wrong who wants to defend the castle to the detriment of Catalonia or the other way around. We've got bridges and no more fronts. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to ask for a separate vote on point 1 and point 4 for another band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.77.0	To fix his position, the next word is VOX deputy Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.78.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. VOX is and will always be in compliance with the law, respect for court sentences and constitutional order. VOX will always be able to study in Spanish with complete freedom anywhere in the national territory. Spain cannot be the only country in the world where its common language is relegated, marginalized, stigmatized in much of its educational system. We will not continue to allow the rulers of some of these autonomous taifas to be in constant rebellion and to presume to trample judicial sentences continuously. That's a totalitarian manual aberration. For too many years now, the Generalitat of Catalonia has been breaking with absolute impunity the constitutional order, thus dynamising the foundations of democracy in Spain. The Catalan political class and the elites who support it stir up the normal coexistence between Catalans and undermine the rights of the Spanish-speaking people. That's neither tolerable nor respectable, it's just combatable. VOX will require one and a thousand times that the socio-linguistic rights of pupils be respected, that they can be studied in their mother tongue as requested by UNESCO, and their right not to be persecuted or harassed by it. We will not tolerate them trying to impose a language on anyone or that separatists continue to treat Castilian speakers as second-class citizens; nor will they continue to impose a language as a key to the breaking of national unity. We will bring before the courts all separatist leaders who prevent the execution of judicial sentences and those who harass or invite the public stoning of families who demand their legitimate rights. They will always find us in front of these disgusting public subsidies to entities such as the Platform for Language, which only aims to satisfy the most fanatical « lazis. We will use all possible legal springs to try to prevent separatism from derailing our history and our common language. We will not tolerate that, speaking Spanish – by the way, the majority language in Catalonia – continue to call us « colonists, « wild beasts, « jordos, « carnegos, as you and some of your supporters do on abundant social networks. They don't have to go too far – they don't have to go too far – to find hate crimes; they take him inside. Hate takes you inside. You're hate and you show it every day. And every day more Catalans realize their moral chastisement. It is no coincidence that the social use of Catalan is receding: people are already realizing what their personal and political profile is. People do not want any more linguistic impositions, nor do they want more fines for labeling a Spanish-only trade, for example. VOX will defend the right of teachers to speak as they really want, so that students who have the selectivity can take their exam in the language they want. We will ensure political and institutional neutrality in universities, a free educational inspection of the Taliban language, and the application of an immediate 155 indefinite to end their despicable totalitarianism. Separatists, respect the law – it's very easy – respect the sentences, bet on freedom in capitals, eh? Or we'll meet again in court. Do not continue to behave like frustrated pallets. And I'm done. Nor have I been able today to resist answering the Member of the PSC, who has spoken before, Mr David González, who said: "Finally, I do not go around the corner with VOX, and he says so, as presumptuously and so on. Strategy that serves to help keep demonizing us and so on; well, that's fine. We also have no intention of going with you anywhere – is that none –; no problem. And you know why? Because we already know that you are what you are. You prefer to make a deal with Bildu. You prefer to agree with ETA heirs. Deal with this gentleman, who's in Bildu's executive. These are the ones you're talking to. We, with people like that, of course we don't have any desire to go with you anywhere either. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.79.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.80.0	Thank you, President. Well, his objectives, those of whom he presents this motion of motion and who wants to give support, are obvious: to promote the backwardness in the social use of the Catalan language and, at the same time, to fragment our school community, our educational community, depending on the language of origin. Their political objectives are clear and diaphanous. And our answer is that they didn't pass, that they didn't match, that they couldn't apply this new 155 schoolgirl. And this, moreover, is done at a precise moment of clear and indisputable retreat from the social and academic use of Catalan language, and at a time that has clearly remained demonstrated and pale that linguistic immersion in our schools is a useful tool, both for cohesion and social inclusion and for equal opportunities. Mirin, the Catalan language is a common good of the whole society, of the joint society, which we legitimately aspire to be a common language and shared throughout the whole society and for the joint school community, without discrimination, without exclusions, without divisions. And the best method up to here, the best method up to today, in order to guarantee and fulfill this objective, is, to be sure, that of linguistic immersion. The problem is not immersion. The problem is that it hasn't been applied in the past few years as well as with the right resources. Therefore, the solution is not to apply this judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, but to apply immersion. And this is a question of willingness and political determination, of resources – of teaching resources and of teaching – of social mobilization and support to school communities in the territory. But it is also a question of strengthening the public school, strengthening it with resources, with all kinds of instruments that enable it to be enhanced as a key instrument of our education system and as the only instrument that effectively guarantees integration and inclusion. The Government of the Generalitat knows that it has us and will keep us at the side, knows that it can count on our support not to apply the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. A judgment that purports to contradict the Parliament of Catalonia, the law of linguistic policy, the law of education of Catalonia, and the majority consensus in this country. A consensus – and we give it to the government and to the groups that support it – that, indeed, it must aspire to be the broadest and the greatest possible majority. A consensus that obviously has to aspire to incorporate the Socialist Party of Catalonia, a sense of doubt, and that which the Socialist Party of Catalonia represents. But a consensus that I can't do is give in to a Socialist Party in Catalonia, a PSOE and a Spanish government that want this sentence to be applied. To a PSC, to a PSOE and to a Spanish government that raise flexibility, an update of linguistic immersion, understood as less català at school and as dual vehicles of català and castella. Upstairs the key moment. The TSJ pulled the button and started the countdown. The timer's on the move. It is a key moment for such a resolve, for such a decision with clarity, firmness and determination, between sovereignty and rights or submission to the State. For our part, the position is very clear, and it is that the català in the school and the school in català is not touched. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.81.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.82.0	Good morning, everybody. Well, Mr. Ignacio Martín Blanco, you are specialists in storms, in creating them and trying to keep them. I hope you know that it's hard to hold on for a long time under the storm without axopluc, however much I want to keep it alive. They run the risk of being swallowed up by the social desori generated by the created temporal. This is the image that she gives me her young lady, which is not new, because she is a young woman who repeated her day or day again, because she seems to be a desperate exercise of party notoriety and not the search for a solution to any problem. Because you pose an invented problem and therefore do not want an answer. The only thing you want is to keep alive this problem that you've invented, because, for what it seems, it's the sense of your own existence. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of the points of your motion. We are opposed to the background of the inquiry they presented and the proposals they make in the motion and the motivations that support it. In the first place, because presenting this young man today is an insult to intelligence, that of entry; but it is, in addition, an insult to families, to students and to the educated staff to bring this subject here to debate today. Today's schools have other problems. Today we see that the problems of school are others: we need open, secure, healthy schools. To place this element today in public debate, in political debate, is to insult the families and professionals who are trying to do the best they can to guarantee the right to education and the highest educational quality of the girls and girls in this country. Secondly, we will not vote on their proposals, because the battle of language is not the battle of infants, it is not the problem of infants. It may be from a couple who want to single out their children in this idiom conflict, but it's not the problem of the children of these parents or their friends. Because today the problem of children and young people in the school system is not Catalan or Castilian. The problem is the ability to read, it is understanding, it is the difficulties of oral and written expression, that the boys and girls read, understand and use well the languages to live, to relate, to move. And this is where we must direct all efforts, to apply resources and not to increase the teaching load in one language or another, which will serve no purpose. In the third place, because educational communication at school, in the classroom, can hardly encapsulate itself into feelings of pedagogically illiterate judgments. The language of life has nothing to do with the official idiom. The language of the school is estimated when the school is estimated. The solution will be, therefore, to make the schools consider themselves, because they are well equipped, because they work well, because they have the human resources, necessary pedagogics to develop to the maximum all the potentialities of the infants. The object of education is that, when the compulsory teaching is finished, it is known and has the ability to use the two languages, the català and the castella, whatever the place of birth, whatever the family language or school where the teaching is done. They must have the basic linguistic skills to be able to serve catal and castle in all spheres of life. And there is no percentage that I guarantee it, but the ability of each educational centre to establish educational, educational, educational and organizational strategies that are appropriate to accomplish it. And, today, linguistic immersion in all the actual assessments has proven to be functional in this purpose. In fourth place, the essential criterion is to do so without separating students into different schools or spaces for reasons of language. Unfortunately, we already have centers that secrete as a function of socioeconomic situations. We are not willing to add a new element of segregation or student classification. And in five places, we will also vote against your motion because the criteria of using the catal as normal language at school, as vehicle language, is the way that allows the two languages to be perceived and used as common languages and to prevent any of the two from being considered, for the type of learning and the degree of use, as foreign language in the school system. For all this, we will vote not for your young lady. Let the specialists and the Administration work, which are ultimately to analyze, determine and evaluate the best formulas to achieve the objectives, and repeat and respect the criteria granted, that is that all children, in finishing the compulsory teaching, know how to use the two languages. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.83.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.84.0	Thank you, President. Very telegraphically, to transfer our support to the initiative, which we believe is impeccable, as it points out two issues that are fundamental to us. The first, which we should not have to explain here, but which is a good thing, is the fact that every government and every institution, every politician, every citizen is ultimately obliged to comply with judicial decisions. I think I have to remember this, because it shows precisely that we are living at a stage where when some people fill their mouths with democracy, it is they who tread it, because respect for judicial decisions and the separation of powers is, as everyone knows, a fundamental element in democracy. The second is that any pedagogical method, however respectable it is – and when I speak of a pedagogical system or method I include the linguistic question – can never be above a fundamental right. Mr Martín Blanco has referred to a fundamental right and it is the right to be educated in the mother tongue; it has to be perfectly compatible – and, in fact, with a minimum of common sense and without sacralizing the languages would be perfectly compatible and there was a time in Catalonia when it was – with what Mr Gallego explained, of the common ones, but in a sense contrary to what I think he meant, and it is that the right to be educated in your mother tongue has to be and must be compatible with the language ending up being an instrument and not an end in itself at the service of the pupil. That is, putting the person in the centre; not the languages, the people and their rights. The right to receive education in the mother tongue, the possibility of finishing the school itinerary with language resources in Catalan, Spanish and a third foreign language, enough to go out into the world, which is quite difficult. Finally, I believe that the motion responds perfectly to these two ideas and that is why you will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.85.0	Thank you. And then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.86.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, when I saw the title of the Ciutadans movement..., he was talking about settlement, the settlement suffered by children and couples at school. And I thought that maybe today, since they were talking about settlement and school, maybe it would be the day that they were going out here to ask forgiveness of the new teachers of Sant Andreu de la Barca who was appointed by their leader, Albert Rivera, publishing new photographs of these teachers and signing them as authors of a hate crime, before the justice that they so much like is manifested. The case was filed, but the damage of the teachers [[applause]] And from the center, this damage has never been repaired for those who contributed to that public lynching, which was you. The case led to more than a dozen teachers moving to another center the next course. Today I hoped that, with this headline and for dignity, they would come out here and ask for forgiveness for this public lynching to the teachers of this country with exclusively partisan ends. But no, let's go back to these polemics that only arise in your election program. Of all the points that repeat "now and always, as the Gallego company has said, I will focus on what speaks of UNESCO. Today they talk about UNESCO and, as they are captors of everything, they use UNESCO to say that it is a right to recognize that of infants to their mother tongue. Of course. But you should see what UNESCO's intention is. And the UNESCO that they claim here, this prestigious institution, which tells us is to protect and keep the minority languages alive. And I'll give you an example. Do they know what day it's February 21st? The 21st of February is the European Day of Mother Language. And do you know what happened last year? So there was a manifesto from the presidents of the valencia, balar, navarres, basc parliaments, to say that minority languages were to be defended. And they did it on Mother Language Day, the European Mother Language Day. I don't know if you're serious about telling me that you did it on Mother Language Day just to defend the castle. It seems to me that he was going in another direction. They want to talk about European institutions. Talk to us. The European Charter of Minority Languages, approved by the Council of Europe, of which Spain is a party, year 98. And you say that states are compromised... [[I'll tell you what.]] Excuse me. Signing States are committed to ensuring the right to use these languages in public administration, in justice, in communication media, as well as promoting their teaching. Therefore, we are sure, sure, that in the very City Hall we will come here with a young man, asking that the Catalans have right to the use of the catalan in the judicial sphere. And so they'll help us reverse that only a set of feelings in Catalonia are girls in Catalan. And as they keep filling their mouths, they told you to defend the linguistic rights of all Catalans, so here we wait for them. We're sure that the very Ple will come with this young man on justice. As talking to you is very complicated, I would like to make a reference to this trip that you yourself said had made Citizens. Because if... I am aware that his strategy against our language has brought them to the Congress of Deputies – 2019, it seems to me – from fifty-seven to two Members; to the Parliament of Catalonia, in three years, from thirty-six to six Members; more than 950,000 votes down, and all the capitals of Catalonia lost. Therefore, I think you should come to us, defend this model of linguistic immersion proved successful. And that's what the same Council of Europe says. The same Council of Europe defends that the skills of Catalan students are good both in català and in castella. Therefore, we invite them to travel to the Catalonia of yes – we invite them. Yes to the Catalan school model, yes to the defense of our teachers, yes to continue to guarantee the social, parliamentary and legal support that has always held the school in Catalan. And we're still going further, so we don't fall asleep. And this year will be the year of yes, too, to re-defend, and firmly, that the català is an official language to Europe. So I made it very clear to them: if neither Philip V nor the decree of New Plant did so; neither dictators nor Franco nor King Borbó did not end our language, it will still be less you who will end our language or our identity for the most part that they intend to do so. So, school, now and always, in català. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.87.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.88.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, one more motion to hold the five minutes of glory – five plus two – on the part of the proposing group, to continue to discuss the subject of language and to argue about it. It's been said so many times. We repeat all the arguments, the different Members and Members that preceded me until we get tired. But that way we can say as many of them as we have had to debate on this subject. In the classrooms in Catalonia, in the classrooms in the Catalan schools, there is no conflict or has ever been a partisan. We're still defending the consensus, as said, and it's been so long as you're here. And when you arrived, therefore, you have used this argument to make us a flag and, therefore, as Councillor Cambray said yesterday to his question..., we will today ratify everything that the Councillor himself said: that we take the law, the Catalan legislation, the LEC, the compliment of the LEC, we determine that, in the end... I don't think I'm counting time. [[Someone said, "Take advantage of it!]] Did I take advantage of it? Go on! So, as we say, the LEC, it is determined that at the end of the mandatory stage the students will have the same knowledge of catal and castella. But you feel more that policies are dictated by the courts, without any pedagogical criteria, with percentages that determine curricula or that determine educational models. And that's it. Because, frankly, those who don't win the ballot box try to win it through the courts. And they're talking in this young man, at the first point, about respect for the compliment of the sentence. Let's talk about complimenting the feeling, but ask us the question that surrounds us. Let's ask the minister, let's ask the Spanish government the question: will they complete the sentence, like asking aside and like the winning part of this suit? Will they do it? And if they do, what do they do it for? Will they do it as a function of an abrogated law, the Wert law? Or will they do so in accordance with the current law passed with consent to Congress, the Celáa law? Because it will have to be explained very well by Minister Celáa, if he really asks the Government of the Generality to complete the sentence. You'll have to explain it very well. [[some applause]] 'Cause that's what she's gonna do to discredit her own self, her own law. Another issue: the lack of respect for the entities, the entities of the association fabric of Catalonia; entities that based on partners, volunteering, which they do is to promote Catalan language and culture, to bring them closer to the citizenry; a lot of citizenship, different from you, that they do believe that knowing the Catalan language is good, because it is part of the community and helps them to feel part of the community. And another mantra: that of the mother tongue, which the company Freixa has perfectly defended, respects the fact that you continue to distort the reality of the UNESCO report, that what they claim is to defend minority languages in front of the great ones. And now an exercise: let's think about what situation are Catalan and Spanish language in Catalonia and still lying. And then, then, yes, say it: so many campaigns as needed to dignify the Catalan language – so many as needed. In front of 9_million people who speak to the world the català in front of more than 300_million people who speak the castle, if we do not defend our language will not do it any more. And there's a mantra of his own, a flag of his, which is 'I speak Spanish because I want to. Miri, sap who also speaks Spanish because he wants to? Many voters from Esquerra Republicana and other independenceist forces of this chamber who speak Spanish in any of their variants because they want to, among them Senator Ana Surra, the president of my local section, who is silver, and so many others, to dignify. And the richness of this country makes these people who speak Spanish because they want to talk in Catalan too because they want to. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.89.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parula the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.90.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Palacín, a couple of very quick things: actually, we do, when we speak Spanish, that we speak it because it gives us the will and when we speak Catalan we also speak it because it gives us the will. Unlike you, ladies and gentlemen of the separatist parties, who would never, ever, ever make an intervention in this Parliament in the castle, I and many of our fellow Members have made honest interventions in the català; we normally do so, because we consider all languages, the català and the castle, to be our own, and this is the great difference. So good, Mrs. Palacín, to you given the desire one day to make an intervention in castle in this Parliament. For this reason I say one thing: look, Mrs Palacín, this is a question of rights, it is a question of respect for the citizen, it is a question of height of view. And I say to you the following, Mrs Palacín: I, as a Catalan speaking Spanish family, do my life absolutely to fifty_per_cent in Catalan and in Spanish, that I deeply respect my fellow citizens who are Catalan speaking, that I speak without any problem either language, unlike the vast majority of you – yes, unlike most of you – I will tell you one thing, a phrase by Amin Maalouf, that in his work Murderous identities said the following: "If the one whose language I am learning does not respect mine, then speaking his language ceases to be an act of openness and becomes an act of vassallage and submission. This is the great problem that many citizens of Catalonia begin to see with their own way of hearing the català, with their own way of trying to impose the català as the sole language of the Catalans, with their will to exclosure the castle as a Catalan language. The same way that català is a Spanish language, the castle is also a Catalan language. And that's one thing that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's do it, please. President, I have some deputy who, poor, can't stand feeling things he's not used to feeling, but it's also important that I feel them, Mr. Deputy. I'd appreciate it, President, if you'd take this into account, because it's very uncomfortable. No, it's just that if I want to interrupt... do it later. It is important to be able to finish the interventions quietly. What I'm saying... and I insist on this argument: Catalan is a Spanish language and the castle is also a Catalan language. And what we ask is respect for all two languages, not just for one, but for all languages, and above all for the rights of the citizens of Catalonia to have an education in Catalan as well as in Castilian, for respect and for prestige of all two languages, not just one. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.91.0	After the debate, we'll also vote for this young man before we suspend the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the search and transfer of knowledge as key axes of the knowledge society]] [[302-00080/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the search and transfer of knowledge as key axes of the society of knowledge; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, deputies and deputies. First of all, apologizing to the councilwoman, who is looking for an institutional trip to Euskadi, will not be able to attend this young man today. And today, after an inquiry that we made to the first advisor for the research bet, we present this motion as Junts for Catalonia. Because we are a talented country and we are clear that we can still strengthen it much more; from here the bet on the premise, which we approved a long time ago, with a match for close policies of 292_million euros. We have to say that this is an increase of forty-three per cent, almost 90 million additional. It is, therefore, a historical growth. It is only with this in mind that a specific consultancy was needed for Catalan universities and for our country's search system. In search, we want to highlight the explicit support for all actions of encouragement in search of salvation. Above all, we have seen it in this pandemic, as well as in all the scientific discoveries that make us and help us improve the welfare of the citizenry. In this sense, I would like to be able to explain the relevance of the importance of making new areas of research, and here an example of creating new areas of research territorially and above all focused on health. This is why I would like to explain a very close example of where I live, which would be motivated by what is the University of Vic - Central University of Catalonia, which is about to create the research project of innovation in the sciences of life and health from the university and with all the health institutions of Osona and Bages. In the background, it has the mission to generate scientific knowledge in life and health, such as creating an innovative system and also making a territorial development creating new areas of research. I would also like to refer to an article by a researcher in Ramon Gras, who is working in Boston, and who spoke of the importance of creating a knowledge urbanism, in the sense that there have been scientific studies that reveal that cities that double the number of people working in knowledge-intensive activities, with geographical proximity to an urban area, the number of inventions, patents and new solutions to work is multiplied by four and the wealth created per resident is multiplied by twenty-five of medium, generating professional opportunities of quality, reducing the quality of life and raising standards of citizen life. That is why we are clear that we need to make a big bet for the transfer of knowledge, as it turns all this into wealth in the economic and cultural and social sense. That is why we also want to express in this motion Parliament's support for a key initiative to boost public support for the transfer of knowledge. In this sense, we are talking about the investment fund of advanced technologies, the FITA, approved and presented to the Government of the Generality, which the councilwoman has promoted, and we believe it is a great opportunity for Catalonia to give a boost to research projects that seek to establish themselves in markets through start-ups and also to regenerate urban areas, encouraging the knowledge economy and exponentially multiplying its social impact if it is strictly and creatively connected to industrial fabric. FITA is a future bet, and obviously, as always it is an ambitious bet, there will be projects that will come out well, from other projects that are not, but this is part of innovation: innovation is proof and success has always been tied to trying. Finally, a motion that marks the importance of research, its transference, the bet for health and all those impulses of technology, and the support also to emerging companies that arise from our knowledge system. It is to say, to give support to all those actions that vaginate aimed at converting the search into an excellent university engine. We have a country that, as Councillor Geis has pointed out on various occasions, has a robust search and knowledge base. The government's stake, with Junts' support for Catalonia, is to push this environment forward. Research and transfer initiatives like FITA are a good example of the country that we want Catalonia to be, a country that we aim for as an independent republic and that we want it to be bright, modern, creative, innovative and treacherous. That's why we'll support all the projects that are going to build this country model and we'll be on the side of the government to push them. Many thanks for listening to us and we hope to have the support of the entire parliamentary assembly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.93.0	Thank you very much. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.94.0	Good morning to everyone, deputies and deputies. Mrs Erra, the truth is that when I read her motion for a resolution I was quite surprised. And I've broken it down. The truth, that the group that supports the government and that, moreover, holds the Council of Universities and Research makes a proposal where it only supports generic things, the truth is that it is quite disappointing, especially for the challenges that it has not only the search, but the system of knowledge in Catalonia, which are many. We have made a concrete – very concrete – point about resources, about concrete resources that research needs. And not the resources that the Socialist Group says, but the whole sector said, at the national level for the knowledge society that was approved in May 2020, and in which it was concrete in a quarter of five were the increases that should have been made annually in the field of university and also in the field of research. So look, in the area of research, what is said is that university research should increase annually 32_million euros and non-university 18. Nor are they very scandalous figures, say, with a presumption of 46,000_million euros. Well, our goal was on this line. Miri, 2020 did not increase this; there was no such thing in the presupposition, the year that the national plan was approved, deu-n'hi-do! Nor was the year 2021, which was extended. And the year 2022, either. And we said, why don't we add the three years that are going on and we'll incorporate them, to put something concrete, which was a compromise not just from the government but from the whole system of knowledge. So the government turned us down, because it says the premise is already approved. Yes, yes, that's the penalty, that with an approved assumption there was no way to complete what the national pact says for the society of knowledge, that we repeat and that we comment. Miri, the search is in trouble. It's true, and we've said it many times, and it's tired and it's all listening to us. That the search has some very important levels of excellence in Catalonia, above any country with double the population that Catalonia, is certain. We established a successful search model, for the few resources we devote to it. That in total we dedicate some 200_million euros, in search, to Catalonia; it is not very, but we have great researchers. Now, we're in a lot of trouble. And I am surprised that in this motion for a resolution you have not implemented any programme. Look, they could have planted... and without going much further, huh? , because really at the national level for the knowledge society we already talk about. But, for example, investments in infrastructure – which are not in the presupposition – could have resulted in investments in concrete infrastructure. The national plan, for example, said: "To make a strategic plan of scientific and technological infrastructures for the proper years. So there might have been this proposal: "Look, let the government push this. Not even so alone... One of the things the plan also said was to increase the number of investigators until 2024. We don't know if he's making a plan, the government of the generality, he hasn't explained it to us by the councilwoman. So I could have proposed you too, Mrs. Erra, that. Not to mention the precariousness. If there's one thing we know about the research sector, it's that he's seen in a precarious situation. Now, with labour reform, this will certainly improve – I hope that all the groups in the Congress of Deputies will support it – but this is precisely a key element in the field of research: precariousness, temporality, right? , in a sector which is excellent, but not on its own terms. There could also have been some proposal. Also, for example, with innovation. At the national level for the knowledge society – I wanted to print –, look, there are exactly – exactly – three fulls dedicated to proposals in innovation, twenty-two in concrete. So some of these, some of these programs might have been set as a priority for this 2022. But no, the resources in innovation do not increase in the assumption of the Generality. And it's true that we're breaking the value chain of knowledge. We have knowledge, it is true, but we are not able to transfer it, not to transfer it but to impact on the economic fabric, not only in the creation of work places, but also in giving answer to global problems as we have. It has been the case of the pandemic, with a vaccine, but we have many other folds – in food, in the environment. And if we're not able to generate it and transfer it and it has an impact on it, give it back, so it seems to us that we're breaking this value chain. Look, and on the subject of the premise... because in the end the data are very objective and well understood. The year 2010 devoted 1.66_percent of GDP to research. Last year, we don't have 2021 data. 2020 was about 1.52_per_cent. It's not that we haven't just increased search resources in the last two years; it's that we've gone back. So if we really want to be a competitive country, and they see the answer that can be given to global challenges like what we've had with the pandemic, we need to invest more. And this PR, Mrs. Erra, we were pleased that it was concrete and that it could really help the research, more than cutting the scale, that it would not really help us to stay more competitive and we can move forward in this society every time more globalized. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.95.0	Now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.96.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Erra, first of all a previa. These days we have talked a lot in this Parliament about how the rule of law and the importance of judgments are working at the time of controlling actions, parliamentary decisions and execution. All right, Mrs. Erra, you, like the mayor of Vic, these days you've had a lesson from what is a state of law. You, like the mayor of Vic, banned us, our parliamentary group, our party, from making a tent for Vic's city, and your government team decided that because we were in the mood for good habits and morals, we couldn't put a tent for Vic. Well, a Catalan judge, a judge serving in this community, has decided that, in respect of political pluralism and the rights of the citizens of Catalonia, Citizens and other constitutionalist parties, and also other constitutionalist entities, have the right, logically, in democracy, to express their views.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.97.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I'd ask you, please, that it's ashes to the question of the young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.98.0	Thank you, President, for your flexibility. And yes, indeed, the one I gave you, Mrs. Erra. On the other hand, the motion that we are presented here today, effectively, as Mrs Romero said, we believe that it lacks concreteness in some aspects. But it is true that, in general, the vast majority of the points they present, the five points they present, to us seem totally acceptable. Yes, it is true that we consider that it is not at all, let's say, consistent with the way in which the Government of the Generality, which it has held as one of its own, to say it in some way, priorities, but in order, in the priority of the importance of its policies, the university and the investigation in various subjects, but also in the matter of salvation we say that it has not exactly been one of the priorities of this Government. We believe that there are many professionals in our community who are abused in professional terms, in terms of contract, in terms of media and resources. And, from this point of view, we consider that the government would have the option of doing many more things, precisely, to help, to help bring about many of the things that they say in this young man's office. However, in any case, we consider point 2 to be particularly uncertain when it says that it supports all activities of promotion... "The Parliament of Catalonia supports all actions of promotion of research in health in the field of universities, research centres, hospitals, unique scientific infrastructures, scientific parks and any other entity active in research, development and innovation, which may be considered an agent of the knowledge system. And we believe that this is a vision that would really guarantee... If it were to be seen that the Government actually held as its priority, it is very clear that this must be the vision, we believe that the Government would actually have a much more accessible, much more reasonable approach to the question of investigation in many respects, also in the investigation in the field of salvation, which we believe is, of course, one of the elements that must preside over our public activity. The university, unfortunately, in Catalonia continues to have huge problems that the government is certainly not addressing very forcefully, very clearly. And, in this sense, we believe, for example, that the fact that we in Catalonia continue to have a university system with the highest taxes in Spain continues to be an example of the extent to which Catalonia is still derived, by providing resources from the city council in Catalonia for activities or policies that are not, or should not be, if not, the priorities for our knowledge, for our human capital and, ultimately, for the development of our society. But, in any case, we insist: let us consider that this motion for a resolution, that this young man, rather, has very interesting elements. And, therefore, we have already announced that, of the five points that the motion has, we will vote in favour of four of them, and we will not vote in favour of the first, even though we have presented an issue that we considered to be an uncertain completion of its first point, which you have decided not to accept. From our point of view, I insist, we believe that our aim substantially improved this point, but perhaps the term country structure seemed to you irrefutable, in a proposal, I insist, a motion that had elements, indeed, interesting, and that we would continue to vote, by responsibility, on a good part of your motion. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.99.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.100.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. "Research is necessary to influence people's lives, to influence progress, to influence well-being. This was told to you, Mrs. Erra, Consteller Geis, in response to the inquiry of the past plenary. I have no pain in giving you reason, because the VOX Parliamentary Group in Catalonia does not influence us with the fanaticism that characterizes you, to the point of reaching such extremes as that of coming to reject each and every one of the proposals that we have recorded in Parliament during this parliamentary term, even if let us say that the Earth is round or that freedom of expression is a fundamental right, or that the rectors must guarantee the ideological and political neutrality of the university to which they represent. But there you are. The Catalans on foot have already taken their registration, you know very well that you only defend your party interests. In this motion of Junts, the proposing group uses the research tortically convert it into a state structure. I remind you that the ultimate end of the investigation is the person, each of the Catalans, the improvement of their living conditions, not the establishment of a sectarian republic party. Talent and knowledge must be pillars of our society; made up of people, do not forget. But not by creating a new consultancy, we have already secured progress. It is necessary to distinguish technological advances that benefit the common good of others that cause moral, social, cultural and economic deterioration of people. For example, in your motion you propose to boost deep tech technologies, which are related to artificial intelligence, robotics, digitization, but you do not require a single concrete measure to protect people who will lose their jobs by the inexorable automation of production chains. In addition, adequate funding is also needed to consolidate the pillars of research. Mr Lafuente, the rector of the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, and president of the ACUP, told me last week in committee that they had not yet defined, they had not made concrete with Mrs Geis the model of financing for the universities. I was as puzzled as I was when I observed the ambiguity, the lack of rigour and the lack of criticism of this motion that you put before us, Mrs Erra. If you really want to promote research in universities and research centres, demand an end to the current imbalance in research funding. What do I mean? To three basic questions: the results of scientific indicators at universities and nearby centres are similar, especially much more in favour of universities when the cost/performance variable is introduced. On the other hand, in the last SGR call, university research centers received a forty_and_nine_per_cent of the funding, although of the 35,000 scientific publications, more than 17,000 – more than 17,000 – were from public universities, and 12,000 from nearby centers; the rest, from other entities and individuals. And despite, too, that sixty_and_three_per_cent of the research groups are in universities. And finally, the nearby centers receive triple funding: direct core funds, teaching provided by universities without compensation – it has a negative impact on the renewal of the seedlings – and SGR. Why is university centres being discriminated against in funding? Remember: 89_million go to nearby centers, and 39_million to university centers. This does not match what you say in your point 5. You support – and you have said it here – the FITA investment fund. I suppose you will know all the details of the criteria for allocating these funds, because we are talking about EUR 60 million. That is, six times as much as the budget that the Generalitat uses to help families. I'm done. The talent is more than remarkable in Catalonia, but because of the government flees from home. Sixty_per_cent of the researchers are hired on a temporary basis, with contracts of work and service, and for periods, moreover, less than the duration of their projects and scholarships. Your salary is around €1,100_monthly. Moreover, its innovation is more valued and integrated in the companies of France, Germany and even the rest of Spain. Stop expelling talent, please. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.101.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.102.0	Thank you, President. Well, then, in this motion presented by the Junts Group..., say that we would mostly vote in favour of it – in fact, in points 1 2 3 and 5 – because we share enough what they say, starting from the base that is very generic and that does not go too far to define anything, but speaks to us about finding, giving support, etc. Therefore, we can assume it, as well as a few small nuances that we might do in some of the points, but well, we can assume it with the group. What we can't take is vote point number 4, which we understand is actually the star point of this young man presenting us, where we're talking about the investment fund in advanced technologies, right? , that really, so, that's the subject, for us, of this young man. And we will not support this point, because in this young man it is a woman to understand that private spin-offs become the main axis of the search here, of this country. And, for us, universities and public research centres must be cutting-edge in this country and, therefore, must be better financed structurally. And this young man isn't talking about the problem we have, is he? This is the infra-financing they've been through for years. And it is good to understand that, sadly, the only ones who need help are these spin-offs and that there are to be invested 60_million between 2022 and 2026, when we think that it is much more necessary to put all this money in increasing the assumptions of universities and public research and not just for this concrete proposal. All this, we are clear, therefore, that this government will pull it forward, this fund of risk capital investment, and it will, as they have announced, mediate public competition, make a contract for the selection and award of the manager of this fund, right? That is to say, a company that will be responsible for the management of public funds, that will decide how and when to invest the capital invested for the partners, yes, following the criteria, we understand, of the investment policy fixed to the bid. But in the end, what they're saying with all this is that they privatize public money management again. I in the ho can share. All public money must be managed and controlled by the administration itself, in order to guarantee it a good use and, above all, to regulate from which will be the patents and which social and economic return tend, and also guarantee good working conditions. And here we could hear each other: all the money in public research and back to their own society. In fact, it is said that of every hundred investments in this type of spin-off returns one, that this, in fact, ends up making up for the rest. And we understand that if what they're trying to do is put public money at these private investments, they won't find us, but if what they're trying to do is to make public this space that was so far in private hands to the hundred percent, and what they're trying to do is to invest in these businesses – which really interest society, not just the market – we could come to terms with it. I can't go in there, either. We need more funding for basic research; we need more funding for universities to develop technologies that require years of progress and maturity. It must also be said that in this case, therefore, the words 'persons' or'strengthening and stabilising human resources' or 'improving the working conditions of researchers' do not arise at all. For much that we want to do excellent science or create many spin-offs, if the groups do not have the possibility of contracting or donating a minimum of stabilization to the technicians, nothing can work, because all the adventures that are fan and know-how that are always developing are stuck with a thread. And there are only two of us talking about very concrete camps, curiously the very ones that wanted to finance the Next Generation funds. And it's obvious they're pulling around because it's a lot easier to generate patents and create businesses, but there's a lot of other areas missing. Where are sociology, language, geography or genera studies? , to say a few examples. We are reducing the wide spectrum of science and knowledge of sanitation, being culturally and theoretically ballsed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.103.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.104.0	The truth is, we're a little disappointed in this young man. Or, as the inquiry went on, the debate that shortly after was built around innovation, research, networks, public media, we hoped for a motion that, like at least a little bit more there, and at least located, donated that to the parliamentary group that holds the university and research council, which are for the department and its parliamentary group the key plans and policies to develop this legislature and which are the search tractor projects that it wants to promote during this legislature. As a minimum – as a minimum – we expected this, given that it was a motion of an interesting inquiry, and that it was interesting to start the year there. And what we find is a young man who basically does two things: he realizes that research and innovation are important – that it's a consensus that I think we've all come up with – and he supports the different expressions that search has in our home, right? So, hello, deep tech research, emerging companies, and excellence teaching. Clearly, however, we honestly believe that parliamentary groups are not support groups or encouragement ranks, and that they have not passed..., there has been no open discussion that binds us as Parliament or that, let us say it, somehow obliges us to position ourselves in favour of research and innovation; there has been no conflict with any recently deserved research projects in our country; there is no debate between people who are against research and innovation and people who are in favour of it. And, therefore, we understand that the motions cannot be as generalistic and as little descriptive of reality or as undressed by concrete public policies on which we can position ourselves as parliamentary groups. What we share of the motion – and that is why we will abstain and not vote against it – is that we surely need to regain the ambition in the debate at the time of thinking about what is going on with Catalonia, what is happening with its research sector, what is happening especially with innovation in Catalonia and, therefore, with the transfer of the knowledge we generate at the time of moving it to the joint venture of society, especially the economy, but not only to the economic sectors of society. And we think this debate has to be built in a little more ambitious than just statements of support. At least, we see two things. Diagnosis. We believe that the diagnosis of these last fifteen years of research in Catalonia is a negative diagnosis. We went back in search, we went back in innovation. In fact, in innovation we are weakly strong in our country, and therefore it has to be a diagnostic that situates the obvious problems that we have in this area in Catalonia; not only economics and assumptions, but also other problems that we already have to put in a proper horizon, such as the generational replenishment. There has been a generation that was seeking out in this country, that has gone looking for other countries. There's been a gluttony of obvious talent. And now there's a generation that's retired, and that doesn't have full guarantees in universities or research centers, and when it's jubilee, it'll lower competitiveness in all those projects that are set up for competition. And we must be able to be ambitious at the time of thinking about how we are already building generational replenishments for the next five-two years. And as, therefore, we make talent recovery programs and make programs not only to capture the talent that has left us, but also to retain the research talent that continues today in Catalonia living in a situation of precariousness, which will eventually drive them out of search to our home. And, therefore, at this point, let us consider, for example, that a debate should take place at the time of building public policies. But there's... beyond the elements that we've been trying to place in a research and innovation movement, there's a lot of work we've already done, which is the national pact for the knowledge society, and which is not just the space for concertation and participation of all political groups and social actors that generate research and knowledge in our home, but it's also the central space to end up driving research as a transformation engine into our home. And, therefore, we understand that, at the very least, a serious diagnosis of the situation and an ambitious planning of the future of research in our home passes through an ambitious call of the national pact for the society of knowledge, because we review the objectives, because we review where we are, because they modify it in some points, if we can modify it, but why we plan ambitiously, and presumably and economically the future of our country's search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.105.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.106.0	Thank you, President. Well, reading this young man, it happened to me that Mrs. Romero: I was surprised positively. You're funny. First of all, because hearing Mrs. Erra talk about these things, overcoming the ramps that give her from time to time, so it's always a motif of satisfaction and proof that with a little of good will it's all possible in this life. The second is for the content, curiously, concise and precise, which pleases. Because we already know that the motions never fill them; so, as much as they don't abhor, don't they? And that, therefore, is the truth that it is grateful that it is very precise in its content. And about the contents, a couple of precisions too. First of all, this isn't the first time we've had this debate here. As a reminder, indeed, Catalonia has been ahead of innovation in Spain and Europe for a long time, with a particularly bright stage between the years 99 and 2004, which coincided with a stage of collaboration. It was Andreu Mas-Colell the councillor, and the ministers, first Piqué and Birulés, to the Government of Spain. But then – and it's not the first time we mention it either – so we're ahead of a lost decade. The "lost decade" is an expression not mine, but of rectors and Catalan investigators, who in a previous plenary made a list of these. The second question that also comes into play and that seems to me good that in speaking is that this historical leader in Catalonia, who has manifested himself in Severo Ochoa projects, in publications of all kinds, has always had a problem of technological transfer to the world of the enterprise. It's a structural failure of the innovation system in Catalonia and Spain, and it's good that you're doing just to the question, because it didn't just solve. Therefore, we will vote affirmatively for the whole motion, and we will only ask for a separate vote from point 1 for the same reasons that Mr Martín Blanco has well explained; they are exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.107.0	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word now Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.108.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Look, I can hear some of the criticisms that have been made of the motion, but this motion is positive and brings direction and intent. He talks about our universities, about the need to give new embrazzida to research in general; he talks indirectly about caring for the people who are dedicated to it, who feel that the Administration is a facilitator; he talks about worrying about improving the obligation to transfer knowledge to society and to the business fabric. This young man talks about talent; he talks about researchers and researchers. From the study of point-to-point treatments against breast cancer to vaccines against the last diseases, such as that of the covid, which has just been tested. We talk about people who dedicate themselves to it by vocation, but also by conviction, and because they know that their work will have a recognition, changing people's lives better. But it's true that with chips on the scale neither food nor piss is paid. We talk about the Nuria, Laura, or we talk, for example, about the Marc, who is in Antarctica investigating the climate change and studying its evolution, with 24,000 euros a year, twelve payments. They need to know that we are also working to improve their conditions. With a forty-three_per_cent increase and almost 90 million additional euros for research policies, we are sure that it is time to be ambitious too in this sense. And that's why we have to start by solving all the shortcomings, and sometimes injustices, that lack of adequate funding has caused years long. That is why it is important to note, as this young man does, that research is an indispensable element for progress and social welfare. It is therefore essential to send this explicit support message to the initiatives that arise from our research entities – technological institutes, research centres, etc. How basic it is also to focus now, to a greater extent, on those initiatives that have to do with health or with leading technologies, such as microelectronics or nanotechnology. We need to promote all those ideas that imply an impulse to the transfer of knowledge and the actions that wander in the line of turning research into the engine of university excellence. We need to make research a backbone of the country, and we have the duty to pass on to the entire society all the knowledge generated by our researchers and researchers. Research must have an impact on people's lives, it must transform territories. We need more research to develop innovative initiatives, such as, for example, the hydrogen valley in Tarragona, and bring them to reality. A project led by the University of Rovira and Virgili in which its rector, María José Figueras, has apostated to be'self-involved, and in which there are more than one hundred and sixty companies and top-level entities involved. It's an example. A project that must be the engine of change in the economy of Tarragonian regions; a project that makes us look at Catalonia of the future and that is the example of excellence that research can achieve in our country, as well as a good example of the incidence that research can have in the life of a territory, creating places of value added, the model that we really need to advance. Every euro invested in research can multiply greatly and return to society in the form of better lives. And lastly, we also need research to know where to lead our society and its economic growth: sustainability, climate change, the need to transform our industry, medicine. The company will continually face us back and it will be the search that will help us to know how to approach them. They are some impressive challenges that we need to prepare for, because we will have to face them; the way we do it is more and better invested in research, in the network and in search infrastructures, but also inverted and betting for people who make the search. They're waiting for us, I think it's worth the bet. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.109.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.110.0	Thank you very much, President. To answer a little to everyone, so, first of all, thank all the support on the ground in this young man, because I know that there is this recognition, this bet for the research and for the university world of our country. And, obviously, this is Constable Geis's bet, and in the background here it's got a lot of lines, obviously, a lot of way to go, but we're waiting for everyone's support. In this case, Mr Romero, thank you, of course; I know you share all these challenges and the way we have to do, but ask for more money in a premise than just – I've already commented on it – we just changed, when you didn't give it to him now, and sometimes it's not quite coherent. To Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco I would also like to say that if you are so concerned about university taxes... we are surprised, because in the ILP of universities that is in progress you have not presented any papers. To Mr. Cornellà... obviously, all this graces everyone's support, huh? , but clarify some concepts. Tell him that on the FITA theme..., it is 30_million in five years and what we want is to water it, therefore, 30 more, obviously, of private funds. For us, it's an important project and we're going to throw it forward. And also, that in all these areas that he comments – sociology, language... –, it will be approved, soon – that has already been commented on –, a fund that will go from 23 to 39 million. I to Mr. Lucas Ferro, eh? , also giving him thanks and knowing that he shares, therefore, the concern for the university world, but also making it clear that in the assumptions of the State..., and above all because with the concern that you say of the repositioning rate..., you in the assumptions of the State voted against it. So, let's just say there's a few times that you just didn't hear it all. Still, thanking them for all the support, we know that with the country we have a lot of work to do. And before it was over, and since there was someone who came to me not as the deputy, but as the mayor, and I think that... I don't think we're here at Vic's plethora. But obviously, if you don't know how hard it is, President, and today we have had to listen, above all, to Mr. Martín Blanco, great activists, I will also talk to him about an activist, an activist who also defended people's civil rights a lot, huh? Mr. Martin Luther King, who said, "It's always the right time to do the right thing. As the mayor and as the government of the city, in defense of language, of my city, of school and of the country, we will continue to do this, because we believe it is the right one. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.111.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on items 17 to 22 of the agenda. [[Dani Cornellà Detrell asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cornellà...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.112.0	It's to ask that in point 18... we would if they could separate the 4 and the 7.d, and in point 20, the 3 and the 3.1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.113.0	3 and 3.1. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.114.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.115.0	Thank you. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.116.0	To the paper that has passed from separate votes, in point 22, we would need to vote separately on 3 and 4, together, and the 1 that is already predicted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.117.0	All right, the three of them separately. All right, thank you. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies to encourage birth and address the demographic winter (continuation)]] [[302-00076/13]] So we proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on policies to encourage birth and demographic winter. We will vote, first of all, points 1, 2 and 7. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 14 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 3 and 4. The vote begins. These points have also not been approved, with 11 votes in favour, 123 votes against. We're voting points 5, 6 and 8. The vote begins. These points have also not been approved, with 20 votes in favour and 114 votes against. And finally, we vote for point 9. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 11 votes in favour, 117 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the field of anti-racism (continuation)]] [[302-00083/13]] We proceed to vote on point 18, the motion following the question to the Government on the actions of the Department of Equality and Feminism in the field of anti-racism. We'll vote first on the first point of the encapsulation. The vote begins. This point received 108 votes in favour, 20 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point two of the cap now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 105 votes in favour, 29 votes against. We'll vote now, in the second block, point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point received 105 votes in favour, 20 against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point 3 in his cap and point 3.b and 3.c. The vote begins. These points were approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting 3rd, 8th and 8th points now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 14 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 4 and 7.d now. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, separate. So fem first... I'm sorry, I'm putting it on pause. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has received 105 votes in favour and 29 votes against. We're voting now point number 7.d. The vote begins. This point received 114 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point seven now, letters to and b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting now on point 7.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 120 votes in favour and 14 votes against. We're voting now on point 8.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of people without homelessness (continuation)]] [[302-00077/13]] Let's go vote on the point of day number 19. We will vote in the first place points 1, 2, 4, 9 and 12. The vote begins. These points were approved with 134 votes in favour. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point received 70 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point received 120 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point received 120 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point received 113 votes in favour, 11 against, 9 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We'll vote now for the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of young women (continuation)]] [[302-00078/13]] Let's go vote on the 20th. We'll start by voting point number two. The vote begins. This point received 61 votes in favour, 9 against and 64 abstentions. Let's proceed to vote point 3 in its cap and point 3.1. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, therefore, only the 3rd with encapsulation. Yeah? [[Pause.]] We're voting three with a cap. The vote begins. This point received 119 votes in favour and 15 abstentions. We're voting point 3.1 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 134 votes in favour. We're voting point 3.2 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 125 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point received 70 votes in favour and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point received 50 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point has been rejected, with 62 votes in favour and 72 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point received 59 votes in favour, 11 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 120 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 134 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the disposition of children and families claiming right to partake as a minimum of twenty-five percent of school hours in the castle (continuation)]] [[302-00079/13]] We vote for the point of day number 21. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 53 votes in favour and 81 votes against. We're voting points 2 and 5. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 81 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point received 9 votes in favour, 81 votes against and 44 abstentions. And we're voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 20 votes in favour and 114 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the search and transfer of knowledge as key axes of the knowledge society (continuation)]] [[302-00080/13]] And finally, we vote on the last of the motions on today's agenda, the twenty-second item on today's agenda. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. This point received 73 votes in favour, 17 against and 44 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 5. The vote begins. These points were approved with 93 votes in favour and 41 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 82 votes in favour and 52 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved with 73 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 52 abstentions. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you. The session is suspected to be three-quarters of two in the middle and eight minutes and is resumed at four in the late and two minutes. Chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First Vice-President, the Second Vice-President, the First Secretary, the Second Secretary and the Third Secretary. Attend the General Secretariat and the Ileter Ferran Domínguez Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.118.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse of mediation and alternative conflict resolution methods]] [[302-00081/13]] We resume the session on the twenty-third item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the impulse of mediation and the alternative methods of conflict resolution, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word, to make the presentation of the motion, the MP Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.119.0	Thank you very much, President. It will advise, deputies and deputies, from the first civilizations, that the right has participated in the lives of people and has placed order in the personal relationships between humans; it has laid standards of coexistence of society. In a complex society, people live with and without parental bonds, and they are not connected through alliances. And, therefore, there has to be a regulation of these relationships. And that's why we have the right. It is in this report that the right finds justification. Now, just as society has evolved, we find other ways, such as mediation, that can respond to problems arising from living together in a society. And it is that Catalonia has shown that we are a peaceful and civic society, that we like to solve our problems by talking, seeking consensus and reaching agreement. From here, too, the agreements that we have had with the group from this young man, that's what we say when people talk about each other. Thank you to Congressman Apparicio for his predisposition. Now, we're also jealous of what we've won over, those skills that are ours and we need to be respected. We cannot afford more interference from the State; much less from a politicized justice. And, as shown, a button: the attack on the català. The mediating Catalonia is the one that wants to resolve the conflicts, seeking an agreed solution and without coercive impositions that cause, on many occasions, the rebroadcast of the one who has to assume them in a forced manner. When they are voluntarily assumed, individual responsibility makes them committed to making them effective. Mediation, as an alternative to the judicial process, is proving that another way of doing things is possible. The resolution of conflicts is faster and we avoid lengthy legal proceedings for the people involved; cases that are always unpleasant for some of the parties and emotionally affect their day to day until the solution is found. The mediation returns the cost one seventy-five percent and the duration one eighty-five percent. This cost reduction also allows access to those most vulnerable people who can't afford to get out of justice to find a solution to the conflict. Counselor, her bet for Catalonia mediator is firm and shows that there is a great deal of commitment to acquit and consolidate this project. We are moving towards a more cohesive and democratic society, at least in our country, Catalonia. With this motion we urge the Government to enhance mediation and alternative methods of conflict resolution through the Catalonian Mediation Centre, together with public right-wing corporations and local administrations. Also, promote the inter-departmental mediation commission and alternative conflict resolution methods, so as to work in a cross-cutting and coordinated manner with the rest of the departments providing these mediation services. Associate, too, the compromise to fill in the draft law of prevention, management and resolution of conflicts within a year. To end, claim once more that the State respects our competences – in this case, exclusive – that are contemplated in the Spanish Constitution; this Constitution is that some groups serve only for whom they are concerned, mainly from an ancient point of view, and voluntarily and in a manner that is interested in the personal rights and collections that regulate them. And taking advantage of the adversity, speaking of attacks on personal and collective rights, to denounce once more the situation suffered by the secretary of the Bureau, the deputy Juvillà, and to thank the president of the Parliament for her firm and compromised respect for and defence of the rights of the deputies and deputies of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.120.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There is now the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.121.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Members and Members, let me, first of all, send a greeting to the justice team of our parliamentary group, the Viñuale and Aparicio deputies, who make such a good team that they have even decided, therefore, to contract the covid together, right? I, therefore [[relays]] , it's up to this MP to make the intervention respect this young man. However, it must be said, the work that has been done, has been done by the Member, in this case, Aparicio, as the representative of the group that drives the young person has rightly said. That's a young lady, when we hear it, deceiving. And it's for a lot of reasons. They are setting up a motion to urge the government to draft a draft law on prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, but they did so without even setting a deadline to draft it. With our attachment we have been able to delimit it to a maximum of twelve months. And that, according to the regulations in force, this rule should have been approved before July of last year. And, in fact, according to the same rule of government that was going to prove everything just one month ago, it had to be approved in the first quarter of January. So let's be late. For another band, in the House, the Spanish government respects the competitions in mediation in the regulation they are preparing. We understand that this is and so says the current erasure of the law, which gives complete freedom to the competent administrations to manage, in the manner they deem appropriate, the constitution of alternative conflict resolution services that are more ad hoc. As we pointed out in one of the unaccepted items, the government should bet on collaboration, co-governance and strengthening synergies with the central government, and not on victimism and perpetual confrontation. But the most disappointing thing about this question and this motion, as we understand it, is that a law is laid down for the resolution of conflicts, but in truth it refers only to a method: mediation. And they always do that from the intrusive. And so, they urge the government to draft the draft law on prevention, management and resolution of conflicts to systematize existing legislation in mediation. because it is perceived as a valid, close and trusting tool. Catalonia had always been the autonomous pioneer community in these questions, but we are standing back. The alternative resolution of conflicts went far beyond mediation, far beyond judicial derivation. With the papers we've submitted to you, we've tried to make it open to other methods of alternative conflict resolution. Look, our group has already proposed and approved in the case of the Alternative Government, last September of last year, a document that marked the basis of what should be an alternative conflict resolution system, beyond mediation. We proposed the adoption of other harmful methods of alternative conflict resolution, such as conciliation or arbitration, which already apply successfully in some harmful areas. But we brought other methods that set up a novelty to Catalonia and Spain, such as a neutral prejudicial assessment, an advanced determination of experts, technical expert report or/ and judicial expert report, for issuing preliminary legal opinions or certain aspects of the future legal dispute, all methods that would serve as the basis for an out-of-court agreement. But if the will was to bet on alternative conflict resolution, they have other measures that they could apply immediately without needing to legislate. Like, for example, the creation of a mediation guidance service in all judicial parties, or that all judicial bodies have an alternative dispute resolution service, and not as it happens now, which is limited to a few judicial bodies. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the range of services already provided by the Autonomous Administration, the local administrations and public law corporations of Catalonia, to make the alternative resolution of conflicts an effective and known tool both for the private economic sector and, why not? , also for the public. We want to take this challenge and do it from the perspective that the courts should not be the places where conflict resolution begins, but rather the places where conflict ends, after they have used alternative methods of resolution. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.122.0	Thank you very much. Then, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.123.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We find a motion by Junts per Catalunya on mediation, which is a missed occasion. Because we could support a motion that enhances mediation – we believe in it a lot – but we cannot support a motion that is believed to be our beloved region to be the founder of this method of conflict resolution – nor are we the navel of the world – and that wants to continue to break the unity of the market and equality between Spaniards. Mediation is a classic, natural and long-term system for conflict resolution. With mediation we can resolve many conflicts that are currently dealt with by the courts in a partial, costly and unsatisfied manner for the parties. Family conflicts. For example, I have found a lot, so cases of separations, visiting regimes, grandparents, uncles, that are not regulated in our regulations and mediation is the best tool to get out of these conflicts. Business conflicts between suppliers, by quality, by terms, that with the courts become expensive and break that business relationship, and with good mediation can maintain that business relationship over time. Or community conflicts, for example, of sound, of space occupation, with mediation we can find what the regulations sometimes do not arrive, and be able to resolve that street conflict. Mediation is a system of conflict resolution that bases its success on that, in which it is neutral, that it is the parties that voluntarily reach an agreement with the help of a professional, and that avoids costly processes in time, in money, and that are often traumatic, such as judicial processes – which sometimes have to be resorted to – and, of course, the resolution is easier to comply with, because it is part of the will, of the agreement to which the two parties have arrived. After this praise to the mediation, on behalf of my parliamentary group, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, I must warn that mediation does not serve all conflicts – warning to navigators. For example, mediation with rapists cannot be applied, mediation with hacienda defrauders cannot be applied, and mediation with those who want to break our unity and coexistence with the coups. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Having said that, and entering into the proposals of this motion, you do not want to enhance mediation, you with this motion want to continue to complicate the life of Catalans, creating a new commission that would be more expensive for Catalans, creating a law of its own, foreign to Spanish, to regulate and enhance mediation. What budget would deepen the inequality between Spaniards and continue to annihilate the regulatory unit and the market unit? You separatists complicate Catalan life with their proposals – yes, they complicate it – who live with the rest of Spain in common ties and who have commercial relations with the rest of Spain. Or those companies that want to enter our nation also complicate their lives with seventeen regulations. Because with their autonomous laws they generate normative division and confusion. And that is why we remind them that we are going to recover Catalonia for the Catalans, and that that happens to stop closing us in ourselves, to open us to the rest of Spain and to Europe, and to end the normative inequality. We shall therefore vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.124.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.125.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, the motion that presents us together and that has been somewhere negotiated with the Socialist Party..., we will make the following considerations. See, for what it does to urge the Spanish Government in the elaboration of the preliminary draft of the law of procedural efficiency of the public service of justice to respect the competences of Catalonia that it exercises in the matter of mediation, at this point, that it is the last point, we vote in favour, because, as we have said many times since this event, Catalonia has exclusive competence in civil law – and this is a matter, mediation, of civil law; therefore, private law – and this also includes determining the sources of the right and also the power to dictate the procedural standards that it has with this civil right. Therefore, from the CUP, any regulation or any non-regulation – or we are going to see how far this regulation has to go – that it is in defence of the competitions that in its day were legitimately assumed by this Parliament, we will vote in favour, because we understand that this is where decisions are to be taken and not at the Congress of Deputies. In fact, Catalonia has a long tradition, above all, in the field of mediation in the event of the breakdown of couples of coexistence and the relationship of these couples with their parents, and in 2001 we already had all the legislation that did not exist in other territories. Now, for what it does at the point where it is asked to draft, in the term of twelve months, the draft law of prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, to systematize the existing rules with mediation and alternative methods of resolution of the conflict, to see, here what we want to say is that this does not have to come because this young man is coming or not coming, but it has already been approved by Law 9/2020 of 31 July, amending the book according to the Civil Code, where at its final disposition it is precisely already said that in twelve months this standard text was to be completed. We see that the term that was legal and the work still has passed..., "the warmest is to the water, which is said, and this regulation has not been done. Therefore, we will vote in favour, but not because the honourable Member says so, but because it is a legislative mandate that has been incomplete for some time now. Yes, we're interested that it's carried like the bill of law, because we accept the initial premise that competition is ours, okay? , and, therefore, we have to start this debate, the one that happens, that we want to start the fund debate and discuss what this mediating Catalonia is, using the terminology that serves the motion presented by Junts. Because it's true that there's a judicial system that doesn't work, and it's a good thing that this judicial system will work. It is a system that is slow, that is ineffective, that generates frustration, that generates mistrust of the citizenry and that is extremely unfair. And it's extremely unfair in a lot of feelings, but, like the last examples we have, I want to refer to the feeling that disables Pau Juvilà for having stuck some deep loops. Or it'll be extremely unfair, too, won't it? In this judgment of which we have now known, only a few minutes ago, which is scheduled for March 1, which also seeks to disqualify Congresswoman Eulàlia Reganting for a crime, too, of disobedience of which she is accused and from here we show all our solidarity. So, there's a system that's unfair and that's hoping it'll get better. The one that happens, that we must not give up changing this system. Why do we have to ask ourselves a question: really the solution is the alternative resolution of conflicts, which can be very and very varied? Because, in the background, what we are calling for is a system of private justice. Because the decision to resort to alternative conflict resolution systems is not a technical decision, it's a political decision, and that touches on the question of self-government. Rather than donating mercantilist solutions to an individual problem, which helps us to build, in terms of democracy, collective solutions. And justice has a public dimension that alternative conflict resolution systems don't have. Are we willing to privatize the conflict? , conflict that, for another band, many times acts as a gearbox? They're asking what we do and what we want to be able to answer in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.126.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.127.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, I'm not the head of the commission either; it's company Jordan, who's on parental leave. I think, at the rate we're going, when you start processing this, you'll be back in. But in any case, I left a pair or three of considerations. I'm a scientist. And I did a master of political science and I had to make a bridge course. And among them, I had a professor of law, Ricardo García Manrique, sad to know of some incidents – I think that deeply unfair to him at university–, who, in one of the conversations that we had with him – I remember very much that assignment, because he was a very good teacher–, told us something so that the right ran the risk of dying successfully, didn't he? , that in societies, before modernity, the right did not occupy all the spaces of resolving society's conflicts. There were other institutions – the traditional family, the Catholic Church and other community institutions – that had occupied other decision-making roles in a community, and that the right was assuming decision-making space that it was not that close to it, but that on which we had not built any type of alternative and that, therefore, we had what is known as "improper litigation", we have judicialized many things of our social and political life. We have talked about this, for example, in the case of the trial court, that justice occupied a space of resolution that was eminently political, but we can also talk about it at the company's side. How many conflicts between veins, between relatives, between businesses, that would have to have another institutionality, another social community area if it could be resolved, that it was not only the administrative judicial way, but that they did not have it and that they help, let us say, to saturate and demand that justice follow the only area of conflict resolution. In this sense, we are in favour of space and mechanisms and institutionalizing different forms of reaching agreements and preserving the dialogue and assuming alternate spaces to conflict resolution. And we believe that there are many areas of experience in the business, in the family, in conflicts between families, in conflicts related to the field of salvation, in restorative, restorative justice... in school, for example. Since we are talking about it so much and there are conflicts that fly over some of the country's schools, it is surely one of the most space that has built spaces for the resolution of alternating conflicts and that, in essence, help us to reduce the saturation of the Administration of Justice, but also to reduce the costs of the resolution of conflicts in our country and that can therefore be interesting spaces. We'll wait at the beginning of the process of the law, because there are also elements that concern us; the CUP company has not identified some. We don't want it to privatize conflict resolution spaces. We understand, therefore, that they must be tools for the service of the citizenry, for the service of the community, and that, therefore, we must work on the public title of these tools. And we want them to be tools that allow us to democratize the right to conflict resolution, don't we? I'm not saying that we've got the judicial, the administrative, because it's a public and universal way, but surely in this entremig in small conflicts, so that many citizens have community institutions and have better institutions would be much more adventurous. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of this motion. We will abstain at the last point; in part, for which the company has commented. We are aware that the processing of the law does not involve competition, but, man, in a resolution of mediation and alternative resolution of conflicts, I am sure that, in the table of the dialog and in the areas of concertation that we already have built, this issue would have to be solved without any type of problem. And, therefore, at this point we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.128.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.129.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, of course, we all know that we have state rules for mediation and then we have autonomous rules. This State legislation, which is Law 5/2012 on mediation in civil and commercial matters, develops a Community directive of 2008 which considers and recommends to Member States that encourage recourse to mediation. There is a _real state decree of 2013 that develops some aspects of this law of 2012. Moreover, there is now a preliminary draft law on measures of procedural effectiveness of the public justice service which basically regulates forms of termination of conciliation proceedings, different methods of pre-jurisdictional negotiation, ex officio lawyers for mediation, possible convictions in mediation costs. And, on the other hand, here in Catalonia we have a law..., we had a law in 2001 on family mediation, and one in force, of 15 of 2009, on mediation in the field of private law, which, by the way, came from a 2005 reform that introduced family mediation into family procedures. This law of 2005, state. And now he asks us, the Junts per Catalunya Group, that Parliament instruct the government to draft a bill, because they assume that this preliminary draft to which I referred a moment ago could violate Catalan competences in this area. Well, for the time being, what we have to say is that we already, in all normality, have a law in force in the State and we have a law in force here, in our autonomous community. Therefore, as in any decentralized state, it is absolutely possible for everyone to rule in the field of their competences. But already this request, this proposal that is brought to us today, part of the basis of the suspicion that the State..., the victimistic suspicion that the State is going to trample on the competences of our autonomous community. And then you ask us for a white letter and no limits so that this Mediator Catalonia will rise, like Phoenix bird, from those ashes to which this evil state leaves her confined. The truth is that I trust more that the state does not trample upon us the competences that we, with you at the front, exceed the competences that we have attributed, and that nothing happens, because this is how it is done in all the decentralized states of the world. And another thing happens, oysters! , which is normal, which is that mediation is deeply intertwined with judicial proceedings and methods of ending conflicts, or avoiding conflicts, or resorting to courts. To you..., several of you have mentioned that « clear, as you do not trust in justice, as there is the Juvillà case, for..., and the case of Mrs. Reguant, for listen, because then we do not trust and we cannot go to justice, we have to go to the mediation of Catalonia mediator. They will understand that they are very poor arguments, very nationalistic and closed-minded, and that we cannot endorse this. We are not going to oppose it, because we believe in mediation, just as the European Union believes by means of its rules and directives. And, therefore, we will not object to it being legislated in Catalonia in the field of our competences. But, logically, we are not going to support a motion that is not just in its wording, but also in the explanations of the Members, because it seems that it aims at something quite different than the legitimate search for a regulation that helps our citizens; it does not generate more conflicts with the State and that it puts them more in evidence, no, that it helps everyone to have Catalan society settle their disputes in an easy way. If you want to legislate, do it, but don't put on the stretch before the wound. We will be awaiting the text that is being brought to us by the Government and will be involved in its improvement. And bring it, if that makes you feel any better, this project. We won't oppose it. But neither can we vote in favour of this proposal which you bring us here and which is even dedicated to confronting justice. A justice, by the way, in which you little mediate with the officials of justice, little mediate with the officials of prisons, little money dedicate – and I finish now, Madam President – to justice, to mediation. Of the 1,100_million scarce that you have devoted in the last budgets to justice, 1,100,000 is what has been devoted to mediation in these last budgets. It does not seem, you, that you believe much in this method of mediating Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.130.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Let's move on to the Republican Left Parliamentary Group. Mr Jordi Orobig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.131.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, Catalonia has a long tradition in the field of mediation and peaceful resolution of conflicts. To the title of example, already in the 11th century were the assemblies of pau and treva of God, eh? , that some identify as the bressol of parliamentarianism and serve to appease and minimize the effects of all violent conflicts. Their agreements ended up setting up Catalan legal texts and the Curia of Barcelona, until they influenced the drafting of the Uses and formed constitutions and other rights of medieval Catalonia. These are the assemblies that Pau Casals – no Pablo Casals, as the Royal House says – recalled before the UN General Assembly in his historic speech of October 24, 1971 in the opening act of the anthem of the United Nations, of which he is the composer. Following the thread of this historical tradition, the movement that we are dealing with today wants to value mediation, and it does so at a perfect time – I understand that it is also looking for purpose –, as it is the mark of activities convened on the occasion of the European Day of Mediation, the past 21 of generation, and that it is developing until the 22 of February to commemorate the approval of the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to the member states on family mediation. Another element that allows us to deal with this young man today is the fear that the threat generates – justified by the historian – that the regulation that matter is promoted from the Spanish state to the government and parliament of Catalonia. In this context, giving continuity to the dynamics that were strongly promoted the legislative passes with the councillors Mundó and Capella, the movement urges the Government to strengthen, through the Mediation Centre of Catalonia, together with public law corporations and local administrations, mediation and alternative methods of conflict resolution, not just mediation. I what? So make it diffuse, which seems logical, and coordinating strategies and the impulse of the formation approved in this environment. And who are the targets? So to contribute to social cohesion, to contribute to the promotion of the culture of pau and the improvement of coexistence, to promote the agreed resolution of conflicts with constructive solutions, avoiding destructive confrontation, and for my part, to all those objectives that are detailed to the motion, to reduce the litigation and the high volume of judicial proceedings that today saturates our judges and remains its reflection to the memories that we know annually to the Commission of Justice. All these actions are fan or must be made of the hand and the complicity of institutions and collections involved, such as now the local administration and professional colleges, such as now the advocacy, today participants and promoters of the implementation of the mediation and that had not always been enthusiastic, for the perception of people concealed from a certain competence in its scope of action. Another of the measures proposed to the motion is something that seems logical to us, and it is that there is a coordination between the departments of the Government of the Generality that serves the objective of promoting these dynamics in all spheres. And under the title of example we could mention the Catalan Agency of Consumer Affairs, an area, that of consumption, in which the mediation has achieved results more than satisfactory at the time of adopting the peaceful resolution of conflicts to the citizenry, already with offices close to the department, already with local offices or with local ones. Finally, the motion places and urges the Government to promote a draft law on mediation which, because of the absolut transactions, is established in a maximum of twelve months – which seems more than reasonable – and which must be used to invest in mediation and the rest of the mechanisms of peaceful resolution of conflicts of a coverage that makes it more effective and credible in time to generate confidence in citizens and agents who will enjoy it. In short, this motion and its object – the peaceful resolution of conflicts – becomes the parliamentary translation of the so-called "sweet" – if "colloquialism" is allowed to "talk to people." So we defended it and promoted Republican Left in Catalonia in all areas, also in the resolution of the conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia. And we already know – and in fact, we have just been told by the heretics of the franchise – that they did not participate, but we invite all the parliamentary groups that promote and endorse this motion – some with more enthusiasm than others – that, beyond the words – with facts – it is going to bring about a dialogue and agreement of all the situations that affect the citizens of our country, both in the private and in the public sphere. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.132.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, again hold the word the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, the lady Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.133.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, thank those who will give support to the youth. From Citizens and from such a stick, such a rod was nothing more than waiting for me, the truth: they are not to mediate, they are more to punish and impose, although, possibly, we can count on the vote in favor of some of them at the point of the young man, because it's all make-up, in the end. We create a law of our own so that we have the skills, and we hope to have them all so that we can realize the independence of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse. The joker laughs.]] I love it. [[Give me the applause.]] We don't accept that at point 4 because we have exclusive skills in mediation and we want them to be respected, and we have the right to demand that they respect these skills. The MP of the PSC makes reference to the fact that the courts are not where the conflicts end. And no, you're right, they're not where the conflicts end. There are other ways to resolve's, as dialoging and mediating. There are groups that are to mediate and find consensus, yes, but whatever they want. A mediation counts with a neutral person and with parts that expose their problems without limitations, seeking a definite agreement. When one side denies the dialog to the other about issues affecting it, it is neither dialog nor mediated. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.134.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into health and primary care]] [[302-00082/13]] The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be this late, once the next item on the order of the day, the twenty-and-four point on the order of the day, which is the next question to the government about health and primary care, which was presented by the People's Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, and to expose it to Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.135.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon. As we said before on vacation, talk about health and primary care and abstaining from the management of the pandemic is impossible. It looks at the medium term to address the necessary transformations of the public health system, starting from the learnings of these two years, but also from the expected learnings, fruits of living in a health system built from the public-private concertation, which facilitated the negotiation with the right to salvation, and which, above all, did not? , has experienced the later years patenting the consequences of retailing, the result of the crisis or the austerity of two years ago. The lack of preparation and the poor functioning of public salvation to the Principality during the covid-19 makes a new law of public salvation indispensable. We are not going to continue to tear apart a 2009 law that we understand has not given an answer to the situation. Therefore, law and its implementation are urgent. It is for this reason that in this case it is essential that, in a six-month period, the process for a new law of public salvation be initiated. But the harsh situation, the decisions taken and the impacts they have generated, also involve, or also require an analysis of what has been done well and what has been done badly, as well as the impacts it has had on public health and inequalities in health. And it's not just because we all agree that when we talk about this, we don't talk about absenteeism, we talk about many other things. So analyzing what has been done well and what has been done badly in the management of the covid is indispensable. So what we've been saying for months: providing rights in place of restricting rights. Because yesterday they announced that the covid passport will no longer be compulsory. The question is, who was its impact? Beyond contagion-related issues – which we could also discuss around this, especially after weeks – can we agree that the segregation that has also had an impact on people's salvation, or not? Or what are the impacts on childhood with health measures taken at school, which are causing more chaos and confusion in teachers and families? Vicud-rights violations these two years with the argument to stop the pandemic require assessment and analysis, and, if necessary, clearance of responsibilities. Why, in some of these measures, even the entire scientific assessor committee has recognized that they are not sanitary measures, why, if no other curfew, why was it? The councillor said that it was not necessary for a health issue, but, in turn, the government decided to apply the curfew; in fact, I feel the only autonomous community left behind in the last few months. This also has an impact on the salvation of the people. Therefore, we need to look at what has been done well, what has been done badly, to avoid future situations such as we have experienced these two years. The pandemic of the covid has captivated the ways to work in primary care – this is another major issue pending – and especially during the peaks of infection has been the first level of care, which has experienced more complicated situations. And it's that primary care is an environment that years ago saw a critical situation because of the detail and lack of staff, and the health crisis has only made this situation worse. That is why we are putting forward proposals for the minimum and the maximum, proposals that were urgent two years ago, and that after these two years have become even more indispensable. During the pandemic, there was an insufficient reversal in primary and community care, and insufficient in comparison to the reversal at other care levels. It is true that it has contracted more staff, nurses and, with much less proportion, nurses and midwives, but without a deeper reform it will be difficult for primary care to be attractive to this staff, as it also happens many times with public hospital care. But it is not just a reform of primary care, but it is a profound reform of the health system, because the phrases that everyone has said about primary care and community care as the front door of the system cease to be slogans or slogans and become a reality, and also because the health and public health system is really focused on prioritizing preventive and community health. We carry years of pieces, and that's why we put on the table the need to push a social debate that takes away all this transformation process. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.136.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.137.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... The motion presented by the UPC, with which my group presented only two_months ago, as the debate that just last week we held at the Health Committee around the presentation of the health plan..., they want to go down to a concrete reality. Gathering discomfort, gathering needs, but above all, I believe that what is also expressed is this conviction of a need for a strong public salvation system, of strong public services. That's what the pandemic showed us, too, isn't it? And then we add to it all those adjectives that we have – ‘universal, ‘quality and tax-paid' – but above all, to highlight this strength. Two years of pandemic – Mrs Reguant also said – about a system and professionals who can no longer do so. A system that did not recover from the detail, and which, beyond that, had not made the necessary transformation to deal with social, economic and demographic changes, some of which were derived from the economic crisis of 2008, but other derivatives of the own democratic change that had occurred. That's why it's hard, at some point – I used to give it to the counselor, right? – to make such a strategic debate on the health plan, because I understood that more immediate measures would be needed, but also, as Mrs Reguant said now, to the end. Throughout the pandemic the primary care was the containment wall. The professionals went to the first interview, helped in the hospitals. But if we look at the public picture, it's been this time where the difficulties have come to primary attention. Until his col·lapse was very obvious, until now, we always looked at the response of the hospital system, but not the response of the primary system. You said it and we say it all the time and we share it: we have the widespread demand for twenty-five percent of health care, but above all we believe that primary care, because there are no empty phrases, that we can empower it and start making it attractive from our own medical and nursing studies, prestige it. Tell the young man, to whom we will already advance that we will give support, that enough places of MIR and EIR will be created. But if things go the same way, we'll find that they're finished with the MIR and, like they're already cremated, then they're not like primary care meths, they're trying to find some other professional way out, because we're already creaming them while their training period lasts. He said a few days ago a faculty in an article in El País, which said: "Professionals have burn-out not because they can't do their job; because they don't have time to take care of patients and because non-care tasks have collapsing with us, and burn-out starts from the faculty. It has so little prestige, as we have said many times, primary care, which, in university education, does not even have the recognition it should have. Empowering means providing sufficient resources to improve diagnostic skills and also to meet their professional criteria. There is a debate – and these days I was also talking to some other spokesman – about which clinical criteria should prevail. I think all clinical criteria must prevail. And, in any case, what there may be is a mismanagement of the agendas. And they must also be able to manage the agendas and be able to feel that when they come, they come, with their own professional criteria, and, therefore, that there is no going back and forth. As I said, "empowering them means giving them more management tools, more skills, but it also means re-opening everything that's locked up, returning to the city the lost servants and empowering, as we always do, the patients. The young lady has three sides – I think that if I divide her into three sides, that's... – very clear. For a gang, public greeting; what are we after in the pandemic? It is true, the law of 2009 may have some shortcomings, but above all – and here is the thought that we have presented, which I thank for its incorporation – what we have found to have many shortcomings is the law of the Public Health Agency, because its deployment has not been carried out. We approved it in 2009. At that time we were not ambitious enough – and I say this because we all voted for it – and maybe..., I think..., and I would give much more importance to changing the law of the Public Health Agency and, if necessary, also to addressing the law of public health. Professionals – as we have already said and shared – and health care system – we have already said – prioritizing primary care too – we have already said – but above all we also think about improving many management tools. I think they're in this, enough; at least the counselor has explained it to us. But really, we are either addressing the ability and the relationship between primary and hospital, between the ability to respond and that is not meant to tell the patient: "Look, I already have the downside, but somehow there's a follow-up, or we'll hardly get over what the counselor also says, that we're grubbing up, somehow, the files of the private insurance. And that's what we want to avoid. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.138.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.139.0	Thank you, Madam President. "When many remedies are suggested for one evil, it means that it cannot be cured," said Antón Pávlovich. That is exactly what you have been doing throughout the whole health legislature: many treatments for a single pathology, which is nothing other than you and your government partners. And it is that the main drawbacks for the resolution of the health drama in Catalonia are only its sectarian and ideological policies, which lead to the squandering of millions of euros of Catalans who are not investing in their health. Today they present a motion full of doctrine and inconsistencies typical of sectarianism and the more absolute ignorance of the functioning of public health. You see, the current public health law dates back to 2009, with a final amendment to 2020. And we are sure that it needs a structural review, but we are also sure that it must be carried out at national level. And this has been demonstrated by the inequalities that have occurred between the Spanish on the occasion of the pandemic in coarctation of fundamental freedoms, especially in Catalonia, and as we have seen over the past two years, with harmful results in terms of health, and therefore in terms of economy. On the other hand, you talk about creating MIR squares. We agree, we need to increase the number of MIR places, but they may also be aware that this task is the responsibility of the central government, and its objective is once again an attempt to usurp its legitimate authority. What they sure know is the difficulty Catalonia has in retaining talent, especially medical, due to the unfortunate treatment they receive, which is the worst in all of Spain. Hence our amendment to point 4, in an attempt to eliminate linguistic supremacy and to promote the resolution of opposition. I will confess that you have surprised me in points 6, 7 and 8, each more ridiculous than the previous one, and that you denote a complete ignorance of our healing. You see, they've been talking about primary care for months, and apparently they overlook two crucial points. The first: more than eight hundred head doctors – eight hundred_ thirteen exactly, according to a response from the Department of Health – in our health system lack MIR specialty, and therefore regulated training. This is one_of_each_six leading doctors in Catalonia. The second is that primary care as structured is a complete failure at the health and management levels. These two facts create a clear problem which is called a hospital collapse, both in emergencies and in external consultations, in hospitalization and in complementary tests, an added difficulty for healthcare professionals at the hospital level as a result of the shortcomings of the system and which they must deal with and end up solving based on the criterion that their specialist training gives them. What does this mean? That one specialist cannot and should not manage another's agenda, which leads us to the inoperability and lack of rigour of his proposals. We will vote in favour of an assessment of the health measures taken during the pandemic and of the elaboration of a shock plan to solve the tear of the waiting lists – we remember that we are the autonomous community with the longest waiting list in Spain, with more than 114,000 people waiting – provided that it is not a shock plan intoxicated with the fallacious and hypocritical communist proposals of caviar and red carpet to which we are accustomed. Once again, you have concluded the Plenary with a proposal that is largely outside the limits of logic and common sense. And what they make clear is the danger posed by their separatist and anti-system policies, which overthrow in all order that facilitates the proper functioning of our health system. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.140.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Fàbrega has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.141.0	Thank you, President. Always thank you, President, but this week more than ever, thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Councillor, Members, Members... From Juntas to Catalunya, we share the need for the situation of primary care, as well as the importance of improving the working conditions of professionals and the attention given to the citizen. I want to begin by thanking the good will and predisposition of the CUP Group, and especially the Regunant Member, to try to reach agreement from such long positions that we have in relation to the health model. And, about primary care – which we, unlike others who have spoken before, believe it, esteem it and believe it to be the basis of the system –, let's very quickly contextualize only a given about the current situation. In Catalonia, in the last two years more than two million people from the covid-19 have become infected. Of these 2_million people, 900,000 – that is to say, forty-five_per_cent –..., has been during the last month. Any health system would be tense, in this situation, and especially if it suffers from a chronic underfunding that we are all aware of. So from here I also want to recognize the immense work of the primary care professionals. Let's go to the police station. We have submitted papers at all points to try to donate solutions to the challenges we have based on the CUP proposal. These have been accepted, in transactions, three, and we believe that they improve the original text and the feasible fan, and the professionals and users will see the results. Let's go to the ground, by the dots. About the public salutation bill. This law – it has already been explained, has been explained by MP Escarp – of 2009, a law, precisely, of the tripartite, has been approved with the maximum consent; in fact, it has been approved for anonymity of this chamber. We think it's a good law. We think it's a law that professionals feel comfortable with. What do I need to update... some modification, some theme? You're obvious. That the pandemic has proven any faults? You're obvious. How can we adapt it to the new technologies? You're obvious. But I don't make a substantial change; I don't make a new law for us, when the ninety percent of this law is still in force. Perhaps it is necessary to adapt the law of the Public Salvation Agency – perhaps yes – and that is why we proposed this partial modification. On the evaluation of the measures promoted. That's what's already been done; that's already done, the Health Department. And, depending on this assessment, it's when you make the different decisions. Not just the Health Department, huh? Remember, the Health Department is the one who guides, and the government is the one who decides what to do. In fact, we have a scientific committee to advise Cove-19 to make this assessment. In relation to the professionals, we agree that the seats of MIR, EIR are to be increased; in fact, also of psychology and pharmacy, but this does not only depend, as we all know, on the Government of Catalonia. However, in the next four years these places have increased in a _per_cent split: from 1,572 to 1,866. And we also agree that we need to work to improve the knowledge, among medical students, of the specialty of family and community medicine, because who knows it values it, the esteem and then it can be devoted from a professional point of view. The transaction accepted went in this direction. Certainly, all the fate and uncertainty of all the seekers of this evidence, which is precisely what this dissipation is; exit and uncertainty of all of them. On pending objections, the department is already working on it, but we have to do it between the terms and the set timetable, as is already done. On the floor of the waiting lists. The text, as it is written, we must recognize that it is a toast to the sun, because to do this activity we need professional and there is no such thing. It's that everyone who's already been hired or will be contracted the year coming with the 2022 assumption. From 2018 to 2022 the contract for primary care has increased more than one twenty-i-four_per_cent, incorporating more than 5,400 professionals, 427 covid managers, 306 school referents, 150 psychologists, and by 2022 there are 226 psychologists plus and 148 dietitians-nutritionists. More than 550_million euros have been invested in primary school. In fact, we have hired more than 600 nurses, nursing professionals, from different autonomous communities in Spain where they have been welcomed. And, finally, you ask that from primary care you are managing the waiting lists of hospital specialists and that you are not returning any referrals. They ask that the clinical criteria disappear in the management of the coordination. Those who have to decide this are the clinical professionals. That's why there are clinical routes, that's why there are care protocols. To do this is to cancel medical professionalism, it is to cancel the clinical criteria. The hospital specialist's schedule isn't just the primary branch, there are many other things. And let me finish very quickly with a point that we have found to be missing from the youth, because to do all this, and immigrating from a pandemic, we need resources. And we found these demands missing in the negotiation of the assumptions and we found that we lacked the point where the Spanish state is asked for the covid funds, without which it is impossible to face a pandemic, where today we have more than two million people who have already become infected. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.142.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, in this first round of defence of the papers presented, has the word Mr Juli Fernàndez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.143.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs... Allow it to begin, on the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, with a record for all the people who suffered Nazism and fascism, all remembering Neus Català, when he said that the only death that worried him was the death of the memory. And the memory's still alive because it's never going anywhere again. And, above all, a special record for people marked with a blue triangle as fit in these camps. On the motion presented for the UPC and around the three great blocs – public health policies, health systems and working people – we could say that we are basically in agreement with the diagnosis and much of the proposals put forward. It's more, as Fábrega said, we've been able to deal and agree, we think by improving the text, in four of the points. And in others we think we have the ability to see the problem, but not the same coincidence at the time of... as we come up with it, even though we are convinced and convinced that we can be able to find ourselves there. In the sphere of the law of public salvation, it is one of these... We believe that the structure of the law responds to a great consensus and that we have the ability to hold an instrument that, with modifications, of course, after what we have experienced, can be very useful. And that above all we need to focus on the Public Health Agency, on its deployment, and the Councillor also said so in his presentation to the Member of Parliament at the Health Commission. And, obviously, we believe that assessing the impact of the measures taken, especially from the point of view of how they affect people's lives, don't we? , as it affects inequalities, because everyone knows that the eighty percent of what you have to see with our state of salvation are the social determinants... so we think it's interesting to be able to do so. From the point of view of the most effective, and without much more in the reiteration that in order to have more MIRs and more EIRs we have to have the ability that the State is there – of course that here the Socialist Group and the group of the commons can be very useful to us in the hour of increasing this capacity –, and already setting a horizon of two years – it is because it is what we try to form a methge, and in these two years we will have a high retirement of our health professionals–.... therefore, I believe that it is a strategic horizon and it is a horizon in which we are able to plan the need for quotas to cope with this reality that we are already beginning to find ourselves in the infirmary and the professional of medicine. And, finally, in the area of primary care, that I think we all believe and are convinced that it must be the foundational pillar, we do not share that the best solution is this management of agendas directly from the primary care professionals. We do share that there is a deepening in this coordination and in this shared work that favors the generation of consensus so that there are fewer rejects and so that the derivatives are as fast as possible. And, in the field of participation by professionals and workers, I'm sure that, beyond the reactivation of the professional forum, which is a tool that we think is interesting, we can find these shared workspaces. Reiterating the commitment of the Republicans and the Republicans in a strong system of salvation and in the presuppostarial commitments that this Government has made to it. Many thanks, president; thanks, deputies and deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.144.0	Next, and to fix his position, has the first word, Mr David Cid, of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.145.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank you for this proposal from the CUP Group, which I think, moreover, from our band is very timely, isn't it? And the more you see the appearance that the counselor made, I think that, if I didn't go wrong, you said last week, that I made the presentation of the greeting plan 2021-2025. And I quote his words, or at least a press headline – I think it's from El Punt, if I wasn't wrong – saying: "Argimon admits that the public system loses quality and warns of the increase of the mutuals. I think we have to be all aware..., I think that the situation of public health in Catalonia is in a situation of impaise – I would say that in a critical situation – which, moreover, is especially difficult in primary care. And he pointed out with figures that in four years the health care providers in Catalonia have gone from twenty-five to thirty-two per cent, and as this assumes a fundamental risk to the public health system. We could point out other data, too, which would express the abandonment of the primary school or, as a minimum, how the priority of the system has shifted from primary school to other areas of the health care system. For example, in the last 20 years, the number of meths and meths running the family meths speciality at the MIR has decreased by 50_per_cent; it is to say, now we are around, practically, only from the twenty-five or twenty-seven_per_cent of meths that, once the MIR is over, triage the primarist speciality. Therefore, it is obvious that we are in a limited situation. And we share that more resources are being used, and I can agree that the Catalan health system needs more resources, but we also need to ask ourselves what to do. Because, I agree, we can claim a new coven, and we've already told them that we'll accompany them, but listen, we don't cheat, either. Because if we don't have the twenty-five percent of the primary budget, it's not because I don't get to these 1,400_million euros, it's because counseling hasn't considered it a priority for a long time. Because the twenty-and-five-per-cent commitment and where resources are allocated..., that depends on the advice, and it's our responsibility. Therefore, if they do not believe primary care, if they want to pursue money in health and hospital checks, it is their option, but they do not make us responsible for the rest of what is their political decision. We could say the same thing about public salvation. But if we don't have four percent, that's not the responsibility of the Government of the State, it's the responsibility of the Catalan Government, which decides, on the assumption that we remember – we've never had a presumption of salvation with as much money as we have this year – as management according to their skills. And I insist on that, and I think we all need to be aware. I believe that we are, in 2022, on the verge of a wave of salvation. I think we can all see that no, but I think we're here because the situation of exhaustion, fatigue, the working conditions that workers have today, so... they're in a limited situation, and the warnings. Of course, a spot we'll go with. Why, in the end, too, if people aren't mobilizing, surely, right? ... as my avia says, if you don't cry not moms; so it's definitely where we're going to be, and so it's definitely where it's going to be, isn't it? And I think it's very important that we all place primary care in the color of the system. And I think there's been a lot of concerns about the young man, but I think... the phone book for us is point 5, which is this primary care shock plan. And, I insist, I think we can go through a lot of statements, I think we can go through a lot of motions, too, well, but either we're all able to put this as a priority or we're in a limited situation of the public health system at the Catalan level. And, therefore, I think that this is where we should... I think that this is where the council should focus. It's obvious that we're in the on-the-spot earthquake. I hope... I don't know, I think the counselor hasn't said the magic word yet, which is that we've already passed the peak of this on-the-spot earthquake. But I think that, if we get over this on-the-spot, and I'm sure we will, this should be the highest priority in the consulting department. I, therefore, hope that the next few weeks we can talk. I, especially, don't I? Take the words of your own counselor. I think if in the end the General Health Advisor says that the system is losing quality and that he is worried that in four years he has increased the 20-and-five-to-the-twenty-two-per-cent mutuals, there is not enough to do the diagnosis, we should know who the treatment is. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.146.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.147.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... well, from little to little, it fills the spade. Here we have already had an important debate about the witches, and today we have another one, therefore, about the Catalan sanitation. I... I'll be forgiven, but I'm worried about the feeling of tenacity lost in time, of tenacity toasts to the sun, and of tenacity in good words that I don't seem to wander around. Clearly, this young man... of course, he's one of those people you're thinking about, so why do you have to vote for them and why don't you do it? The CUP presented an original text, let's say, that, gosh..., they talked..., they didn't directly demandate the concerted sanitation, make a defense, so..., of public salvation, but, let's say, with a certain prudence, I suppose they seek consensus. The young lady says things that are fine, but that everyone knows they didn't happen. You're quite naive in some respects. The Socialist Party, with its own considerations, has given it a ban of professionalism, and the groups of the Government, as always, a ban of prudence – they understand by prudence not a hard one. Of course, you say..., to see, all that we are talking about here, and I agree enough with the general appreciation that Mr. Cid has made... Here it was said: "We are not ambitious enough...; neither planners, nor transparent enough, nor can we reverse the detail, which, little by little, inexorably, has been carrying our system of salvation. I mean, ladies, let's not go anywhere. Counselor and Dr. Argimon warned, warned with a small mouth, but I have the impression that, despite its undeniable value and even charisma in the government's conjunction, let's say, as much as they can keep the ship on course, do not reverse the course. There's been talk here, so... I found a mention missing from the tax department. I mean, I don't know, I guess there's someone who thinks that we're gonna fix this by docking the Bank of Spain, like the paper house, but it's clear... it's not really a joke. I mean, it's very sad that people here are justifiable by pulling the blame on the State, that the State is justifiable by pulling the blame on autonomy, and that until then... Lords of VOX, you, who have made an implacable criticism, that if I didn't have the day languished I could surely share, but of course... For example, the lack of covid funds is partly thanks to you. You in Congress were out for grapes the day the control, the control of the covid funds was voted out. And now the funds cove a government participated, precisely, for some friends of yours, Mr. Cid, will distribute them as out of the noses. And that, therefore, also has an impact on sanitation. So, summarizing, it seems to us, therefore, that... we will vote yes to a few points of this young man, because they are done because you can't vote no, but go, as if we're voting Elvis Presley is still alive. We will abstain in a few; those who, let us say, did not give them time to professionalize. But above all... To see, here, or to take seriously the sanitarium, we take seriously the drama to primary attention, or, for many statements that we are making here – "that well, that we are... – and for many strategic plans of salvation, the car will run relentlessly down the mountain. And, above all, it seems phonental to reverse the lack of transparency. That, Mr. Argimon, I've already mentioned it some time. While there is not much more transparency as to how migration is managed – a lot of migration – resources for sanitation or which are priorities – as, for example, who decides how many cows are understood, for example, and to whom – among other things, we won't get out – we won't get out. And you all know that we won't get out of it, and that everyone will end up having a mutual, if they can afford it, and if not, no. I really don't want this to happen. Now, I don't think I'm happy to make a destructive speech, but I do, sometimes I have such an intense feeling of waste of time when we once again debate in this chamber, in the plenary session or in the committee, "yes, yes, yes, we do and we don't go anywhere, and we're still the same. Do all of you really want to stay the same? And, mirin, for the time being, I'm leaving it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.148.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.149.0	Thank you, President. The last reflection that Mrs. Anna Grau moved... I had here some arguments that surprised me quite. I mean, I've been in the Parliament of Catalonia for six years and it was the first time that a CUP motion was going to be approved by half the points. That either means that the UPC has become capitalist and right-wing – something that could be perfectly possible, as the commons are already overcoming them and taking away the key to governance in Catalonia – or something is happening. But, after listening to Mrs. Anna Grau, there's one thing for me... I'm going to say it because the body asks for it. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, but you still have to think about it; I don't, huh? Because I wasn't... I was about to, but I'm not, mayor or these things that are you, right? Look, the law of transitoryity has provoked something that I have not seen in any regional autonomous parliament of the Länder, of the French department, on any side, and it is that there is an absolute subordination that prevents you from exercising the role of territorial representatives. It's a very curious thing. So, all we do in this Parliament... and it's true, when Mrs. Anna Grau said that this led her to the melancholy of thinking that here we do nothing, is that I haven't seen a... I was four years in the Congress of Deputies, and there, when something was approved, I was going to Mass; but here, not here, it's all comedy. And you're responsible. You return to your people and nothing happens, because everything is at the service of what your party leaders tell you. In this motion there are interesting things. And, in fact – before I was joking – we will vote half yes and half abstention. There's nothing going to be done. Nothing. And not because I say it; it is because you, who supposedly had the key, will go there and take them for the pit of the serene. That is the history of Catalonia today: that there is no possibility of carrying out proposals that could have political consensus of all for ideological prejudices. And that should be you first to value it. And so far I can read. I simply move that there is an important part of the motion that I find very interesting that we are going to vote in favour – there are eight points: four, in favour, and four, abstention, because they have a language that is not ours – but that this no longer serves anything. I mean, you're already at the service of this story, which is already a processist. This is no longer the independent..., it is pure processing – pure processing. And I hope you understand. I mean, I... with all the humility, huh? I'm on the other side, but maybe someday they understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.150.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.151.0	Well, very briefly. Thank you, Mr. Fernández, for illuminating us [[relays]] But back to primary care and the health care system... And it's true that most of the motions in this Parliament are a full-fledged piece of paper. It doesn't have to be just because we have been subject to...; you haven't voted many and approved many that are turned into dumb paper because the government in the background has just, in fact, respected little the decisions that this Parliament makes. It must be the responsibility of all 135 Members here in the chamber. But when we talk about primary care and they come out and say, "There is no professional skills, there is no professional skills. I'll say it's true, but we also have to bear in mind that there are a lot of professionals in primary care who are leaving and abandoning primary care. There are many primary care nurses who have gone to the hospital, because the conditions are better in the hospital. Therefore, it may also be hot to change the working conditions of the primary care professionals. And also what it would be good to address this reform of primary care, because one of the things that makes the professionals and professionals of primary care fold and can't do more is that they end up cremated so that they can't do their job well, because in the conditions they work in, they can't properly develop their job. From here you see that we put forward proposals to ensure that they can do their job. Why, in relation to referrals and suspension of medical visits, what is the medical criterion that prevails? Hospitaller's. Because, if we accept that since speciality we can suspend referrals, it's that what we're doing is that the hospital's first on primary care, a new situation where primary care workers find themselves. Here's where we plant some of these things. In the rest, thanks to here will give support to the young man. We have accepted the PSC, as MP Escarp said, and we have tried to trade in what we are able to reach agreements to defend public health. As far as we're concerned that it doesn't go in this direction, we can't trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-01-27-2203.152.0	Well, thank you very much. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impulse of mediation and alternative methods of conflict resolution (continuation)]] [[302-00081/13]] So, after the debate, I'm guessing that we're going to proceed with the vote on items 23 and 24 of the order of the day, which correspond to the motions we've filed this late. We shall vote, first of all, on point 23, the motion following the question to the Government on the impulse of mediation and alternative methods of conflict resolution. We'll start by voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 106 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 18 abstentions. We will now vote on point number three. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 115 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has received 75 votes in favour, 11 against and 49 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into health and primary care (cont'd)]] [[302-00082/13]] And now we vote on point 24, the motion following the question to the Government about health and primary care. We have to vote all the points separately. We start by voting in point number one. The vote begins. The first point received 56 votes in favour, 76 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 135 votes in favour. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 124 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 121 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 70 votes in favour, 1 against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 115 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has received 17 votes in favour, 76 against and 42 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 39 abstentions. So nothing more. I invite you to attend the act we will do here in the House of Homenatge to the victims of the Holocaust. And raise the session.
