ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.1.0	Very nice late. Let's start the Plea. And we do, regrettingly, from one side, the fact that the war in Ukraine continues to cause victims and pain, and it is not appropriate for the violence to happen. And, sadly, I'll also have to notify you of a new victim of general rape. According to the communication that we have rejected from the Department of Interior, yesterday a new feminicide was produced in Barcelona, another dead woman, the name of which we cannot make public because it is under the secrecy of summary. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I repeat, once again, Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age also for its record. In accordance with the dol protocol of the Parliament of Catalonia against the masclist rapes approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence to suspend the session of the plenary this late, before the facade of the Palau del Parlament. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also, according to the Ministry 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations of the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2022 there are already a total of 340 people dead or missing in the Mediterranean. [[Question to the Government on policies for the collection of refugees (withdrawal)]] [[300-00136/13]] That said, I would also like, before starting the order of the day, to say that the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left withdrew the question to the Government about the policies of gathering refugees – it was the one that corresponded to the point of the order of the day, as it was communicated to the group – and that the list of questions to be answered orally in full is included in the plenary file, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be substantiated tomorrow morning as the first point of the order of the day of this plenary session. A plenary session for which there were four Members who have delegated their vote. And also, before starting on the next item on the agenda, at the request of the Board of Spokesmen I would like to inform you that there has been an agreed statement to the Board of Spokesmen of the Parliament of Catalonia on the compromise with the European Youth Year. They know that the European Commission has set aside the European Youth Year for this year 2022. And, therefore, with broad consensus, the European Parliament and the Council agreed to instruct the European Commission to coordinate a whole set of actions and activities around community youth policy. The Catalonian Parliament supports this initiative and makes clear, as this statement says, the historical and cultural links that Catalonia shares with the rest of Europe and that make it part, and also with the founding values of the European project. The young guarantee of the future for the next generations is that young people's policies must take a prominent position in public policies and government plans of the country's institutions. An example of this is the Congress of the Youth of Catalonia this year 2022, an event designed to promote the co-creation of youth policies with all the texture of the city and young association. In this statement is listed the set of actions to which is compromised the Parliament of Catalonia. I will only mention one: the fact of pushing the monogratia debate on youth emancipation during the plenary session that will take place on May 10, 11 and 12, so as to be able to debate, precisely, the challenges and opportunities in the field of youth policies. [[Question to the Government on possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the President of the Russian Federation]] [[300-00139/13]] And now, we don't give the first of the points of the order of the day, which, as the dowry has been withdrawn, is the question to the government about the possible contacts between the Administration of the Generality and the President of the Russian Federation. The Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presented it, and it has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.2.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Alsina. The European Parliament is already investigating, at the request of the deputy citizen Maite Pagazaurtundúa, the links between secessionism and the Putin regime. And it is logical, since in Europe the intention of liberal and anti-democratic regimes to destabilise our area of rights and freedoms is of great concern. And that, after all, is what Putin's regime has always done, trying to weaken those who the tyrant considers his enemies, who are no more than Western democracies. It is no coincidence, because the Member States of the European Union are, above all, democratic states of law. This is all that a despot like Putin hates: the rule of law, the separation of powers, the control of powers, respect for political pluralism, freedom of the press, the rule of law, in short. Finally, all that you have despised in this very Parliament with the laws of disconnection. Well, tyrants always find allies within countries that seek to destabilise. They are irresponsible politicians, whose fanaticism even leads them to establish links with authoritarian regimes that are seeking to destroy our liberal democracies. And now there is no doubt that, with frivolity, Mr Puigdemont and also in his time Mr Torra, the former separatist presidents, consciously put one of the main countries of the European Union at risk of serious destabilisation. In addition, serving the interests of the authoritarian bloc of the world and the most formidable antagonist of European democracies, which is tyrant Putin. Because you... I'm sorry to tell you this, Mrs. Alsina, you are rather nationalists than democrats. You set your goals above democratic values, sometimes even the well-being of citizens, always above coexistence. And from time to time, some of you even assume that independence, then, can cost you dead, as has happened in some war that is set as an example, or you take pictures hugged to liberal terrorists. Of course, it is also worth having as your ally the enemy of European democracies that is now – today – slaughtering citizens of a country that precisely wanted to join the club of liberal democracies. And it is abject that you have joined the enemies of the European Union. Russia, in particular, has, in addition to you, maintained contact with other parties that they consider to destabilise European politics. And they have therefore joined with supporters of Brexit, they have even financed Le Pen with 11_million. That, by the way, some parties in this chamber..., Mr Abascal met with the party of Le Pen and with Orbán in Madrid ; a club of parties like his, like his, like Mr Puigdemont, who do not believe in the European Union and in the regime of freedoms we share. Thus, Russia has been the creator of contacts with the Austrian FPÖ, the League of Matteo Salvini, with Alternative for Germany, with Hungarian parties, with Brexit, which I have already said. And Russia and China and other authoritarian regimes have channeled more than 300_million_dollars into thirty-four countries to interfere in democratic processes. And while the European Parliament decides to investigate the links of secessionism with Putin with the aim of destabilising Europe, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, some try to drain the lump as they can. At the Congress of Deputies, my party has already proposed a committee of inquiry into these contacts. And here too we're going to try to clarify. Because it is essential that this issue be clarified and the Catalans know how far you were willing to go in your alliances to destabilize Spain and break its territorial unity. These interferences of countries seeking to destabilize their opponents in the geopolitical context and on the international scene and weaken them are not new. In Germany, then, in 1917, they decided to send Lenin on a train in the 1917 revolution to radicalize the Russian revolution. But, I note, Irish nationalists during World War I refused to enter into dealings with Germany to destabilise the United Kingdom. What happens is that you, in an absolutely different environment, in a Europe with twenty-seven countries that have managed to forge an alliance based on human rights and freedoms, you have chosen to align yourself with one of the main actors of the autocratic bloc: Russia, China, Venezuela, Iran. You choose to ally yourselves with the enemies of our democracy, our freedoms and our way of life. And I think that makes it necessary for us in this Parliament to talk about this issue, because Catalans have a right, Mrs Alsina, Mrs Alsina, to know the truth. The Catalans have the right to know the scope of the contacts of Mr Puigdemont and his head of office, Mr Alay, because of course the news we are hearing is very worrying. And I, as a Catalan, do not want a former president of my autonomous community to meet with members of the secret services of any country, and less of an authoritarian country like Putin's Russia. This does not escape you, and does not escape anyone who is extremely serious and who can even constitute a crime. This may seem very normal to you, but believe me, Mrs Alsina, it is not. Putin has been threatening our democracies for years, but that was no obstacle for Mr Puigdemont and Mr Alay to probe the Kremlin's willingness to help separatism achieve its goal of separating Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Look, Mrs Alsina, Mr Puigdemont, who is the architect and responsible for these contacts with the enemy of free Europe, Putin, said he wanted a ministry free from outside – you will remember – to continue to promote the destabilization of Spain abroad. To whom do you owe loyalty, Mrs Alsina, to your Government, to the government of President Aragonès, who demarcates from these contacts, as Mr Rufián did a few days ago, as Marta Rovira did today, or is it due to President Puigdemont, who is one of the saints of his party, of Junts per Catalunya? Do you obey the external action of the Generalitat to its tasks within its statutory powers, or do you endorse and participate in Mr Puigdemont's strategy? Do we have two paths in this same government of Republican Left and Junts per Catalunya? Republican Left disallows a line and you, as External Action Advisor, are following the line Mr. Puigdemont followed? I beg you to answer this. And please also answer me if you can explain why Mr Puigdemont avoided supporting European Union financial aid to Ukraine in the European Parliament. Mr Puigdemont even distinguished himself here from Mr Comín and Mrs Ponsatí. Why? Mr. Puigdemont is your party, isn't he? Well, you'll know how to explain it to me. He aligned himself on that with Bildu, with Podemos, with Le Pen. Why? Why did he do it? I think Mr. Puigdemont, the fugitive Puigdemont, is a dark character. If we believe in the dignity of the former Presidents of the Generalitat, I believe that you, if you believe them, must explain the actions of Mr Puigdemont, who has an open office in Catalonia and we pay it with money from all Catalans. In Republican Left they are demarcating themselves from these contacts that are more than accredited. I ask you, Mrs. Alsina, will you unmarry? Are you going to demarcate yourself? Is it going to be politically retracted today in Parliament from that path initiated by Mr Puigdemont, now that Putin's Russia has made clear its will to undermine the rights and freedoms of the countries of Europe? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.3.0	Then, in the turn of the answer, has the words of the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert, the lady Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congressman. MPs, MPs, I wanted to begin my intervention by listening to the files and fóbies of the MP who has now shared with us in his first intervention, and said, focusing my first message on a message of solidarity, of double solidarity. First of all, to the people of Ukraine, and especially to the Ukrainians who have made Catalonia their home land, which I hope and wish that they will find the scalp and the support they deserve with the support of the Catalan society and its institutions. I also wanted to mention, in order to begin this inquiry, the person who quotes in the title of the same, the president of the Russian Federation, because precisely these days each time becomes clearer and the consensus is greater than this person, Mr Putin, is committing war crimes. And that's the context we find ourselves in. In this context, it is always relevant to remember the phrase of President Roosevelt, who said, paraphrasing it, said : « Viuran en la infamia. A week like the current one, in which, therefore, the norm_per_cent of the city of Mariúpol has been destroyed, I think it is an important phrase to remember all of us and to say it in their parliament. Well, Mr. Putin's arrival has, first of all, shattered the future and aspirations of millions of Russians, and we're with them too. But it has provoked things that are unbelievable in the world of international relations, things that have happened in three weeks and that, if not, you have been unimaginable that it is produced in such a short time. First of all, Ukraine has gone to the European Union more than ever. He laid him open a debate about whether Ukraine will be a candidate to become a member. Obviously, this is a debate that will not materialize in the short term, but it is a very sensitive debate. It has also done so in the measure that it has been seen that Ukraine was struggling to defend European values. What's the second element that happened in these three weeks? Well, Russia has been marginalized, at the international level, more than ever before; at the economic level, at the cultural level, at the sport level, at all levels. Third element, the European Union has joined, unifying more than ever its common foreign defence and security policy to give this support to Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. Here, I would say that, in the same way that the European Union has done better with the covet that with the austerity that was produced after the economic crisis of 2008, it has also returned better, at the level of security and joint action in the case of this war, which it had not done before. Fourth element, it has revitalized what is the transatlantic relationship, after some years of certain tension. And, finally, the fifth element that I wanted to highlight is that it has rejoined and given a new proposal to the Atlantic alliance, reinforcing its defensive architecture and making countries suspected of being bellicose like Finland, but sharing 1,300_kilometres with Russia, there has been a debate about how they can form part or part of what benefits would have been. I highlight these elements, because they seem important to us for any debate we are discussing today. And Catalonia, like the European land – we have said it many times since this Faristol – is a country that supports the European Union and considers that these international alliances and developments that have taken place these three weeks, so they are positive. They are positive alliances of a war where Russia alone is responsible. The honourable Member, with his intervention, had a déjà-vu; a déjà-vu, because you have shown all your inventiveness about the later occurrence of the state's media bubble to discredit independence. The later movement of the state's keyposts, which uses the communication means of the anti-Cathalan media cave and also its arms to institutions, which are you, to put it in replenishment. I said I've already seen it, because this isn't the first question I've been asked. In fact, the question I was asked in the past was also about the same question, but they called it a European vocation of Catalans, a much more uncertain and factual title than they used on this occasion. In fact, this time I remember that they had to rectify the title, because the first title they had put down said, it was about contacts and, as they do not have proof, they had to say any contacts in the current title. In fact, they have wasted their only question they have, in the face of their own representation in this Parliament, again asking me a question about the same subject on which I had already been asked in the past Ple. Actually, I'd tell him, wouldn't I? , which, before this offensive and before this insistence, I would like to put a little in context that represents Catalan external action. Because, look, our map of delegations, the map of government delegations, is the best example of Catalonia's strategic interests in the world. Do you see that we have a government delegation in Russia? Hey, what's up? I also wanted to tell him, in this context, that we do have many delegations in other parts of the world, because, as we announced, there is a strategy that will lead us, this year 2022, to cover sixty-three countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and America. An External Action that is consolidated and solidified, a Diplomat that is relaunched under a strategy of public-private collaboration and that will enable us to fulfill our political objectives with a state mentality and the service of the whole country. To go and answer some of the questions I'm ugly. Look, I confirm that in the top-level meetings I've had in my travels no one asked me about these supposed contacts– no one. None of the countries I've visited, which have been enough since I took over the chair and have the honor of captivating Catalan external action – no one. And let's go over the documentary base on which you are based. The supposed Russian plot is based first on reports from the Civil Guard, which everyone knows how a fan and everyone actually does that they filter miraculously when the cases are under secret summary. It is also based on a report of European intelligence, which the same high representative of the European Union, Mr Josep Borrell, people suspected of being independenceist, answered, when asked a question by writing to the European Commission, which I will now read: "The European Union's Intelligence and Situation Centre is not the author of the intelligence report mentioned in the New York Times article and ignores who could have done it. So, as I said, you are here practicing an exercise that adds to the media cave, because you are your institutional arm, to do this exercise of misinformation that comes out of the spanners of the State and of which you are altarpieces. Well, it's not the first time they've made it, because the object of their party has always been to cross and divide the Catalan society, making comparisons and making parallels that from this chamber are not acceptable. He did it when he compared the Catalan school and forced himself to speak Catalan and he abused the children who spoke castella. You, Mr Carrizosa, have made completely indecent comparisons comparing the situation of Catalan schools with Ermua and terrorism. Your party, Citizens, has also compared independence with Nazism. You made a parallel between the October 1 referendum and the annexation of Austria by Hitler. Therefore, you have no credibility when you add to this Madrid media operation and make these statements. You – you – repeat, you are quoting a report that Mr. Borrell has admitted that it does not exist. And this is an important fact, a key to this intervention. Precisely for this reason it is also intolerable that institutional representatives of independence join this campaign, answer an intentional question from a journalist of extreme right sentenced to invent interviews and coercion. That's not acceptable either. [[Greetings.]] The communication media and the opportunists are mistaken, as we have seen today, therefore, trying to discredit President Puigdemont's figure with these statements. President Puigdemont, first as President of the Government of this country and then as MEP, is a referent in the defence of freedom and democracy. It has manifested itself for the liberation of Navalni, alongside the dissident leader of Belarus, has condemned the war and, if they review its activity, is consolidated as a fervent defender of the human rights of the world. That's what I was told when I traveled and had meetings for Europe and the rest of the countries. Well, Congressman, I don't know if Russia wanted to use Catalonia in the past to harm the European Union. What I can tell you is that the government is not interested in this type of operation, nor in the past, nor currently, nor in the future. We are not looking for any kind of relationship with anyone around the Kremlin, and the Department of Foreign Affairs, in fact, when this war was declared, formally broke relations with Russia's general county in Catalonia, because relations with Putin's rule cannot be normalized. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.5.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Alsina, look, the first thing I will tell you about your first considerations about NATO, even, that you have done..., I remind you: you are not a foreign minister; you carry the external action of the Generalitat, and your competences are economic and cultural, and to that you must refer you, and in that you must spend the money of Catalans. You haven't answered me, have you? , basically, to the things I asked you – you haven't answered me. And there's an old Latin proverb that's "shut up, having to talk," he gives. And you should have explained to us, then, if you retract, if you separate, if you disallow all those negotiations that have taken place since Mr Puigdemont and his office, Mr Alay, with the Putin regime. And, hey, you're talking about the media cave and the invention, and now I find out that the media cave includes the 3/24, where Mr.Alay said he didn't go there to talk about vodka or Russian caviar, that he went to talk about the independence and recognition of Catalonia's independence. And you're talking about'media bubble'. Mr Pujol's demise of Mr Pujol's avi to the persecution, a figure of the repression, by breaking contracts, of our dear President. And, hey, I'm also surprised that you put Mr. Rufián and Mrs. Marta Rovira in the media cave and in the disinformants. In fact, when you got involved with Mr. Rufián, I noticed, you were applauded by Junts per Catalunya, you were not applauded by the Republican Left, huh? [[the timer riu]] Mrs. Alsina. Another..., the Madrid News... Ah, no, it wasn't the Madrid News, it was the New York Times, it was the New York Times that talked about Puigdemont's contacts. Is the New York Times also a media cave? Well, look, it was nothing less than the Pulitzer Michel Schwit award journalist..., Schwirtz, who published... [[Rialles.]] It's not my fault there's such unpronounceable surnames. [[strong rialles]] That's right. For this gentleman – this gentleman – is the one who published those contacts in the New York Times, it is not a media cave. And I do not know whether the European Parliament is a media cave, which has decided to investigate this issue because of its seriousness! Is the European Parliament a media cave? For you do not disallow what a Catalan Member in the Catalan Parliament asks about a former President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, because we are all interested in it. The weird thing is, no one else asks. The strange thing is that they are not all like a boil of « yes, yes, let's see what has happened. I see it as very normal, actually. Look, I... you haven't answered me to an issue that I think is very important: why Puigdemont voted against the European Union financing Ukraine, giving money to Ukraine. You have now become very pro-Ukraine, pro-European Union. This..., hey, double language in politics is very common. With one hand I say one thing and teach one thing, with the other I do what is right for me. And that's why we complain about the Democrats in Catalonia, and those we believe in the rule of law. We complain that you are putting your secessionist objectives ahead of democracy itself, even at the cost of allying yourself with the cruelest opponents of our liberal democracies. And lastly. When you told me, then, that you were withdrawing here to the consular representatives and that you believe that there should be no dealings with an autocrat like Putin or with a gentleman, a character, as you have described it, like Putin, I would say to you: Mrs Alsina, that does not tell the president of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. That says to what has been President of the Generalitat, to Mr Puigdemont. It is to him that you should tell: not on our behalf, do not continue with these contacts. Report: what you've done, how much money you've spent, what they told you, what you did with it. All that you must tell President Putin. To the president of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, don't tell me, because I have never contacted Putin, nor won. Not even my game. On the contrary. My party is, in Europe and in the Congress of Deputies, who promotes, like us here, everything that is necessary to find out about those dark alliances that you have tried to engage with the autocrat Mr Putin. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.7.0	And again the word, in the turn of reply, Councilwoman Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.8.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, well, he had left me, at the beginning of my previous intervention..., to express my surprise, because this is the second question made to me by Citizens in the March of the Ple, and on two occasions I see that he did not defend the party's foreign spokesman. And, well, with the interchants so entertained, right? So I'm surprised your party doesn't give you any more play in this House, and so you have all my solidarity, huh? Mr. Matías Alonso. [[Widow's remorse.]] Allow me, allow me to make a..., well, a football reference, right? , taking into account the great results of this week [[remorse of the voice]] And taking into account... I don't know if you'll like it too much, for previous references made in this Parliament by Mr. Martin Blanco, but I would sum up that your questions, your interventions from this Faristol always are, as someone we know, the theater of the good, huh? ; theatre of the good of the first word until the last, when you see this Faristol. Let me tell you two things that directly answer what you told me. Number u: if you have so many questions for President Puigdemont, why doesn't it make it easier for you to appear in your parliamentary office? Why don't you make it easy for this to be a gift? [[Greetings.]] I could answer that directly. And I wouldn't answer anything different from what I'm saying, but I could speak directly to President Puigdemont. Also – also – wanted to make a consideration, right? , because who met, not once, but repeatedly – met in more formal and informal settings – and came out smiling in all photos with Mr. Putin, is the King of Spain. The past and the present, both of them. [[Greetings.]] The two of them have come together and, in fact, if I follow the tradition of their political formation now from this Faristol, I'll take two photos of him and I'll take a picture of him, huh? The king's father and the king's son, therefore, meeting and smiling with Mr. Putin. You may think that because the meetings between Putin and the Bourbons have been given and everyone has been sown, the Bourbons are for Putin, they're pro-Russian, they're for Kremlin? Or I'd say more, and maybe... well, I won't be able to answer it now, but I can answer it more immediately: after the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia, Spain allowed what was said "a Russian military flotilla returned to Ceuta against NATO criteria." This may have been given because the Bourbons, after these smiles and these photos together, made a call because that was it? These are the types of questions that should be answered by the Government of Spain and their formation. [[Greetings.]] Okay. I would not want to end without explaining to him what we have actually done from the Department of Foreign Affairs and from the Government of the Generality respect the conflict in Ukraine. And here I'll be very brief and sum up four blocks of actions we've done. From the department, first of all, from the perspective of more politics, I told him that we have suspected relations with the Russian coalition; that we have made a reception of homenage and recognition with all the European counties that we have in Barcelona to make this show of solidarity with the Government of Ukraine; we have gone to municipalities like Guissona, where the community is most important, and we have joined, for example, an Orthodox Mass, a priority for the work they did; at the level of management of the emergency, we have enabled the phone of emergencies, we have given response to all the needs of the consulate; the needs of the longer term... there was explained at the meeting that we had: we have made the call for cooperation, we have given response to all the needs of the consulate; the needs of the longer term... there was an explanation for the meeting that we have had: we have made the call for cooperation, we have made it possible to arrive at the end, at the end, at the end, at the end, at the end. Well, I can go a lot further and explain all the actions we've done in these four blocks, but I think I'd summarise them by saying that it's clear that the Department of Foreign Affairs is devoting all its efforts to the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainians that we have at our home. And it has also become clear that you are only helping to increase misinformation and waste our time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.9.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Economic and Fiscal Affairs and State-General Committee to give a compliment to the Supreme Court's judgment on the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008 in the field of infrastructure]] [[300-00138/13]] Let us therefore move on to the 14th item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the agreement of the Joint Economic and Fiscal Affairs and State-General Committee to give a compliment to the Supreme Court's ruling on the third additional provision of the Statute for 2008 in the field of infrastructure. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to move forward, and has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.10.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, I have said this and many economic studies corroborate it: Catalonia is one of the main areas of economic development in southern Europe, with an industrial sector, of services and tourism that are successful and powerful, and that could still be more. We believe that we could still be more and, in any case, reap policies that wander in this line. Our territory, Catalonia, is strategically situated in the Mediterranean arc, also in the confluence of various socio-economic and territorial vectors of global growth. But we are not the only territory in this area, within the European Union, in this situation. Catalonia also produces a large internal volume of people and goods with origin or to the Iberian Peninsula and beyond. It is true that we have certain geographic conditions that condition the infrastructure of Catalonia: the same border situation in our territory, above all an accidental orography, and the concentration of population and activities on the coast with the stalemate that, moreover, entails, right? In order to be able to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by globalisation, this geographical position to which I referred, also to have a human capital comparable to the most developed countries, the sectoral diversification of our product fabric and, at the same time, also a tendency of agglomeration of this same sectoral diversification that we have, the new geostrategic situation that, unfortunately, is configured with the war that has originated Russia..., if we are already in the heat, we believe that now, as at other times, in the context of infrastructures adapted to the new ones needed to engage more investments, to facilitate the growth of production and the occupation of the different economic sectors. Infrastructures help with this follow-up. Expressed in another way: on the other hand, the lack of efficient and adequate infrastructure will limit the country's growth potential and competitiveness. Among economists, but also among the group of social and economic agents of the country, there is a broad consensus regarding the positive impact that an investment in infrastructure has on a country's economic growth. More economic growth... that doesn't necessarily mean consuming more resources or raw materials. More and more, I repeat, more opportunities, too, of redistribution of the wealth generated in terms of social equity. Catalonia is the European region in population, but we still have a supply of transport infrastructure – and here I incorporate the data transport infrastructure, which is instrumental in the new economy – that we are almost at the bottom of the middle of the main European regions in terms of capital investment. We come out, Vice President, from a pandemic, with its economic and social consequences. We have been transiting and we will continue transiting with a climate crisis and emergence, and now we are full in a crisis provoked by a war, the consequences of which we are patenting and we will suffer them full in the immediate future; in the immediate and mid-term future, from our analysis. Economic tensions and assumptions, we see them and we see them. A debate which is not new about which are the most appropriate infrastructures will continue to be opened or, more clearly, will continue to be held in relation to the cost-benefits they represent and how these investments that are to be made will affect productivity. And, despite these tensions, we will have to arrive at a destination, from our point of view, between a 2,1 or 2,2_per_cent of the gross domestic product in a sustained way – not with a supposition or another, in a sustained way – at the combination of infrastructures to equate us to the surrounding countries. For our parliamentary group, Socialists and Forward Units, the investment policy in infrastructure will have to prioritize the solution to the main problems of congestion and connectivity affecting the daily mobility of people and goods. The challenge of the future is to solve effectively the current imbalances of the road and rail network, so many passengers of short distance, especially in metropolitan areas– and I say this in plural, because we do not only have the metropolitan area in Barcelona, but also other metropolitan areas– as goods. We need to improve the negative effects of slow investment and project development in recent years, on the part of the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, of both governments, right? And, in this sense, I would like to highlight – let me make a small incision – the reversal in rollers to mitigate congestion to the metropolitan accesses of Barcelona, in the conjunction of the railway structure and the Mediterranean Corridor, on behalf of the Government of Spain, to combat, among others, the growing concern for the quality of the air and its effects on the salvation of people. To indicate also that the needs of the future, from our perspective, for a sustainable economic growth will require greater attention to the management of demand than to the increase of the offer. Concepts linked to the level of service, the intensity of use and the perceived quality of users of the different types of transport as key decision factors for the application of available economic resources and the prioritisation of planned actions need to be progressively incorporated. For us, Vice-President, it is also a priority to reflect on the need for the expansion of the airport in Barcelona in this new context of international and economic relations; the expansion of the operation of the airport, but also of the ports of Catalonia. We need, as I said, new infrastructures, in a context of growing digitization, so as not to produce a new seal in which territorial depopulation is added and a Catalonia at two speeds. And back to the actual numbers. An agreement of the administrations for a decided bet for investments, to reverse the accumulated deficits in the last two years. Some studies place them around 3,000_million euros per State, but 2,300 euros per Government of Catalonia. And even more, we would like to know, Mr. Vice-President – this was also the motive on the one hand of the question – which is your opinion respecting the agreement of the Joint Commission of Economic and Fiscal Assumptions between the State and the Government of Catalonia, that is to say, these 750_million euros corresponding to the additional third of the year 2008, which, with the Supreme Court's judgment, gave the reason to the Government of Catalonia, as it could not otherwise be, from our point of view. Of this 759 million euros, 200 have already been handed over to them by 2021. And the question is obvious: what have they intended them for? What infrastructure? Because they went to the single box, but traceability is hard to follow, although you are always complaining about this issue, right? And, above all, the remaining 559 million, what do they think they're dedicating them to? What do they think they're financing with these resources? We would appreciate their clarity and transparency. Do you intend to assign them to you from your advice, as the third addition indicated or was intended for this? Or are they assigned by Counselor Giró to other government policies? Some proposals that you are competent and that require projects and resources. I'll read just a few, won't I? , which could be applied to these resources: to the Tarragona tram train, the variant of the Presses and Olot, the Ebre shaft, the central tram of line 9, the extension of line 1 to Badalona, the line 3 of Esplugues, the C-66 to the Gironine commas, the urbanization and the urban integration of the R2 to Montmeló, the improvement of the railway infrastructure of Ferrocarrils to improve the commercial speed and frequencies to the Anoia and the Bages, or the motorways that are still of peatge and that correspond to the title of the Generalitat, or the port of Comiols, or the extension of the optical fiber not only at the end of the people, but also the capitalary difficulties that could be overcome. The list could be longer, but in any case, let's wait for your answer to complement our intervention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.11.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.12.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Very late, deputies, deputies. Congressman Terrades, the truth is that when I learned that he was asking me this question, I asked exactly what it was, because, in fact, I was curious to see... because they saw the title, I didn't just see exactly what you wanted to ask me, didn't I? I see that it was specifically on which was the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment corresponding to the third additional provision for 2008 in the matter of infrastructure. That's what the inquiry says. Anyway, look, I like everything you've said about infrastructure, I couldn't agree more, could I? I think we should bring the country back here. I believe that a country without infrastructure is a country without opportunities; a country that is not connected by land, sea, air and cyberspace, so, finally, there will be few opportunities for progress in the 21st century. And beyond the speeches and, obviously, the reports and, obviously, the importance of a good infrastructure policy from the economic perspective, as you have explained – and that we will agree here, we will fully agree with your group and this consultancy – the question we need to ask ourselves, beyond all the petitions and wishes we can have in the matter of infrastructure, is what the mother sometimes says to me, which you say: "Well, and that's what pays for it, huh? Is that what I'm paying for? I thought you'd come here today to talk about how we'll pay for this, how we'll pay for it, and who are the needy people in Catalonia to settle down, so, day by day in infrastructure. And I think there are four instruments, that you haven't commented on one of them, but there are four, very important instruments, that would help us to mitigate, precisely, this infrastructure deficit that our country is suffering from, right? One of them, well, he knows all very well, huh? I believe that some Members often refer to this chamber: it is the famous and well-known fiscal deficit; a deficit that, once again, leaves us without many million euros in our budget to be able to make policies of infrastructure. We are talking about the fact that if the Generality's assumption is around EUR 38,000_million, and we analyze, according to data from the Ministry of Finance, the taxes that the Catalans pay, that all sums– IRPF, VAT, companies, specials, etc.– therefore add around EUR 53,000_million, well, it is that we just need to make a change, and, if we deduce from what has been transferred, eh? , the 26,000 that are transferred to the Generalitat, so it is obvious that 17,000 remain, a gap of 17,000_million euros every year that we don't know where they are going – they have to go to make infrastructures to other places, I imagine, don't they? And, therefore, we have here a first great fundament that you are absolutely responsible for, that govern the State. And, therefore, we could, in this sense, help to mitigate this fiscal deficit that would help to make this investment policy that you were commenting on now. It's calculated, huh? , that the fiscal deficit, in the later thirty years, from 92 to 2002, approximately, therefore, lies in the eight_per_cent annual, from the perspective that it represents about 16,000_million euros each year. So, here's a lot of money we could use. There's a second instrument, which is the investment assumption... the state makes every year, huh? and, in this case, the regionalized share in the autonomous communities. Here, systematically–systematically––, the Government of the State invests under Catalonia's GDP – which is over the divide, dinou_per_cent, depending on the later years, or on the middle of those later years –, and almost always – almost always – is under the percentage of the population. Therefore, a_second instrument I think it would be important that it also take into account. There's another one, which is that, man, like at least, at what they assume, they spend 'ho, huh? Because the liquidations that we are doing a year ago of the general assumption of the State in the matter of investments in Catalonia, therefore, of the last two years, have only executed the sixty-sis_per_cent, when the average throughout the State is of the seventy-five_per_cent. Therefore, we are more than two points under the medium of execution of the State's premise in the matter of investments in Catalonia. In fact, they only completed the cent_per_cent of the year 2012, and, you said, ruled the People's Party, that now I see that there is no deputy in the room – they are so few, already, that they do not even come. In any case, they have here, therefore, a lot of scope for recourse. I believe that here you can make efforts to help in all that infrastructure investment policy that you were talking about, that I totally agree with it and that we need to get it done, right? And, finally, the fourth instrument – which you have made reference to – and which is simply completing the law, which is the third additional provision. So, to complete with the Statue, huh? You always complain to us, don't you? , which we must return to the consent of the State. So the first one they could do I think is complete it. Completing it, because I remember that it was an agreement made by President Mas – forgive me, then he was not president, but Mr. Artur Mas – with Mr. Zapatero, when the State was agreed, with this additional arrangement agreed in the morning, it was made very clear that during the next seven years it would do and correct the infrastructure deficit with this additional arrangement that had been adapted, in this case, to Catalan GDP, and which is valued and valued at 4,500_million euros, of which they have not paid at present... And we're talking about the period 2007-2013, huh? , or so, it's fixed, it's given years. In two years – you've won, huh? , that agreement–, therefore, only did not have effect 950, and there remain 3,500, yet, to pay. It's true that now these 550 that you were commenting on, huh? We have granted how to make the payment, and therefore it has been prorated in several years, and that they are as a consequence that you do not pay – do not pay –, and at last you have to be told by the Supreme Court to do the favor of paying. It's also true that the rest are missing, the 3,000 are missing, we're also waiting for his will, right? You, who were the ones who approved this Statute that gave this textually, so you are committed to making it effective for the next few years. I think it's four instruments that would really help you do what you said, huh? And I am convinced that if this happens, the Generality, the Government of the Generality will also put it on its side, as we have done in the last few years in the matter of infrastructure investments, where it is true that we have not executed at one hundred per cent, but we are executing more than eighty per cent of the investment assumption, these last few years, and therefore we are sufficient above the level of execution that you are making. And about the more concrete question he asked me, it's obvious that these moneys that..., the two hundred that have already been paid, but that was an agreement and that was paid at the end of the year, so there was no material time to, obviously, dedicate them..., or decide what they were meant to be. But the compromise I have with the Councillor of Economy – as well as, more importantly, these are money for lack of infrastructure – is that all these resources, both the 200 of 2021 and the 550 pending to pay, and that I hope it is a vagina subscribing in the next few years, will be dedicated to financing investments in the field of mobility infrastructure, as it was dictated at the time and as it was dictated by the State, so I add to what they agreed at that time to the Socialist Party and Convergence and Union with this additional third provision. And, in any case, then, in reply, I will comment on other questions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.13.0	Thank you. Now, at the turn of the line, the word is M. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.14.0	Sometimes, listening to his interventions, I see at the top that saying of advice that I don't have, because it's true that – and it's the first I've recognized him in my interview – I need to increase, not the presupposition effort, that I think it's obvious that the government of Pedro Sánchez on the two assumptions approved this, but we need to improve in the bidding and enforcement effort of the presupposition. And, therefore, this is a debt that the Government of Spain has, but you too. You pointed me to the theory that the distinguished Member of Parliament, Mr Canadell, sometimes serves, right? , that every Ple that passes, the xifra increases. You don't execute the eighty percent of your investment assumption. Tomorrow, you'll get better notes from the investments, because they're pretty much lower or a little lower than you say. And I have taken several studies from some economic and social entities in our country to reaffirm this position. You also have an important margin of improvement. And listen, the compromise... not all of Spain's governments are equal in their priorities. You make the simplification that all of Spain's governments are natural and are all against Catalonia. And that's not it. Miri, I took the levels of investment in infrastructures of the government of Rodriguez Zapatero, huh? , and then compare it to what came from the Spanish right, and when it came back to governing social democracy in Spain, how the levels of investment in infrastructure in the country have risen again. Not all the governments of Spain are the same as not all the governments of Catalonia are the same. There's no progressives, there's no drains, there's no barricades, huh? Why sometimes you don't just know if they're progressives, if they're conservatives, sure nationalists, huh? Some more than others, but not all governments are the same. And why are investments, from our perspective, important – also from the Government of Spain, as demonstrated in its assumptions – and strategic? Because we consider that Catalonia must continue to be the tractor of growth and wealth creation at the conjunct of the Spanish State, and investing in infrastructure is an increase in opportunities, quality of life for citizens and citizens, Catalans and Catalans. You are aware of the proposals that contain the Spanish assumptions in this matter in the last assumptions that were approved in the Chamber of Deputies. We are also aware of the proposals that the Government of Catalonia has made and that it approved this chamber also in the past year, right? We voted against it because we thought they were short, but we know each other. Now, it's still unclear, Vice President, what you're thinking of doing with these resources from the year 2008. Then they'll come, won't they? the others still missing to run the period this seven-year period of the third additional. Seven hundred and fifty-nine million euros is not a small amount, and we want to know what they propose to do with these resources. I already announce it, because it will not be secret because you will know tomorrow or tomorrow, that the motion for a resolution or the motion that we will present will be very simple. You already know me, I don't do lençols, there... I think the interrogations have to be concrete. And we will make you a proposal: that within three months we present ourselves in your Parliament and explain to you how you intend to allocate these resources. And we propose that they remain in the sense of the third addition. And, therefore, we are satisfied with the answer that you explain to us. Because we don't think it would be a waste of spending these resources. And they know how the negotiation went to the former Government of the Generality, which you also were part of... it's true, you didn't have the Economics and History Council, did you? But knowing how the debate went, I wouldn't be surprised if the country's economic advisor wanted to take advantage of these resources, not to improve the provision of large-scale infrastructure needed by Catalonia, but for other issues. If it's for other questions, let's know that we don't agree and fight it politically. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.15.0	The deputy president of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.16.0	Well, thank you very much. Member, it seems to me that I have already answered the question and therefore this money will be allocated to mobility infrastructure. But let me remind you that the xifra isn't smaller, huh? Look, now imagine you, or imagine you, that this was the arrangement... [[the counselor shows a full to the chamber]] This full was the third additional provision, the import. [[The counselor divides the full into two unequal fragments.]] This [[the counselor shows the small fragment to the chamber]] That's what you paid for and that's what you paid for. [[the counselor shows the large fragment]] That's what it takes to pay. So, we're talking about 3,000 million that would go very well by power, so, [[applause]] To deploy many of the infrastructures to which... listen, it's not what I'm saying, it's what the Statue says, huh? , the Statute of Catalonia, to which you call, therefore, every two by three, and which, obviously, was an agreement that made at that time Convergence and Union and the Socialist Party. Is that 'hey' fixed? Fixed 'no difference. That's what they've paid and that's what it takes to pay and to recognize, according to what the State says. When these money comes in, I'm sure we can do a good infrastructure policy and I'm sure you'll help us. And look, many of you are members of the Catalonian Parliament representing the territory, and so many of these infrastructure structures that we could do..., and we could comment on some of them, right? I am saying this because I see now that Mr.Savior Vergés, the Vergés deputy, has left, but I do not know if there has also been a Member of the Ten, who is sure that he would be very happy that the variety of Olot and the Press has been able to do. Or surely also the deputy of the PSC Cristòfol Gimeno, who does not know if he is in the room, of the PSC, therefore, will be happy that we can make the variation, in this case, of Castellgali, valued at 40_million euros. Or, for example, that we can make the accesses and the pacification of the National II Maresme, which is valued at 300_million euros and which I am sure Congresswoman Alicia Romero will be happy because she could use it to access Barcelona. Or, for example, the deputies who are, in this case, the Pallars, huh? , Sylvia Romero, Mr Ramon Tremosa, with the aim of Comiols, valued at 160_million euros. Or the deputy Alba Camps, of Bergedà, with the two most or Berga-Bagà, which is valued in this case, therefore, at 170_million euros. Or the train tram to Tarragona, that the deputy Rubén Viñuales..., which will surely be a good investment for all the citizens, in this sense, from the perspective of what the train means for that area, valued at 150_million euros. How many investments we haven't been able to make for many years and what if this additional third arrangement has already been paid, huh? If this had already been paid, then we would have been willing to do it, like many other investments that Catalonia and its citizens deserve and that all of you, like Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, representing, in this case, the territory, surely must regret that we have not yet done so. And that I didn't do no more than this government, but all the governments we've been having long ago. From the tripartite government, of which you were a part, the Socialist Party deputies, or the Republican Left or the municipal deputies – at that time Initiative for Catalonia Verds –, or Convergence and Union or Joints for Catalonia. So it's true, the infrastructure policy... at the end of the day, there's got to be a presupposition. As I used to say, who pays for it? How's it paid? They are obviously infrastructures of many million euros. And, therefore, we cannot afford the luxury as the country, no longer only, obviously, to suffer a galloping fiscal deficit that would allow us to advance and pose this country, say, at first division in the matter of infrastructures... Listen, that is 3,500_million euros, but it is the fiscal deficit that sets five postcards like this, every year, in order to be able to invest in all these infrastructures that help and help to have a country with much more progress, a country with more opportunities. And, as you said very well, I am convinced that in the area of infrastructure..., and I am sure that when they do and prepare this young man next, so we will agree on how to make this reality of reversal possible and that some of the questions I have commented on will also take them into consideration in your young man. Thank you very much and very much late. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.17.0	Let's move on to the fifteenth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the relocation of entrepreneurs from Lleida's districts, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. [[Asking the Government about the relocation of Lleida's businesses]] [[300-00137/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.18.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, let me make a record and a strong sentence for the woman who was murdered yesterday in Barcelona. Counselor, the reason for today's inquiry is to share the content and recommendations of the Study on the relocation of Lleida businesses. Dimensions, causes and solutions, title of the study that the Chamber of Commerce of Lleida and the universities of Lleida and Pompeu Fabra, that you must surely know, not only for the inquiry, but also because, obviously, members of the Government were also present in the presentation of this study. This study asks us all, beyond the ''and you''', which is not the object of this inquiry, or to say that it's all bad and it's all good, but to try to draw the clear water from those repeated fears that ask us for companies, the business fabric, that ask us for the economy of our country and that we don't just focus on how it works. There's been talk here about how we avoid depopulation. I therefore believe that business policy is very important in order to avoid the depopulation of certain territories, as well as to prevent companies from stopping from Catalonia, so I can leave, and I will refer to it later. The reason for the study, what was he trying to solve? Three questions. If this was a real problem, the relocation of enterprises, and indeed it was observed with data; which factors motivated it, and measures to try to retain it or capture investments. As I said, we have to avoid demagogies, which has been getting a lot lately, but we do not have to add to the difficulties or the pending assignments. We sincerely believe that there is a paradigm shift, a shift from a look at the business fabric, to the productive economy, which, for many reasons, when you come out and ask, surely not for the support of the company councillor, but for the support of the general public administration or the government council, are not content. And, for that reason, something has to change. Another objective: to stop talking about sensations and realising how much we are talking about, with data from the Trade Register. Therefore, see how many companies go, how many companies come, which is also what goes on in other territories. In this study he is a fan compared to the provinces of Girona, Tarragona and other provinces of the State with a demographic similar to ours. So we're going to companies, we're going to new investments, which sectors are leaving, and we're going to see what we have to do to try to be more competitive. So, in the end, see if we're doing well and what the other territories are doing. Study, what do you say? That between 15 and 2020, between 2015 and 2020, 428 companies moved their social outside of Lleida. Mercantile Register. They're leaving more than they're coming. I said they compared it. This given is superior to other similar provinces, such as Valladolid, Badajoz, Cantàbria or the same Girona and Tarragona, as I said. Destiny from the companies that were leaving. There's a capital problem here. The capitals are buiding the territory. I, therefore, first go to Barcelona, a thirty-nine_per_cent; second, to Osca, and not to the great capital, but much to the line bordering Aragó; third, to Madrid; fourth, Tarragona, Zaragoza. Here are other studies that say that the foreign investment 2020 is concentrating, three_quarters_parts of the foreign investment of 2020 is going to Madrid. It's yours. That does not mean that the investment in immobilization is going to Madrid, because a very important part – Mr. Canadell will be happy – goes to Catalonia. But we can't lose sight of the fact that the fact that we don't have this attraction of yours remains competitive. There's a peak – which is not thoughtable, but it's evident – from the start of 2017 and 2018 – there's a peak, isn't there? Therefore, in 2018, the companies that went to Osca multiplied by three compared to the previous year, and those that went to Barcelona reduced to less than half. So don't worry, we're not going into any more of this. On the sectors, all the agri-food sectors mainly in Huesca; manufacturing industry, professional activities, construction, fertilizer trade, to a different extent in Barcelona or Madrid. And why are they leaving? Most important, counselor. We were just getting along, that's all, because we have a problem. Attitude of the authorities. This is done with these, too, to the companies that have gone; these and also interviews and various methodologies. Bureaucratic. We have made a thousand standards, many decrees, but we do not get out so as to speed up the bureaucracy. Tax regulations and adverse urban planning. It can't be that at twenty_metres Catalonia doesn't let you make a ship to make..., of the agri-food sector, that needs bigger naus, and at the head of fifty_metres you can make..., with other urbanist regulations, therefore, you can make..., and give this claim. Theme of subsidies, availability of industrial soil, availability of workers, transport of goods. I'm working on the parenthesis. It's not just from Catalonia that respects Madrid; it's from Lleida, for example, transporting goods, it's from Tarragona – for example. I also understand why we had to ask a question about how we were to spend on infrastructure, how we were to invest in infrastructure... I think it would also be good to rethink a little territorial map in Catalonia that was more balanced, more radial and of the future than everyone else completes, the money that comes. What have they done to Aragó, for example? They have made the PIGAS, which is a decree of plans and projects of general interest of Aragon. In theory here we had a law to facilitate economic activity, which in theory was to be the same. But when you talk to the companies, they say, "Listen, I'm going to Aragó and I'm doing it all the time, well, plus, if it's a supramunicipal project, it's all going faster and faster. Here, counselor, what happens to our decree, which is not unfolding, or, if it is unfolding, do I think the results are not desirable? Tributes. Here's when you're ass-to-earth. We were, we all know..., in favor of paying taxes to support the welfare state, but what can't be, is that, autonomous taxes like, to Aragó there's not three, to Madrid there's not one, that's who we're competing with, that's who we're competing with, that's where the companies went, and here we've got twelve. Therefore, many considerations can be made – tax dumping, non-know-what, financing –, many considerations, but we don't explain stories to companies. One company is about to shut down, some have difficulties, some have difficulty overcoming the economic crisis, others have difficulty overcoming the pandemic and others will not overcome the crisis resulting from the invasion of Ukraine. Excessive energy costs, difficulties in raw materials and over-inflation. Therefore, we need to act and act quickly, and see everything that affects in a very direct way the competitiveness of companies. And, above all, that they are not twelve taxes, that it is not the import that they pay, they are also administrative processes for everything that they are bigger than the territory of the coast. Possible solutions? We share some of them, who are on the report, but above all to say: "Should you listen to us, let us do something urgent, let us do it quickly with concrete measures and let us work with the sectors concerned, with the company. The public administration and this Parliament will not save the business and economy of this country, but if we do not trace the path, obviously this will be impossible to do. And leadership must obviously be political and public. Infrastructures. A study by Oriol Amat in 2019– Opportunity Territories– also indicated that there has been a slump in investment in infrastructure– road, rail, airport, technological infrastructure – since 2010. The 2010 crisis led to a fall in assumptions and a fall in investment in infrastructure in Lleida's districts, in this particular case; generally in Catalonia, but more acutely in Lleida and, more importantly, in a much larger and more complex territory. Cal, obviously... the study also recommends that there be more administrative agility. Detect companies that may have problems – as is now known, that there are many – so see how we help them before they have to fold, before they have to move. Making supramunicipal plans for projects of interest. It cannot be together with its urban criteria. There are plans that transcend and that, therefore, there must be a mechanism that can be done. Unique window. We haven't talked much. They have taken action, but when you ask, so obviously, it hasn't just worked. Or the creation of investment-generating polygons. For me, it's a big issue – and it's not, because it's the last, the least important – it's prestige of enterprise and enterprise. I think... at the social picture. We have a problem, and it is that business wealth creation is not prestigious at this time, either because of guilt or because of many things. But I think that here we all need the government in general to give a message to try to say that doing business is good whenever, obviously, you do good business and you think quality jobs. Therefore, we have a public administration that is not business-oriented, very safeguards-oriented and that we should see how we can rethink it. Nothing more, Counselor. I hope, we have read the report, that we have told us what it looked like, that we have added it with all the knowledge we have of other information, and see if we can take steps to try to solve this problem we have on the table. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.19.0	The word now has the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.20.0	Thank you, President. He said, Member: "We don't explain stories to companies. Actually, we don't explain stories to them, we explain things to them as they are. And from this point of view, I have always been much in favour of including the metric – therefore, the objectivity of the facts – in the decision-making method in the political sphere. So let public policies, which have the emphasis that they have, have the inspirational philosophy from an ideological point of view that they have, but which are sustained on objective facts, on data. And from this point of view, the studies, which we have not only read, we have taken very directly, so help us in this line. Because it is not just the study to which you refer – and that, obviously, I will talk about – of the Chamber of Commerce of Lleida, made for Pompeu Fabra University and the University of Lleida, but also another study made with a certain priority on the part of the economic and social agents of the demarcation, which pointed out some very similar things, and which is what this report points out. You've commented on some data. I also want to mention it. Some of you have already placed them on the table, others have not commented on them, and for me they are also important to take the general picture of the situation, not only in the demarcation of Lleida, but I would say that, by extension, to the economic situation throughout the country, that it is not strictly the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, eh? Because that's what I want to talk about. That is to say, there are some lessons they have to do with territoriality and balance at the country's side. But we go to the data, as I said: 428 companies, it's true – and that's with data from the Trade Register – they've gone or they've taken their own social – the morning is important, and you've recognized it – from Lleida's demarcation. Of course, 428 companies. But for another band, 341 have come to the demarcation. It is true that this continues to make a negative balance of less than 87 businesses, but it would be a good thing to refer only to a given without putting the other on the side. The same way I think it's a partial and incomplete photo if we don't take into account that the creation and consolidation balance of the territory's enterprises has been positive over the last few years. In fact, 758 mercantile companies have been set up at the demarcation, which is 28.5_per_cent more, which is more than the middle of the State, than not above – for a little while, but not above – at the twenty-yield_per_cent. That's to say, in one year – because these are annual data – twice as many entrepreneurs have been created as they have been in the last six years. And I'm not saying that to question the conclusion of the studies, I'm not saying that to relativize or deny the warnings, the warnings, that make us the economic and social agents of the demarcation. On the contrary, I've already told the beginning, we take them very seriously. I'm telling you to take the full picture, because, in the line of what I said before, of objectivity in the making of decisions, it's important to keep all the information, and not just one. And what is the information we have and who are the findings we can make? And, if you want, these are more structural than not conjunctural: that we have a demarcation with a strong economy, with a diversified productive structure. This is very important: there is no monoculture, and obviously there are major sectors. You have spoken about agri-food – certainly, agri-food every time –; for example, also ICT or logistics; a certain growth in the sector or subsector of packaging, etc. Therefore, economic diversification, productive, which is also very interesting. And also every time more internationalized. It's an economy that, as you must know, Member, every time it's more internationalized, every time it's more exporting. So I think we need to put this in value, and that's what we need to know how to take advantage of, and that's what we need to know how to empower. But we're going to the destination, say so, huh? , from this market of companies – I say it again, we do not need it; on the contrary, we put all the focus –: fifty per cent of the companies that have gone away have gone to other points of the country, to other points of the Catalan territory. Therefore, more than half have moved from Lleida to Barcelona, also to Tarragona and a little less to Girona's demarcation. In fact, in percentages, this is a forty_per_cent, almost, in Barcelona, a 9.3_per_cent in Tarragona and a 2.8_per_cent in Girona. So, most of it, diguessim, huh? These displacements have been to their own country. It's true, as you said, that then he sees Aragó, huh? , and therefore there is a strong competence, from this point of view, of a territory like Aragó, but fifty-u_per_cent have moved between the territories. What brings us to the reflection he was trying to introduce to the principle, which is: how do general policies fix capital and talent to the territory, or, in other words, to generate pro-opportunities? It's not just because businesses are created, but because, a consolidated time and a growing time, you don't have to leave the demarcation – whether you're Lleida or anyone else – in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area to have these opportunities. That's what I think it's about. We will also talk about the concrete questions, certainly, but it seems to me that there is this issue at the base. And we want to work for Catalonia forever, for the country's conjunction, and so any point in the territory has, as I said before, the same opportunities that can be held in the city of Barcelona and its surroundings. Because our ultimate goal is shared prosperity, and that also has to do with territorial balance. And from this point of view, precisely last week we were with the president of Germany and we were able to talk about it with the government of Baden-Württemberg, who has a vision, right? , and an economic structure similar to ours, saving all the differences, and, therefore, some problems in some moments of technical changes also very similar..., which we put on the table the need for the creation of special economic eco-systems on a territorial basis, and, therefore, to foster the basis that there is for every raccoon of our country for which it makes talent, for which it makes a firm structure based, for which it makes a certain degree, as it says, of speciality, to put it in value and make it the future bet. Certainly, because these steps need infrastructure. And, when you said: "The assumptions did not contemplate the investments necessary to the demarcation of Lleida, it is true that he did not say so, but I was only reminded of the Generality of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality. And if we're referring to the question that had been raised by a deputy, Mr Terrades, from his own group, to the vice president, then, man, here I've missed a bit of criticism of the government of the State, for the abandonment of the investments of the last few years. The arrival of the high-speed train shows how important, in this case, are infrastructure for tourism, for conventions, to put Lleida on the map, but there is not enough. With the arrival of the high-speed train, there's not enough. This whole network of capillary infrastructure is missing, which you raised as a failure, but which only pointed to the Government of the Generality, and here there is a very great responsibility on the part of the Government of the State. A responsibility that is also transferred to the capitalist effect, because the capitalist effect is not only provoked by determined policies that can make an autonomous community, that can make, in this case, Madrid. You see the attitude of the State: by active, in relation to Madrid, but also by passive, of leaving the investments to the rest of the territory. Therefore, infrastructure is essential to consolidate the opportunities that any demarcation of our country can have. And, finally, I think it's also important that in the moments that we are, we continue to take advantage of the transformations of the product model that are strategic, in these moments, to relaunch the territory. In any case, we basically share the four areas of resolution of the situation, which are, of one band, the best of the infrastructures – now I was talking about it – but, of the other, the creation of mechanisms for attracting investments, prestige the enterprise and the enterprise – completely in agreement with what you said in this sense – and, finally, encourage administrative agility. Of these four, I want to address three, which are those that correspond most directly to the scope of the responsibilities of the Department of Enterprise and Work, which are the three last, namely, attracting investments, prestige of the enterprise and administrative agility. In any case, now I don't have time to go deeper into all of them – second of all I want to highlight it – but in any case, I would like to make one last reference to this first intervention. It is essential that, as the country, we take a territorial view, certainly, and identify – and in this we are helped by the economic and social agents of the territory – the concrete problems, in this case, of the demarcation of Lleida and the solutions offered to the private sector. We are absolutely in favour of the joint work concertation. Now, it is also a key that we know how to work strategically in a country key, because this reinforces the stakes that can be made at the territorial level, which means to take advantage of the moment of change, the lever movement, precisely to position Lleida taking full advantage of its potential. Then I will talk and address these questions, which are the solutions that we share and that we have to put on the table to reverse a situation that we have not only read, but we have understood and accepted. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.21.0	Then, has the word the deputy Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.22.0	Counselor, I will begin my reply as the day of the commission. I agree with everything you say, but something doesn't work. Something doesn't work, because, of course, I'm wearing it... we're doing these thoughts here today, but the dynamic of... the data tells us that something is not doing very well. We have a lot, a lot of people, a lot of points in favor, a lot of points because things go well with us. Catalonia is a entrepreneurial society, it is a talented society; but for the changes that there is or for what it is, so today we are not competing well enough. Listen, are we competing with Aragó? It's that we don't have to compete with Aragó – that we also compete with Europe, and in certain sectors we compete with the world. The question, the question is: today and here, can we say that we are competitive enough at the time of setting up a company or at the time of maintaining a company? Big or small, why – didn't you say, huh? – the majority of those who went away were small businesses – small businesses. So the big ones are a problem, because they charge a lot, because they have a lot of money, but it's also the small ones, because most of them surely..., that I don't know anymore, but they are certainly familiar, more so; so... Say: "And don't go there where there is your factor, where there are large clusters of people. No, no, they're going to the Litera, to very small populations, just to be at the first town to touch the Aragó. We therefore believe that cross-cutting, transformative and paradigm shift policies are taking hold. And that's neither liberal nor not-know-what; no, no. I mean, listen, the world is changing. We compete today in a very complex world, with many changes and many difficulties that we have on the table, and here what will be destroyed will be what it will be possible to do. And, therefore, we have all the elements so that things go well with us. I think we have them, but we need to change some fears. Thirty per cent of the companies left Catalonia; some in Barcelona, but thirty per cent left. And, therefore, we must try to see, above all... some must be inevitable, but we must see if they are avoidable. And the answer is that yes, some of these were perfectly avoidable to walk away from. So, what's clear is that if we're more sure than anyone else, or restricted, then, obviously, this remains our competitiveness. If we pay more taxes than anyone else, that remains our competitiveness. And, therefore, the balance at the end ends up being denied, in sectors, more or less, very strategic– very strategic. There are great companies... There is one element of the study – that we could make an appendage of the study that has been made – that's what investments that have come here have not come or have already decided..., somewhere else. Therefore, I believe that here..., he said: that not Marxin, who is left, and he said: that there are investments, new businesses, that obviously we all agree that this should be done. I think the one that we have to ask here today to the government..., I mean, what happens to the law of economic facilitation? Why have we approved so many things and talked so much about it, that then... the law works, counselor? You think it works? Yes or no? Or do we have to look for another landing? I think we already have her. Make it work, deploy it. There may be some shortcomings; so let's make a change, if necessary, because I'm doing more deeply. And when I told him... but, above all, we need to look for cross-cutting policies, because, for example, at school... we may also need to make a statement about what we teach at schools or what message we give to public opinion. I think it's very important to teach how to do business from a point of view of social responsibility, ethics; to create quality occupation, to create good teams... It's that maybe we don't explain it. So, as we said before... I say before, what did I say: lack of infrastructure? No, no, The study of the Oriol Amat said..., made a general reflection; he also spoke of the Generality, but..., a general reflection, to say: if since 2010 the infrastructures – Generality and State – have fallen apart, this remains competitiveness in a flagrant way. So, it's already, agafi-ho..., agafi-ho this way. Like the lack of industrial soil. It's just that there's no industrial, and if there's little, the price is high. Oh, come on, there's no industrial, and what's there is bus. Therefore, we must also, of course, consider here an approach of what industrial alone we have, because, if not... we are seeing it: the great investments, the great enterprises, the great polygons of economic activity are going to the other band. Therefore, I believe that here we could also... have the opportunity to create sectoral investment-generating policies. And the agri-food sector is not a clear case, but we would also have to keep track of technology or innovation..., see how we are sectorally able to attract investments, attract very sectoral enterprises and compete in certain territories, which we already have. Therefore, to see how we take advantage of it. Well, ultimately, counselor, thanks for the reflections. We were trying to see if this could help to see how we push these changes that we're asking for and that make the sector and the study manifest. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.23.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, has the word Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.24.0	Thank you, Congressman. It seemed to me that it made a distinction between companies leaving the country and those going to Barcelona. They're a problem with Lleida's demarcation, both of them, both of them. Obviously, what we want is to fix talent and opportunities in the territory. And before commenting on the four spheres of action that correspond to the set of actions that the government can do, but I wanted to focus on three, because they are the ones that make most reference to concrete issues that we manage from the Department of Enterprise and Work. The first is administrative agility. Different things that we've already started doing and that I think are very effective, and that we've started doing what we've recovered after many years of being, certainly, in some cases, stuck. For example, the unique business window. A few weeks ago we were able to sign the definite agreement with the municipal authorities, the deputies, the Open Administration Consortium of Catalonia and the Barcelona Assembly, which, with incorporation in the single business window gives coverage, finally, to the north-set_per_cent of the territory. And that's very important, because it ensures that we're getting away with the joint venture of the Catalan economy – the joint venture of the Catalan economy, but in particular the companies and even more specifically the peppers, which is to which the single business window is more directed–, 38_million euros in administrative transactions, which means time, which means, therefore, money that can be allocated to other things, to productive activity, and not to administrative issues. Thus, the unique business window, which from this gener already incorporates the noranta-set_per_cent of the territory. Then you said: "What happens to the Facilitating Law of economic activity? So, miri, it turns out we're explaining it. We are explaining the regulation that is necessary to be able to put fast tracks into practice, which, for example, you were posing on the table that Aragó has and that we are much needed to be able to always give coverage to economic activities, but more now that there are European foundations that have a deadline at the end of the 23rd and that we must be able to deploy..., so these fast tracks – which I always insist, are important, but more now – are incorporated through this standard deployment, with this regulation that was already in public display last November. And, finally, there is also another issue that is leading the Directorate General for Innovation and Entrepreneurship between the Department, which is a cross-cutting program – and when it says cross-cutting..., it is because it is inter-departmental – to identify all those elements, between the process of setting up economic activity claims, which constitute ampoules between the Administration, and, therefore, to all the processes. We've identified 137 actions of improvement, which are being diagnosed, and that we're already improving. Therefore, 137 steps that will help agile these journeys, go faster. This, from the point of view of administrative agility. From the point of view of the capture of investments: Action, through the offices of Lleida city and the Seu d'Urgell, in the last few years has managed to flush out six very important investment projects for the territory. And in this line we want to work, with verticals in which demarcation is more competitive. It competes with the world, especially in the field of agrobiotech, which is the great stake of demarcation, as Mayor Pueyo always reminds us. So, in this line, Action has to be able, as it has been the last few years, to pour more investment projects into the territory. Six in the last few years. We'll keep working on this line. And finally, and I know I'm saying it in a very short way – I'm sure we'll have an opportunity to keep talking about it – the third key element – we've talked about administrative agility, attracting foreign investment – the prestige of business and enterprise. And I look at what I'm saying from the left, and so, intuitively, one might think that we are more difficult, that it bothers us more with this speech that I'm going to make now, and absolutely, it's the opposite: I think it's still more valuable than our female, that it's someone who represents the Republican political settlements, of the Republican Left of Catalonia, as I represent. And it is the speech of defending the value of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in creating wealth, jobs and shared prosperity for the city as a whole, which is what we ultimately want and want. In this sense – the first government to do so, at the proposal of the Department of Enterprise and Work – the next 27th of June will be the National Business Day. That, of course, it's a symbolic act, it's a gesture, but in any case, it seems to us that it's a gesture that helps to go in this line of discourse that you claimed and that I fully agree with it. In fi, three elements that are cabdals. We'll keep working on it. Lleida's demarcation has an important potential, from an economic point of view. Actually, it's already unfolding. Deployment to per capita income, it's over the middle of the state. For what it does to exports, it has grown more than the European average. What we need to know, together with economic and social agents, is to seize all this potential and position it competitively in the future. I, to do so, identify the deficiencies and resolve them together. That is why these studies are to be appreciated to help us focus public policies through objective data. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.25.0	Let's move on to the seventh item on the agenda, the question to the Government about support for the scientific activities of the research groups, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Asking the Government about support for research groups' scientific activities]] [[300-00141/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.26.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor, Members and Deputies, Director General of Research... Before we begin, I would like to keep a record for Councillor Jordi Turull. Yesterday exactly four years ago he was in this same Faristol presenting his investiture to be president of Catalonia. He was hired the next day. Don't forget it. [[Greetings.]] So much for the last one. [[Greetings.]] Okay. Today, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, we wanted to ask her, Councillor Geis, to be able to discuss in her parliament a very important question for the world of research in our country: the new call for support help to research groups. Catalonia is a productive country – I like it better to say that it is a productive country, and not rich, because the rich always goes after taxes, and in this country, let's say, we pay more than we get. Catalonia is a productive country, because it generates talent and knowledge. And we need to reinforce that. We must prevent this chain of generations from collapsing into a web such as we have in Catalonia, which is very abundant and generous for what it does for research. We are talking about a very long tradition of men and women, often with scarce resources, but they have developed a great vocation for science, and this is not created with official butllete of the State. This Parliament will soon approve the law of science, which they intend to consolidate and strengthen all that works in this area in Catalonia. We also want you to serve in order to take advantage of opportunities for the future. And so, more than articles that are very closed, we want to define brands that allow us to take advantage of future opportunities. We are working to approve this law with a broad consensus, as was the past legislature with the national pact for the knowledge society, which was the result of consensus among all the agents of the knowledge system in Catalonia. The science bill now finds itself in a process of appearances. I like and enjoy being the rapporteur, and we are very happy with the quality of the debates that are produced in this very same building every day in the afternoon. We've had rectors, we've had search centers, we've had internationally recognized experts. It has been a luxury to be able to offer all this talent and knowledge we have in our home... that can enrich this article to make a better law than his advice sent us. We have, therefore, the objective of making the search a vertebrate element of Catalonia. We want to move the whole country forward to the same speed socially and territorially, to bring this innovation and this transfer of knowledge to all the roots of Catalonia. And, in this sense, if this preliminary draft of the law is processed by emergency procedure, we have wanted to make forty-six appearances. We could have done it, and we would be in the process of negotiating the agreements, but we wanted to mature it, we wanted to get rich, we wanted to do a good job. And, in this sense, now that Madrid is also a fan – here I see a deputy from the commons –..., now that Madrid also has a bill of law from science, as good as it is, as your deputy says to the committee, there is also an extended period in which Catalan experts can go to Madrid to explain a model of success. Not all CSIC's neix research. The centres near Catalonia are an example of the existence of life outside the CSIC and the ministries. And, therefore, outside of Madrid, too, in this long phase of deliberation, we can listen to the Catalan demands, such as, for example, the return of VAT to the research centres. Another element, before I put the question to you. This job, this task of promoting research, innovation, transfer to Catalonia, cannot only be done by the Generality. To facilitate effective public-private collaboration. It is essential that public universities, private universities that are also researching – that there are also no research centres in Catalonia –, research centres and peppers work more closely, because we see that the world's leading countries are not only researching, but also in innovation and transference, they are those where peppers have a very close collaboration with public universities and research centres. And in this sense, therefore, I can tell you, counsel, that it is good news to see that the large parliamentary groups of this chamber agree on how we improve and how we like the role of companies, their contribution to make the search for Catalonia and innovation can improve considerably in the next few years. Counsel, the National Knowledge Society Pact establishes the need to implement a stable research funding policy setting out assumptions for specific objectives. This compromise requires more resources, and, in this sense, it is very good news that the assumption of the current year's Generality contemplates a very important increase, of fourteen_per_cent, in the assumption. It's a very important leap and we have to value it, because so much good we can do it in our own years. This legislature we have of muscle the research system and the university system of Catalonia, because Catalonia, despite all the limitations of the last years, has been able to develop scientific infrastructures of the world's first level, as is the case of the Centre of Supercomputation of Barcelona, the Alba synchrotro or the National Centre of Genomic Analysis, among many others. He will advise, on November 2021 you appeared to the Research and University Commission and this Parliament to present the premise of his advice, and informed us that the increase for the search for this year's serious forty-three_per_cent. It's a very important jump. We are talking about some 90_million euros more than in the previous budget. That's very good news. When we talk about finance, we are talking about resources for science: human resources contracting, investment in infrastructure and equipment, value and transfer of knowledge. In this sense, in order to give concrete expression to my question, you also spoke in your speech about the support programme for research groups. In the later issue of the presupposition they had 23_million euros. You've devoted some long paragraphs, which I won't read now, to talking about how important it is..., proper calls that can improve, that can consolidate, that can adapt the reality changing to these support programs to the research groups, so from here on out of our innovation. Therefore, she would advise, we would very much like to be explained to us the main innovations of the proposed call for support to these groups; what could be the presuppositional endowment – if it is possible to announce an import – and if it is possible to improve some of the staff conditions for which it makes the greatest coverage for scientists or if there is to be some condition with more equality. So, then, let's wait for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.27.0	Thank you very much. Now the word "Recherca e Universitats" is "Constellera de Recherca e Universitats", Ms. Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.28.0	Good afternoon, President. Counsellor Argimon, MPs, MPs, Director General of Research... Thanks for the work done. And I thank Councillor Tremosa, Deputy Tremosa, and Junts for Catalonia for being able to discuss here, in their parliamentary office, the impact of this call. The call for research support groups, otherwise known in the university world as the SGRs, has recently been published. Obviously I share the reflections that you have pointed out, but this call, therefore, will be of approximately 40_million euros, which is an increase of 16_million euros respect to the call of 2017. But before that, let me also value the agreement that we have before us in the Executive Council of the Generality. Today in the Executive Board we have approved an agreement on quantum, the valley of the Mediterranean, science and applied quantum technologies. This agreement of the quantum that we have approved today also forms part of this fundamental strategy for the future of our society and of the type of research that falls into those technologies that will be important in the present and in the future, such as the field of quantum, and, therefore..., encourage the research and solidity of our communication networks with all that most sensitive information. This project of the Mediterranean Valley, the Quantum Valley Cat, counts on a premise, also provided for the council, of 500,000 euros, because the quantum is the front of a revolution that will also transform our society and our country. Quantum... at this time there are different initials both in Paris and Munic, let's say. And, therefore, Catalonia today leads this quantum revolution with this agreement that we have today in the Executive Council, which, moreover, will lead the Icfo, lead the ICC, and with the Autonomous University and the University of Barcelona. So, today too... that's very good research-related news. And, above all, I always say that we look all the way there... the Research and University Advisor has to think for fifteen or twenty years. And, therefore, photon energy, quantum, is an energy that today..., and quantum science is an energy that today we have laid very important foundations. And, in relation to this Quantum Valley Cat Quantum Quantum Quantum Quantum Agreement, we also have the SGR call. The call of the SGRs, which we have increased these 16_million euros, is a call that is very important in the field of universities, in the field of research centres, because it governs the university system with special attention to the field of humanities and social sciences. And these regulatory bases that have already been approved have a series of characteristics, which, broadly speaking, we have defined to the council and which I would like to point out that they have been approved unanimously in the Research Commission of the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. The first is that in this call for help there can be all researchers and researchers at all stages of the academic career and all disciplines, and that there can be as many research centers as universities. Its budgetary endowment, therefore, is what I said: it is 40_million euros, we increase 16_million euros respect the previous assumption. This call, therefore, vertebrae the entire search system, vertebrae the entire university system, because it is absolutely cross-sectional. A new _second is that in this call of the SGRs what we do is to implement the European strategy of open science, in such a way that all the research that is produced in the march of this call will have to be published in open, and, therefore, it will have to be public throughout the scientific community. This is also a measure, therefore, which is at the law of science that you are working on. And, therefore, in these SGRs we are already moving forward in this strategy, and, therefore, all the research you are doing with these 40_million euros must be public and must be available to everyone. Secondly, for the first time we incorporate the criteria of the gender perspective. At the 2017 call only twenty-i-u_per_cent of the research groups funded with the SGRs were led by women. Therefore, in this call there is a positive discrimination, with a concrete score, so that in the country we have more search groups led by women, with this positive discrimination. We'll try, so – we'll also see how you're a companion and how it's consistent with the groups – that we can reach forty_per_cent of search groups led by women researchers. In the third place – and we do this in an uncomplex way – the Government must recognise, it must put in value the research done with a country perspective and the research done in Catalan language. The government needs the best research on Catalonia and in Catalan language so that it can do the best public policies. Therefore, an economic report on what is the impact of the pandemic on different barrels of different cities in Catalonia..., this is a country-based research that interests us. And, therefore, the government has to hold it; it has to hold it and it has to put it in value. A research done on the scope of history... – I don't know what it is – or the language or culture or heritage that affects the català, so it must also be recognized and installed in value. Because, mainly, that search done with a country perspective and also published in Catalan language can be of the same category and value as it did in any other language. And, therefore, in this sense, I think it is very important to put this country-oriented research into value, because it also allows us to do some better public policies and is part of the strength of Catalan language. In fact, in this call we have also put in place... all research projects funded with the call of search groups must bear abstract summaries and key words in Catalan. A fourth characteristic of this call – it was much demanded for the university system – is that, with the help of this call, you can hire support staff to search. Everyone probably needs to be thinking about lab techniques; but not just that, but a documentary player can be hired with these aids. Therefore, in this sense, as far as we are concerned, too, to benefit from the incorporation of staff, this call allows, and it was absolutely demanded. So that out of the 1,700 research groups we had in 2017, we aspire to be able to grow in this call and to be able to grow also in its financing. And, finally, obviously, that doesn't solve everything. Therefore, this is an expected, agreed call, which increases these 16_million euros. That the deputy trembling that this law of science is going to allow us to make this leap and improve, and we are open, to the council, to all those issues that parliamentary groups, so..., not to lose this opportunity that we have with this law, to improve it. And, finally, there is also another idea, to the call of the SGR: that, in the end, it is the proper investigators who create search groups, in this call. Join and create search groups. And, therefore, what we wanted, on the basis of it, is that the researchers and researchers in this country were the protagonists and believed these research groups in all disciplines. And the other day, when the call was published, I received a message from an investigator who said: "We looked at the call of the SGRs and the resumes, and we thought we could add and choose financing. The idea is that we are part of different disciplines, but in this case, we can do more than we have done so far – so increase cross-cutting and allow for new research group unions. And I told him this was the end. I therefore believe that these SGRs are the front of this law of science, which we are redefining the country's knowledge system. We're making it with consent. We are aware that there are many policies that need to be addressed, which, of course, cannot be addressed all at once. But I think that this call was very much expected for the university system, because I think it allows this research to be enhanced in all areas, especially in the field of humanities and social sciences, with these characteristic traits that lie with us in Europe. And I am sure, as Congressman Tremosa, Councilman Tremosa, said, that the law of science will just provoke this leap, because it is obvious that this SGR call will be the last. With the law of science we will have to make a leap forward and we will have to think absolutely as if we were also a research state, and think of a national plan of absolutely ambitious research. And, therefore, this is the last, but we also had to do it well, and this is the last, but we also had to lay down the pillars for which the new law of science will be. Therefore, thank you very much to the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia for making this inquiry and for being able to talk about science, talk about research and talk about research groups here in the Catalonian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.29.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the planning and transformation of the health system. [[Question to the Government on the planning and transformation of the health system]] [[300-00142/13]] It has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, which has proposed it, Mrs Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.30.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor... We have spoken many times about the health system and today it will not be the last time we talk about it, even though we have been talking about it for a long time, because we are still in a pandemic and we don't have to talk about it anymore, but we can already say that we may have a little bit out of it. We need to finish taking the step, but it is obvious that we are talking about the system no longer just to deal with what is urgent, but also to deal with what is important to us. And what's important is to see how we orient in these next years the system of salvation at this time that will come, post-pandemic, and I would say, counselor, a little more there. I think the diagnostics have it all done, and I'd say we share it. Therefore, we do not just have to think, but above all we have to act and take concrete measures. Our health care system has responded to the pandemic with resilience and great effort and dedication of professionals working in teams and re-adapting space to the new needs, in many cases leading to virtuous shortcomings. But it's obvious that this effort has strained our system too much, and more so, in a way that we might say we don't remember in these last decades. And, therefore, as far as we are concerned, what are the causes, but also what consequences and what measures we must apply in order to reverse this situation. It's like a finance shot. I think it's an obvious thing that we've said many times in this faristol, because it's evidence, that the health system is underfunded. And we will not tire of repeating this until we can at least put in place measures that reverse this situation of chronic infra-financing, that passes through a band, to continue to claim this covetous fund that is not above Madrid and that they promised, and that would not be the solution to the infra-financing, but it would certainly help us to face, at least in short and medium terms, the changes that our health system needs, that we could play at first division, but sometimes it seems that we are doing it with resources from lower categories. Therefore, it is important, therefore, to make this reversal, and, at times, also to deepen in other areas that have so far certainly not been the strength or the significant weight in the assumptions that would heat, that is..., to invest in prevention, to invest in the promotion of salvation, that from this we will certainly see the return – from this reversal – to the medium and long term in the system of salvation. Therefore, we are ahead of a system that needs to be transformed, that needs to be improved, that needs to be strengthened, and we need to recover those forts that were already in place and that have been reinforced in this pandemic. But, at times, we also need to self-criticise and identify those weaknesses or shortcomings that the system has shown and that we now have an opportunity to reverse them, but not in a way that we can say conjuncturally, but in a long and structural way. Therefore, it is necessary to correct these weakened ones and introduce the better and the changes that are needed. On other occasions, we have discussed this fascism about the transformation of the health system, because it is an understanding that is fundamental at these times, and who are the transformations that we need hard to finish in our system into materials, for example, as primary care, which is obviously the gateway to the system, but which, at times, must also be much more resolute, must incorporate us professionally – but I am not just talking about the name, but of professional categories– it must be much more interconnected. We need to strengthen public health, but not only from the perspective of epidemiology – which I believe we have all seen now the importance of strengthening this structure – but also from the aspect of prevention, the promotion of health and other structures that accompany the fact that salvation transcends what would be the proper health system. The integration of health care and social care... Also the people's need for salvation is changing, and I think it's also an evidence to see how we live, how we care and how we want to be cared for, but not only in the process of aging, but also in other processes that surely need much more intensity on the part of the Administration in caring for us. I am talking, for example, about mental salvation, which must also reinforce it. Here, in this Parliament, we have made a monographic plethora, we have created a study commission, which shows more evidence of the importance of mental salvation to all of us. The role of professionals. There is a lack of professionals, a lack of specialists in many cases, both medical and infirmary. We need to talk about roles, we need to talk about competitions, how to incorporate new professions. We also need to talk about innovation and research; as we return to the clinic that research we are doing and as we innovate and look for these ways that the pandemic has also put us on the table, that are also new ways of working and that have given good results. The role of the citizenry. Sometimes we talk a little bit about it, and I think it's important to point out that if the system could be resilient, it's also for the responsible, careful and curated role of the citizenry, which I don't think we'd ever be very grateful for his patience and understanding, especially at the peak of the pandemic. And, therefore, we also need to highlight this paper that has touched the citizenry in the healing of the system of salvation. Investments, technology, reverse infra-financing – I said it before –... but we also need to talk about the obsolescence of a lot of technology that we have in the health system, which is also now another modification that we need to make, we need to take a step forward. The use of data in health, benchmarking. In Catalonia we are pioneers, we have always been pioneers in the comparison of data, in the use of data in a positive way, making a positive critique of our system, precisely to detect those points of improvement. And I think we need to take that back. The highest specialization of our third-partyism. It's good, it's powerful, we have a lot of speciality, we have a lot of... And, therefore, so should we keep it. Another challenge is territorial equity. We haven't talked many times, but we need to keep talking about it. That's why we're asking again, counselor, because last week the Department of Health presented the greeting plan of Catalonia 2021-2025. The plan of salvation, which already has an antiquity, we could say, of more than thirty years, and which marks how the system of salvation is to be oriented to the future, I think it is important to be able to present it here also to the Faristol; not only to the Commission – that we have already done a small task in a previous Commission – but it is also important enough that we talk about it in this Faristol. Why, besides, there was also a very precise display of what I'm saying right now, didn't you? , territorial experiences that presuppose advances and a series of initiatives that we must be able to recover for the proper functioning of our health system and that must be reference and lever of change for these better ones, that I believe we all agree, therefore, that they must be done to our system. Because the covid, if one thing has done, is to make everyone aware of the value of public health, universal and quality that we have here in Catalonia, and that, obviously, we want to maintain. We have many reps on the table – we have not talked much, I have listed a few, surely you will make more reference in your explanations – and I think we need to be able to deal with them with as much consensus as possible and focus on what time it is that we want all the folds for the health system, but they also resolve – but not only – what concerns us, we care about and care for us at these times; what gives us in the first place, to dig deeper into what is urgent, but without losing sight of what is important. I think we'll need some consent from all the agents involved. And, in fact, an example of this consensus has always been the elaboration and execution of the plan of salvation. It will be warm and generous to face the future. It's gonna take a long time to put the lights on, when we talk about the healthcare system in Catalonia, but I'm always very aware that we're still on a road of ravens and that we'll have to go putting the shorts every time we get convinced, but without losing sight of where we're going. And we have to do it with this vision of consent precisely so that it doesn't fall into the same lines, the same diagnostics, right? ...the same speeches and the same problems we're already detecting today, which we'll find again tomorrow. Among other things, because sometimes we talk a lot about recovering from what we had before the pandemic, and there are a lot of cases that... in this pandemic it's proven that what we don't have is what we need now and what we need in the future. And, therefore, we have an opportunity now to lay the foundations, the foundations, of what the health system we want for the future should be. That's why, counselor, it's obvious, isn't it? That we need a plan of salvation as you have worked and presented, this plan of salvation from Catalonia from 2021 to 2025. And that's the reason why we're asking you in this Chamber, Counselor, because you explain to us how you see the future of the health system, what we have to do from this health plan, how we can work, and how we can work from here too, from this consensus that I explained to you, we can work because our health system in Catalonia, which is of quality, is universal, that it's public, so you're still this way and it's useful, because it's what we all want for our citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.31.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer, the words of the greeting counselor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.32.0	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, president, deputies, deputies. Mrs Laïlla, indeed, it is very important to get out of the pandemic and do so with a more robust health system. And we all saw – you said so yourself – the importance of having a universal public health system before this pandemic. And in this sense, we also need to move forward to have this system more solid with recovery, strength and transformation of the system. When we talk about recovery, we're talking about recovering the activity that we somehow left behind during the pandemic. Also to recover the professionals from the emotional point of view – and here are doing some actions – but also from their working conditions. And to recover, too, the citizenry: two years of pandemic will not pass from franc, they will not pass without leaving an important patty to our citizenry, to our people. When we talk about empowerment... we also said the need to provide more resources, more economic resources, the health system. We have this underfunding, which we've talked about in this very hemisphere many times, and I won't be there. But when we talk about transformation, we are talking about changes, about developments that will take a long time to respond to the needs of the citizenry. And we must not forget that the pandemic is one of the things that has happened to us that has created more inequalities in our society: social inequalities, economic inequalities, which, in the end, whether you want it or not, are translated into inequalities in health. And so will the change we will have in the need of salvation. The boss has changed in the last few years: each time there are more people who have problems of chronicity or dependence, an important impact on mental health, much more needing emotional well-being... And we need instruments that guide us and make this evolution possible. And from this point of view, one of the most important is the plan of salvation of Catalonia, which, as he has rightly said, therefore, we carry thirty years of plan of salvation. The Vergés Counsellor specifically commissioned an assessment of these thirty years of health care to the World Health Organization. And one of the elements that he was talking about is, precisely, all this continuity that he's had during all these years, and, above all, also the effect of the assessment that each of these plans of salvation has had precisely to improve, which are the elements of the best that will last. This plan of salvation, in any case, we approach it in one way or another a little different from the point of view of not getting so much into very concrete actions, that they are going to develop, like the need, each time more, to hear and put the emphasis in which salvation goes far beyond the absence of malalty, so that this emotional well-being of the person is very much taken into account both individually and collectively. It is also a matter of addressing everything that makes reference, as I have mentioned before, to the inequalities of salvation and to having a more inclusive view of salvation. To advance in this direction, the health plan proposes four great strategies, which are: the equality of opportunities at the length of life, healthy surroundings, integration of attention to health, universal change poles. And when we talk about equal opportunities in the long term, we are referring, among other things, to working much more deeply, to putting emphasis..., to the promotion of salvation, to the prevention of malalty and early detection, especially in more vulnerable people; to promoting emotional well-being; also to the prevention of suicide, the prescription of community actions to reduce isolation and the promotion of healthy aging. And that connects us with healthy surroundings. And the evidence shows us that we cannot limit health only and exclusively – only and exclusively – to health. The quality of the air, the water, the food, the urban environment, the habitation, the place of work... are elements that condition, and very, our salvation. And that's why cross-cutting actions are taking place. And from this point of view, mental salvation I think is the paradigm of these transversal actions. If we only think of mental health from the point of view of health care, we will fail. Integral and integrated care is also another key strategy especially for responding to people with chronic health problems and complex care needs. And here we have the challenge of putting on the march what makes reference to the Agency of Integrated Social and Health Care, which must allow us to redefin the attention we give to these people. In order to be able to carry out all these transformations that the system needs, there are some levers that make it possible to change, among them, the culture of health and citizen participation, the care of professionals, digital transformation, research, innovation, evaluation, transparency and the retention of accounts. All this is only an approximation of what the plan of salvation claims as the element of transformation and progress oriented to the better of the salvation of the citizenry. And, effectively – you have commented – we've had a hard time a few days ago, and here we've had a whole series of experiences, and here we are already very concrete actions, but they're going around. And they presented, therefore, actions directed to the humanization of care, to the prevention of suicide – which we have also mentioned – to us, to focus on intermediate care for infants with chronic diseases with significant impact, to the role of caregivers and patient associations, to the approach of childhood obesity, among many others. They are start-ups from many points of the territory, basically from low to high, from professional to high, and often with the collaboration of other sectors, and, above all, with the participation of the citizenry. It's about experiences that we need to inspire, and they can help us move forward on the path we propose. A path that is no more than achieving a more solid and robust system of salvation to improve the salvation of the citizenry, reduce inequalities and generate wealth and salvation throughout the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on health policy]] [[300-00135/13]] Let us move on to the agenda item, the question to the Government on health policy, which was presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, how complicated it is to summarise in just ten_minutes the important shortcomings of the public health system in Catalonia. The truth is that you have to have a great synthesis capacity to structure an inquiry where you put the main black holes that sterilely absorb the resources of your department. Look, we consider that there are three major axes that are interrelated, being the problems of some consequences of each other's bad governance. We begin with the great failure of primary care management, and it is that, as it is currently structured, it is ineffective as a prevention service and useless in problem solving. An underfunded structure, without guidelines and with a tired and unmotivated staff. Primary care is provided with 2,974_million_de_euros, consolidated budget for 2022; in 2019 – pre-pandemic – 2,700_millions were used in its financing. We're talking 274 million more, a high percentage. A percentage with a reduction in activity: closed CAPs, reduction of hours in the staffing of many professionals or elimination of specialists in certain positions. More economic means for less work, a capital that is not reflected either in the improvement of health care and in the improvement of infrastructure. In short, more funding with worse service. You will see, following the plan to strengthen primary and community care of the years 2020-2022, a total of 4,500 professionals were hired in Catalonia until January 2021, which have been distributed among the 377 existing primary care teams. This represents an increase in staff of nineteen per cent. Of the 4,854 registered professionals, 2,358 are professionals with administrative functions; 945, nursing professionals, and only 221 correspond to doctors, psychologists or dentists. But of those 221 professionals, only fifty were family doctors. And these are data provided by you to questions written by this parliamentary group. Four_thousand_eight hundred_eighten_and_nine family medicine specialists were on staff in 2020, compared to 4,939 in 2021. The full 2021 reports are not yet, but they are still in the same line. The proof is that in February 2022 we knew that, of the one hundred and fifty psychologists announced that they were going to be hired, only forty and five had been hired. Not content with this, and due to the lack of doctors, contracts for doctors without speciality multiply by five via MIR, with a more than dubious training. Of the 167 doctors in staff and eventuals without speciality in 2020, you go to 812 in 2021. As you know, specialized training in Spain is one of the best in the world and responds to quality standards that Catalans deserve, and that you deprive them of with these recruitments, with the consequences on their health and the lack of confidence that it generates. The result of the lack of doctors is that patients despair by calling out to outpatient clinics to request an evaluation that never arrives. Unanswered calls, space visits... Anyway, they don't get the right follow-up due to lack of personnel or lack of medical training. And the closure of many outpatient clinics and the constant reductions in staff lead to the workload of those who remain open. And it is that in December 2021 the average wait in Spain for a visit to an outpatient clinic was five days; in Catalonia it was twelve. Prevention and follow-up are therefore weak. All this has a direct impact on the second axis: the failure of hospital care and its endless waiting lists. When primary care does not work, patients arrive in worse conditions at the hospital: patients with acute pathologies due to lack of adequate follow-up and patients with new pathologies that could have been prevented with adequate community medicine. Emergency services collapse hospitals due to lack of access to a head doctor. And, due to the poor conditions in which the population arrives, the volume of hospital admission is increased: more patients on the waiting list, making Catalonia the autonomous community with the largest surgical waiting lists from all over Spain, with more than 141,000 people waiting, and with an average wait of 152_days. On the other hand, there are obsolete and deteriorated infrastructures, which are faithful reflection of the state of our system and which only highlight the complete defeat of public health. And finally, the failure of human resources management. Systematic ill-treatment of health personnel is reflected in the flight of talent in Catalonia. The abandonment by the public administration of this collective has led us to the dramatic situation in which we are currently in. We talk about the lowest salaries in Spain, the care overload or the lack of continuing training. Or the sectarian policies that you carry out prioritising the level C of Catalan over proper medical training. We are also talking about the assaults on optionals, which in Catalonia have increased by 126_per_cent in 2021 compared to previous years. And all this, in the face of the impassive look of the Department of Health. We have even pointed out on several occasions how public health deceives health care providers with false additions to what they later dedicate, as was done last July, a game of trilers to take advantage of what you have called 'essential workers'. The unfortunate thing about all this is that we are talking about the department with more funding from the Generalitat de Catalunya, and we are talking about the autonomous community with more debt from Spain, that is, that more extra money has asked the Government of the nation: twice as much per citizen as the Spanish average, ten_ thousand versus five_ thousand. And yet, while the per capita health expenditure in Spain for 2022 is €1,679_euro, in Catalonia it is 1,456 – almost three hundred_euro less. There is money, but not for the health of Catalans, because for you this is not a priority. Counselor, on a beard of a fool you learn to shave. Pick up the reviews and start prioritizing. Our health system deserves the Government to focus its efforts on recovering a structure that is currently weak and decadent. Our health workers deserve the administration to pick up the glove that has been thrown at them so many times. And Catalans deserve quality, robust and reliable health. There's money to do it, do it. But, above all, do not continue to wait, because this despair leads to the situation in which we find ourselves right now, which is a total and absolutely ruined health. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.35.0	The words of the greeting counselor, Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.36.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, we have a very good health system that has deficiencies – I have never, ever guessed them – and to avoid these deficiencies I have also claimed and claimed and I will claim more funding. But we have a very good health system, and that's what we have to say. And we have a lot of good health professionals, who, by the way, have been giving it to him for two years and still giving it to him because we can have a salvation and we can get out of a pandemic the way we're not getting out. And you started talking about primary care, and you were talking about maybe less activity. I should say, for example – and I have explained this, and I have explained it publicly – that there have been days, for example, during this month of generation, that the primary attention paid daily to 200,000 visits– 200,000_1,000 visits–, that the year 2019, the same time, was 95,000. Therefore, they have worked, and a lot – and a lot. It is also true that if we look, for example, at these, and look at the issue of the OCUC, Catalonia is very well positioned, second place, as to the value of primary care. If we look at the CEO, the primary care – and that's true – approves, but it's not, say, the health area you get the best note; it's better note than the hospital environment, for example. But when we look at what's the best note they give Catalans... it's vaccination. Listen, who led the vaccination? Mostly... not exclusively, but mostly primary care. When we had problems with the residences, who went in there? Primary attention. When we said: "We need to change the pandemic approach on July 20, and we said: "We need to go looking for the virus and we need to crack, who did it? Primary attention. When, I repeat, we have to put ourselves in the vanguard of vaccination, who did it? Primary attention. So from this point of view, they've done a lot of good work. You also talked about human resources. Certainly, we have a health demographic problem, and this one we brought here too. Certainly. Now, apart from the primary care enhancement plan, which we are now in a second phase, we have set up and started working – precisely by linking with what he explained earlier, by prevention and promotion of health – a whole program of emotional well-being: at these times..., practically two hundred psychologists and psychologists, in primary care teams – this is proven – working on the emotional well-being program, working with the appropriate professionals as well as primary care teams. And not just that. We are already carrying..., another element of prevention and promotion of health, which are all healthy habits referring to healthy nutrition. And we've put in and we're putting in nutritionists, over fifty, embedded in these moments in the primary care team. And in the second semester we'll start, too, with this same perspective of promotion and prevention, putting in physiotherapists. Therefore, we are strengthening the primary attention from this perspective of promotion and prevention. Because I need to remember that primary care is primary and community care, and what we're doing is working all this community environment precisely to – as you said, and very well – prevent for, after..., that we don't have to come, in some moments, therefore, to a more chronic disease, etc. He told me about hospital care and he told me about a situation of waiting lists that we don't have a safe haven, I also say very clearly. Listen, we in this have been very transparent in Catalonia. Since 2004, when no one does, they publish all the results of the centre-by-centre waiting lists. I will also remember that 2011 – before there were only a few pathologies – began to publish the whole list of waits, all when no one did. That later he posed, precisely, with open data, because people can work, search, analyze, and, therefore, also do everything that is a retention of accounts. Listen, look for me where this is going to be, look for me where it's going to be. He won't find it anywhere, that. He won't find it at the garages – he won't find it at the garages. Therefore, from this point of view, we know that there are waiting lists, this is not to be taken away, but we also know that... from this point of view, I will only tell you some data, such as, for example, that Catalonia has centres accredited for sixty of the seventy-one CSUR procedures. CSUR are the centers, you serve and reference units. What do you mean? That people... that's the country, yes, Catalonia, that has more, isn't it? It's the territory that's got the most. And, escorts, the other territories with highly specialized units, especially for minority ills, come to Catalonia. Why? So because we have a very good service, a very good public service; because we have a service of excellence, that we also have to say. There have been twenty-four European reference networks of minority malalties – twenty-four. Catalonia has twenty-i-four, it has representation at twenty-i-four. And that's also a fact that tells us what is the excellence of our health care system. And, certainly – certainly – this excellence is given to us by very well-formed professionals, with a very well-formed, really good, post-graduate training system, which is what gives us this solid that we have to keep on maintaining, that we have to keep on hurting. And, in this sense, they'll always find us here. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.37.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, Mr. Counsellor, the truth is that your answer has been a genuine justification. With the one that's falling and the one that's suffering a lot of people, it's time to take the bull by the horns, not pat yourself on the back. I'll give you some data. Ten_per_cent decrease in primary care activity with respect to prepandemia, according to the Catalan Society of Family and Community Medicine. Look, you have the solution within reach of your hand, and I have no doubt that you are able to shed light on those black holes we used to talk about. And it all comes down to the same: the lack of resources, the lack of investment, the lack of will and the lack of scruples of the Government in implementing sectarian and ideological policies, obviating the real problems of the Catalans day-to-day. We could well end the lack of funding for primary care. Look, always taking into account the data given annually by the RECH – the Spanish Network of Hospital Costs – with the cost of external action counseling, 94_million_de_euros, 2,200 primary care doctors could be hired. Almost 3_million_de_euros was the budget for the Museum of History of Catalonia in 2020; with that capital we could hire a hundred more psychologists. The Council of Equality and Feminisms costs us 92_million_of_euro. Do you know how to help women work? Withdrawing the sexual predators. Start by withdrawing Dr. Desolà, convicted of sexual harassment, manager of the hyperbaric chamber at the Moisès Broggi Hospital, a company that you have held in concert and without bidding for decades, according to the Union of Accounts. With this amount that the council uses in sterile policies we could invest in the CAP of the municipalities of Bellaguarda, Granadella, Solera, Juncosa, Els Torms, Granyena, Llardecans, or the regions of the Garrigues, the Conca de Barberà, Noguera and Segarra. Or even here, in Penitentes and Vallcarca, who need a CAP and who have been asking for it for years. Or by deleting the Catalan Institute for Women – 10_million_de_euros – which is exactly what it costs us 52,000 – 52,000 – primary care consultations. Instead of playing space odyssey for a value of 3_million_of_euros of two nanosatellites, you could reinforce with fifty doctors the primary care team of the Terra Alta, a region that has thirteen doctors to attend the consultations of twelve villages. Do you want us to end the surgical waiting lists? Ramon Llull Institute, which promotes Catalan culture and language abroad. It has a budget of EUR 2.5 million. With this we would place 2,075 hip prostheses, including the paid grandmother who has been working all her life and contributing and who has been waiting months, immobilized in a bed, for surgery of this type. The Diplomat, 2_million_of_euros; equivalent to 573 knee prostheses. Consortium for Linguistic Standardization: its function, imposition of Catalan; endowed with 35_million_of_euro; involve two hundred kidney transplants or one hundred_seventy pancreatic transplants. Catalan tax agency, created for the sole purpose of stripping Catalans with fifteen own taxes, but it is that, in addition, it costs us 200_million_of_euros, millions that could be used annually in 189,000 surgeries major outpatient surgery. Here you are, counselor – here you are. Is there a political will? Is there political will to do so? Do you want to offer Catalans quality health, which they deserve? Well, look, get together with the government and do it, because it's in your hand. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.39.0	I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.40.0	Congresswoman, I'll be brief. I'll be brief, because the subject of health professionals goes a little further than saying that if I have 100_million I'll hire so many people. So far..., I come more or less to divide, to sum up..., still more or less I'm insurgency. And, therefore, I know that if I have so many millions I can contract... The problem is..., it's another, and you know it much better than I do – much better than I do. It is a matter of human resource planning, which certainly – certainly – has failed. And he failed... not here, because, besides, it's not just Catalonia, because good part of this planning of human resources doesn't depend on us. We'll like to hear it or we won't like it, but that's it. Therefore, planning of human resources. And say: "I will hire fifty meths... Listen, if I go into the work bag, I will not find them; nor fifty meths, I will not find them. They're not – they're not. For what I've said: planning for human resources. And good part, I repeat, I insist, it's not in our hands. Then, you in detail, if you allow me to express myself, so, in museums, in institutes of language, culture... Listen, culture is salvation – culture is salvation – and many of the things you have commented are salvation. It is that we must have a vision – and that is what we believe – in the plan of salvation..., a vision much wider than salvation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-22-2701.41.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. So we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine.
