ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.1.0	Good morning. Let's get back to the session, even though we woke up today with some really bad news. This morning there was a Russian military action that could be the initiator of an invasion of Ukraine that severely violates international law. We must call on the European Union and the international bodies to take decisive action to resolve this conflict for democratic lives. I regret that violence and war continue to be considered a method of resolving territorial conflicts and calling for mediation to preserve life and to preserve human rights in Ukraine. This Parliament has repeatedly stood in favour of the peaceful resolution of conflicts and I hope to express the majority feeling of this chamber when I say that I wish to see the end of hostilities and return to the path of negotiation and to the path of diplomacy. Never force is imposed by democracy and negotiation, because violence never solves any political conflict. As the popular savies say, Vincent Andres Estelles also retreats: "Woe to wars and what has done to them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of waste]] [[302-00094/13]] Let's start with the split of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the management of the residue. The Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group has presented it, and it has the word, to make its presentation, the deputy Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.2.0	Thank you, President. We, too, add to this call to the pau and to the negotiated way for the resolution of the conflict in Ukraine. But I'm starting with this young man, and I'd like to start by marking the three goals we're pursuing at the time of presenting this young man. First objective: to complement the European directives of 2018 and 2019, of circular economy and also of the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment; it is to say, to have a new law of residue in Catalonia that allows us to achieve the objectives of recycling. Because today I won't repeat them, they're in motion, but it's settled that, from 2025, every five years we have different objectives to achieve. Second: to plan and scale the infrastructures needed in Catalonia to achieve these objectives and to complete the treatment hierarchy marked by the European directives. It is to say, prevent and reuse, material valorization – what we mean by recycling –, energy valorization, and finally the abocator or controlled deposition. That's the order and not the others. First, energy appreciation, and finally catchy. And the third objective we are pursuing with this motion is to plan the closure of the two mouthpieces who at these times already have a firm sense of closure, Vacamorta and Solius to spin-off businesses, and a compromise not to expand these infrastructures, which, as I said, are the last option marked for Europe in the management of residues. On the first question, it seems that there will be political consensus on the need for the law and to update the two infrastructure planning documents in Catalonia, Pinfrecat and Precat. That's what we celebrate. Now, after the intervention yesterday of President Aragonès respect for the management of residues, I am obliged to say, first, that Catalonia is being resorted to better; second, that we have not completed the objectives that we ourselves have marked for the year 2020, and third, and I regret to say, but it does not seem stimulating or useful that the President of the Government of Catalonia is resigned to do better than those of the others, without having the ambition to be among the first in the management of residues. But in any case, in the generation of residuals we are at the same value five years ago, around five hundred kilos per inhabitant and year. So, in waste reduction we're where we were. In selective collection we are at 45,9_per_cent, sure; but far, far, of the sixty_per_cent that we have marked ourselves in the Precat for 2020. In inappropriate values: We bring up years to twenty-i-sis_per_cent of improper. We're carrying thirty-four percent of the residue to the mouthpiece, exactly the same as it was seven years ago. Therefore, can you explain to us which plan you have to download from thirty-four_per_cent to the deu_per_cent that marks us Europe, in two years, if in a set that we are nailed to the same value? It's just that the government, at this point in time, is not fulfilling the goals that had been set for 2020. And here comes the second block, where it's true and I have to say we have a big discrepancy. The government has not been in a hurry for anything, except for the moratorium, the dismantling and the closure of the valorization plants. As you explain, with two planning documents, two master documents, expired since 2020– or more than a year ago–, and with a law of residues that we need to update, you have promoted non-enlargement, closure, dismantling of valorization plants, that at these times are treating Catalonia the share of residues. What do they think they're doing with the residue? From our point of view, what they've done is launch into the sea without a chart of navigation, go without a compass and, let me tell you, act arbitrarily and not rationally. If we look at Europe, do you know what they value Europe? In Germany they have fifty-five_percent recycling; forty-four_percent energy recovery, and one u per cent avocador– one u per cent. Therefore, it is not certain that promoting energy valorization will reduce recycling, it is not true. In change, it is true that it works to change the abocator model for selective collection. But it is that, in addition, in the management of residues you know that the contribution to the winter-effect gases is about a five or a six_per_cent. But from this five or six percent, the seventy-seven is given to the shutters. Don't you see that you have to rectify the path you have taken? And as I've seen before that on different occasions the data doesn't seem to make them see this reality, I finally decided to calculate the economic cost of their policies. If we take over the emissions calculation made for the Catalan Office of Climate Change, we have to attribute 2.5_million_tons of annual carbon dioxide to the abocator. Yesterday, while preparing this intervention – and with this I finished – the price of carbon emissions oscillated to the EUR-north per ton. Therefore, the bill that you generate each year, at cost, in Catalonia is 225_million euros. And that's a lot, isn't it? So, miri, the economic advisor, yesterday, right? , was satisfied with the 400_million euros of foreign investment. So half of it leaks into half-gases and carbon dioxide. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.3.0	It has the word, then, to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Quim Calatayud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.4.0	Good morning, President. I add to his words, which, obviously, with violence will certainly not fix the king in Ukraine, as they did not fix the king with violence, the U of October, here in our land. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, a support for the people who are patenting it. [[Widow's remorse.]] Catalonia has always been a pioneer in the application of residue regulations from the European Union and in the construction of infrastructures for the correct treatment of residues. For this reason, Catalonia is one of the communities with the best results in the management of waste in the Spanish State. Climate change, however, forces us to accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to implement a green energy-based economy. We're late and we have to run. The whole of the European Union is late and has to run. But the Spanish State still has to run more, because it's getting further. In Catalonia we are in a better position, but very far from other countries of the European Union in which we want to emmiralate. But the presses are never good. And now we have to have the ability to set up a residue planning that allows us to get to the target with knowledge and without taking a hard time. And that's why we also need to have a broader look, because we don't have to forget that the residual management infrastructure is the last trunk of the chain. And we can't fix the problems we have for the excessive generation of residues just by fixing ourselves in the infrastructure to deal with them, before there are other much more important steps and on which we need to act. So, the first action has to be to reduce the residue we produce. Minimizing as much as possible the residues we have, which are not easy people, because, among other things, it involves severe changes in the economic system and life models for citizens. But later we will have to focus policies on reducing the waste that is produced in all economic sectors and not just in the domestic sphere. Undoubtedly, selective collection, recycling and reuse of waste must be enhanced, so that the circular economy can ultimately become a real alternative to traditional production systems, which, on the other hand, are certainly more barbaric. And here is the main drawback: that we must make possible a truly strategic and profound turn in favour of reducing the residues we produce. But we remain honest, we have to manage the while, and the while also forces us to be realistic and to say things as they are. And the reality is that dismantling the plants of valorization – that is, the incinerators –, drastically reducing the contribution of rebuilding to the mouthpieces, even though it is at the time of the 35th, are very ambitious and incompatible objectives if they are not well implemented, above all with a determined and truly compromised policy. The reduction of residues and reuse, with only good intentions and good words, are not achieved. And we can't continue to increase the waste of debris in the city. Certainly, if the canon is run from Madrid, we can already go on shoes, the municipal world. If we don't have a hundred-per-cent return from this canon, the costs we're going to have to apply the joints on the scrap will be very important. And that, no doubt, will cause tensions in the municipal sphere. And who's gonna end up paying for the party? So, as I said before, they will be the citizens of our towns and cities and the industrial sector of the country. I come from a region, the Baix Camp, with one of the largest municipal waste treatment plants in Catalonia, we do a composting of the selective organic fraction and we sort the rebuy to separate the valorizable fractions. And well, at the Tarragones, there's the municipal waste incinerator and the special waste incinerator. The latter, that of special residues, is absolutely necessary and essential today for the petrochemical industry exist, but also for the automotive and hospital services, because they can operate with guarantees, since at the present time this industry has no other way to treat the residues. As a Member of the Camp de Tarragona, I must make clear the need to treat the case of Constanti's special waste incinerator separately. To PSC companies: If we don't stop the government's intention to manage the canon or produce the return of the cent_per_cent contributed, I think it will be a real disaster. And you don't have to be very conscious. That is why it is the duty of the government and all political groups to age so that their actions bring realist solutions to the conjunct of citizenship, industry and different economic sectors, with feasible and consensual alternatives. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.5.0	Thank you very much. And then, also to defend the papers presented, has the word the deputy Mònica Palacín, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, deputies, deputies, well, today, like so many others, is a time to make a call to the cock, to the resolution of conflicts. All support for people who suffer from the world's war. The management of residues and above all the final objective, zero residue, is one of the great challenges we have in the environmental field. And, therefore, it is very positive that in this House it is spoken in two motions on this subject, as was also done yesterday by the same President of the Generality at the control session. Fifteen days ago, Councilwoman Jordà commented that to face her conviction, compromise and a clear bet to improve the quality of life of people and to protect the environment. I, indeed, the European directives oblige us to legislate here. And we did, despite the conditions that often imposed on us by the Spanish State. One thing is clear: there is consensus. The paradigm must be changed in the management of residues: we must go to the path of zero residue. And I say I'm very convinced. A residue is nothing more than an inefficiency of the production and consumption model. So, if we do things right, we shouldn't have stayed. They are resources that are out of place: either unnecessarily extremised or not properly reintroduced. Therefore, some concepts: residue prevention, circular economy, reuse, repair, recycling. Talk to us. For example, we are talking about the municipalities moving towards selective door-to-door collection to ensure the maximum percentages of collection. And here, in the case of door-to-door, I mean a couple of things. The first: when it's done, we have to work as hard as we can to do it well, despite the difficulty of the change. Second, don't stick to the wheels if your government partner starts it, as it happens. And the third, do not make populism asking for its withdrawal when it began to implement to the people and cities of the country, as it also passes. Left is at the side of the green transformation. Therefore, it will be on the side of these changes, with transparency, speaking to it, working hard because they are difficult changes. We will be loyal to those who make commitments and without demagoguery. The tools for this transition are many. I start with the most important: the law of prevention and waste management and the efficient use of resources. This law will accompany the actions necessary to reach the objective proposed by the motion: the objective of zero residue and to reach neutrality in the emission of gases of winter effect. Second, a plan to shut down and dismantle the incinerators with an urgent moratorium, which we approved two months. I mean, that's not what the government invented, the government is carrying out a parliamentary mandate of this chamber, approved with consensus. Because we're convinced that the changes that come in don't fit new incinerators and that you can go planning the dismantling progressively and adiently. Third, the full route to the circular economy. The company needs to value the resources that provide natural systems and we need to integrate all materials into cyclical processes, with no toxic materials or products that are useless. We do, we have to do, between businesses, governments and social workers. And a fourth tool, taxation: the residue canon; that after the motion we will talk about. In short, we will have tools to implement a model change. And we need to rethink how we consume, how we produce, how we manage waste in another way and how we prioritize prevention, recovery and recycling of materials. This young man makes a change – and I thank Mrs Paneque's extended hand and the agreements we have reached – but there are also points that the young woman does not raise in the order she plays. Ask for some calendars that are not possible to complete. And you know, they're aware, because the department has explained it. There are some aspects that first need to be legislated. The first, I said, the law of residue. And then, with clear criteria and objectives, plan equipment and infrastructure, and implement it progressively, as decided by the mouthpiece. All the compromise, but with the necessary planning tools. Transformation is essential and urgent, we have to start doing it, and it will be done progressively and responsibly. Therefore, they cannot give support to some points per impossible calendars. The challenge is huge, and we will continue to reach consensus on this new paradigm. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.7.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.8.0	Thank you, President. Well, today the Socialist Party is presenting us with a motion on waste management. This is a motion which is technically much better, politically we consider it undesirable, and socially indefensible. And it's that, again, we find ourselves getting away from the real problems of Catalans. And do you know what they show from the Socialist Party? You are following the policy of a government of the Generalitat that fines, prohibits, overregulates and helps very little. Let's go through parts of the motion. First, you literally urge to reinforce all the actions needed to achieve the goal of reducing the waste that ends up in a landfill to ten per cent by the year 2035. But have you taken into account and foreseen the harmful implications that such an objective can have for the economy, for entrepreneurs and for workers in Catalonia? And we also wonder what the rigour and technical criterion they use to reach that figure is. And, look, in VOX we are clear that environmental sustainability has to be balanced with economic, social and cultural sustainability. Secondly, we cannot support a motion that does not take into account the demands and needs of the different economic sectors. And it is that the objective of ten_per_cent is not economically sterile and, therefore, has social and labour implications. From our Parliamentary Group in VOX, we ask precisely that these kinds of decisions be taken through negotiations with all the actors involved and that it not be in this sense, therefore, an imposition by elites who sell the new climate religion, radical ecology, and that they take note and take into account the opinion of the people who work and who rise early. And look, ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion which does not explain what additional measures will be put in place to alleviate the negative social and economic externalities arising from the proposals put forward. Do you want to improve waste management in Catalonia? For example, start by eliminating the dumping rate, as its main function is precisely to scare investment from industrial enterprises and encourage the relocation of production chains. Do they want to reduce the use of landfills? Don't just say that you want to ban the future opening of more landfills in Catalonia, because that is a toast to the sun and that is reflected in the resolution of this motion. And, for example, soon you will have the opportunity to support a proposal from our Parliamentary Group on VOX, which we have tabled against the moratorium on incinerators, because we know the problem of landfills and have proposed concrete alternatives that can help to achieve the objectives proposed at various points in this motion. In short, in order for us to have voted in favour of most of the points of this motion, it should have been based on three main pillars: the first, the alignment with the state legislation of regional legislation; the second, the balance between economic, labour and environmental sustainability; and the third, and very important, the negotiation of measures with the actors involved. And that is why we will not support this motion. And I do not want to end, in this sense, without asking the Socialist Party something, and it is that they stop colliding the ruin of Spain and Catalonia. And let us also put aside the legislative overproduction in ideological matters, and let us, once and for all, take care of the great social emergency that Catalans are experiencing in our region. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.9.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and deputies. First of all and as always, not to war. And then we'll talk about this young man who introduced us today to the Socialist Party. First of all, tell them that you haven't just convinced us, as always, because your exhibition share makes a series of statements about, for example, Girona, right? That Congresswoman Paneque very much needs to see, that she talks to us and bars different concepts. Tell us that they carry the organic fraction temporarily to Solius, because Campdora's energy recovery plant is closed. Ostres, we don't sweep things. It's to say, in any case, take Girona's organic to Solius because Solius is not just a mouthpiece, but it's also an organic treatment plant, and I assume that Congresswoman Paneque prefers the organic to recycle it and compost it that I don't go to the incinerator. But, well, I suppose it's all due, in the end, to the distillery of this young man, that it's nothing more than an attack or a disagreement with this plan of closure and dismantling of energy valorization plants, which was approved a few months ago, here in the Parliament of Catalonia. As you know, therefore, Solius can perform annual organic_thousands; it is true that he is already at the limit, but it can always be expanded. And he also knows that Solius's feeling of what he's talking about is the abocator's shutdown, in any case, not the compost treatment plant. But don't tell us... for example, don't tell the reason why the rest of Girona's rest and toilet tissue aren't taking her here, but they're taking her to Puigpalter's butcher once they've shut down the plant, the incinerator; that's to say, they're sharing it in different ways. And in the end, it's not all about defending, so incineration, like, actually, is what they do in this young man. But not to be clear, they've been sweeping up some mouthpiece's shut-down feelings to give a sense of trouble, and so they're going to say that the solution goes through to incinerate, right? And I don't think they listen to European directives, which precisely, as you know, they don't go here. In fact, at point 4 of the motion, we would vote against it, so the point proposal is to question the additional provision according to the accompanying law, which is what we approved, which gives two years to approve the sealing plan and dismantle existing incinerators. And we totally agree with the need to do and approve this plan. In point 5 we will abstain, and not because we are against the vacuum of Vacamorta – because it is very public that we agree and defend and give total support to the platform –, but because you again sweep things away from us; it is to say, they sweep us away from the fact of a firm feeling to be made, and they – that it is to be washed away and to restore Vacamorta –..., they sweep us away with the fact that the Government is making a plan of closure and buiding of abbotadors from Catalonia. I mean, don't sweep things at us. If there's a feeling, it's complexi. And on the other hand, if it's necessary to do, then, the plan of closure and buiding of abocadors of Catalonia, which is done, but don't sweep things away from us. We can't give support at this point in the way you write it. And at point 7 we will also vote against it, because what they are trying to do is condition or delay again this plan of closure and dismantling of the incinerators, linking it to what can't be done, right? , this plan, until we get the goal of reaching the de_per_cent of rebuy, and then we can implement the reduction of rebuy to the incinerators. So no. For us, what's important is that we're already closing the incinerators from now on. And if it was for us, so are the mouthpieces, because the reef will exist while those who rule let it exist. We repeat: if we make a new law of residues that you do not allow to produce any products that cannot be reused, repaired, recycled or composted, the problem will be over. And it's easy to do. And unfortunately, those who defend the incinerators so tightly... still don't know very well why. I doubt you're a stockholder, or I want to think you're not. Therefore, as they see, as Europe says, incinerators must disappear from the finalist residue treatment system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.11.0	Then, in the name of En Comú Podemos, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... "It has been practically three years since the government announced that a new law of residue would be approved. So I started my interview with Councilman Calvet, you already have to do two years and a half, and we're the same. And I think it's obvious that Catalonia has years and years and years ago that up until late to have a law of residue that is something more than a law of managing scams, and that we have a legal framework that is deeply obsolete with the reps that we have. And the problem is not only – and then I'll talk about it – that we are constantly failing to meet the objectives of recycling, reuse, emissions, etc., linked to our residue model. The problem of having a law more designed for the 1990s than for 2022 is that we are generating socio-economic conflicts linked to the management of land waste. When they are not illegal breeders awaiting closure, they are waste incineration projects in thermal plants, cement plants..., in Catalonia ; which shows that the fact of not prioritizing the reduction in origin, reuse and recycling is encouraging Catalonia to assume how to dispose of residues from which it is unable to take advantage and is unable to re-enact the economy as a whole, and that this problem will become big, again, until there is legislative intervention at the height of the folds. And, therefore, for us, the first objective of this climate action parliamentary term is that there is a law of residues of the 21st century that laws not for the back of this week or the week that you see, but that establishes the basis for a new model of residues for your own, fifteen, twenty years, and that allows us, once in a while, to achieve European objectives. We're taking a third of the residue we're generating today. And the goal is to grab less than the deu_per_cent by 2035. And, therefore, we must be able to plan these objectives and we must be able to have legal instruments that allow us to do so, because this objective should not be assumed by 31 December 2034, we should be assumed as soon as possible. And we should try to be foresights, because there will be changes in the productive economy, there will be changes in the day-to-day lives of the citizens of this country, there will be changes in the public infrastructure that we need to take over and, therefore, we must be foresights and we must be able to anticipate the reptes. And, going into the matter, what do we need to end this unsustainable situation where we have to choose between incineration and mouthing? A law of residue that is brave and that reconstructed at home the European hierarchy in the matter of residue. The first, what they taught us at school, is that the first thing we have to do is reduce the production of waste. And that, obviously, has to do with encouraging prevention policies, but it also has to do with beginning to ban a certain generation of residues, such as a sun's plastics or the things that we produce to use and to fill, to make sure that we do, is anything else that is not material, obviously, socio-sanitary. And the second question is that we need to legislate on the responsibility of residue producers, because they are dealing with the whole life cycle of residues. The second question in which we are back is in reuse, the second basic principle of the European hierarchy. Two years ago we reused a third of all packaging; today, a _sisena_part. We have a problem with the proliferation of ampoules from a plastic use that we also need to address, and we need to be able to implement a deposit, return and return system. And the third key is recycling, and it's selective collection. And I think we should be honest here. It can't be that, in the municipality where they govern one or the other, they're opposition, they're bad politics, and they're bad opposition when the door-to-door pickup is in place; it's got to be the national strategy of selective pickup for the next few years at our house. And so it has to end with bad politics and it has to be brave, because the fact that the cities don't fit into the doorway means that the municipalities of Catalonia will have to start planning pickers, incinerators, and that, therefore, we have a responsibility to the country's side. And lastly, I will just say: there are elements that we do not share with this young man, as is obvious, but this must be, yes or yes, the legislature of a new law of residue. And let's hope you don't go past the old one and that we're still able to handle it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.13.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Well, go ahead our concern about Putin's attacks, which are not just an aggression against the integrity of Ukrainian territory, but a threat to all Western societies. So all my solidarity with the Ukrainian people. On the subject we are dealing with today, the waste, the waste we generate and its management have been the subject of special attention by all administrations in recent years. The European Union, which is so important for the progress not only of Europe but also of the world's sustainability, continues to aim to increase the level of environmental protection and promote the circular economy. As shown, for example, the adoption of the latest European Parliament Directives 851 and 852, which amend and exceed the previous Directives on waste and packaging. These new rules aim to prevent waste generation and promote the reuse and recycling of waste, ensuring a more sustainable use of resources and a higher level of protection of the environment and human health. The initiative presented to us today by the Socialist Group therefore speaks precisely of progress in achieving some of these main objectives. Firstly, to reduce the amount of waste that eventually ends up in a landfill, which would be rejection, all waste that is neither recycled nor reused nor nothing at all. To date, this figure is around thirty_y_four_per_cent, and is set as an objective to be ten_per_cent in 2035. Secondly, it is proposed – and very related to the above, because, if not, we will never be able to achieve this objective – that we adopt, before June next year, the law on waste prevention and efficient use of resources in Catalonia, which allows us to achieve this objective that we have set ourselves. We certainly agree with both of them from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. We agree on their need and that they are priorities and we cannot delay any more the actions necessary to get them. But it's not that we agree today, it's that we agreed years ago. It is a debate which, in this Parliament, has taken place on numerous occasions. For years now, the current model that we have in Catalonia and that has allowed us to get here, that has been successful and that has allowed us to get here, is stagnant and we have not made any further progress. We have a model that basically focuses on what to do with the waste we generate. And we have to move on to an integral model that goes further and attacks the problem in a global way, also in the waste we generate and also throughout the manufacturing process. For this we have to bet on innovation, technology and the full capacity of our industry. But this debate, as I say, is not new. Comrade Ferro said that Councillor Calvet began his term of office by talking about this law, but it is that even long before that, long before even in this Parliament they decided to skip all the rules, because we were already talking here about the need to pursue those objectives. On September 17, as I say, they decided to tear everything apart and continue to trample on our rights. This very week we have seen, for example, how they limit our rights by not allowing us to go to the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, when they know that what they are going to say is not going to please them. And with this they not only trample on our rights, they not only trample on the rights of the deputies, but on those of the whole citizenry, on which they will apply a law that has not had all the guarantees. The process is a ballast for absolutely everything. And we said that Councillor Calvet was already talking about this waste law, but it is that, even before September 17, I remember that here with Councillor Rull we were also talking about this issue, with the deputy, in particular, Hortènsia Grau, who was already asking for a waste law for Catalonia. And I remembered what Councilman Rull said, and I looked it up in the session log in case it was my memory that confused me. No, no, But he answered something like: "A new waste law, yes, yes, we are beginning to elaborate it, but it is a complex law, and this is a special and very short legislature. That's what was already happening in 2017. Come on, they were in other things, as unfortunately we could see a few months later. And those muds, these muds. Five years after those words we remain exactly the same and have not come out of paralysis. The process beats everything, paralyzes everything. And that is why we will fight so that we can move on as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.15.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.16.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, to us, from the People's Party, it seems to us that it is a motion, generally speaking, that we can support. In fact, we have been claiming for a long time that we must work. Congressman Ferro said, he spoke and retired to the days of Councillor Calvet, but, as my predecessor pointed out now, we must go much further and go back to 2017, when Councillor Rull was in charge of the matter. And since then, then, we are paralyzed. And so this motion, which is precisely what it does, is to urge the Government of the Generalitat to put into effect this new waste law already, because it seems to me that we are, of course, even late. We also have the issue of European directives, which still have to be adapted to the rules; that is, we do not have the Catalan system adapted to these new European rules. We have instruments that are important, such as Precat and Pinfrecat, that have expired since 2020 and therefore it is urgent that we also get to work, but we cannot update these instruments if we do not have the law first. I mean, I think it's a drawer thing, but it seems like, from the government, there's no intention, or at least for the moment, to get all this going. Regarding, for example, point 4, well, because – I think it has also been commented on – this was one of the points that was precisely reflected in the tax measures law, the accompanying law to the budget. We here already stand against it, because it seems to us very daring to put a solution as definitive as dismantling and closing, when we do not know what we are going to do. I therefore believe that this is also a point on which I say that we fully agree. We, therefore, from the People's Group, are going to support all the points of this motion, waiting and trusting that we will finally get to work. And I really do not want to end this intervention without referring to something I have heard from this rostrum and that the truth has left me quite surprised. I find that comparison that you have made of what has unfortunately happened this morning, of that Russian attack on Ukraine, very blatant. The deputy of Junts compared it to the One of October. Honestly – sincerely – I think you should measure your words a little more and I think you should also have a little more memory. Because I want to remind you of Mr. Puigdemont's comrade; from his right hand, Josep Lluís Alay; from his lawyer, Mr. Gonzalo Boye, who recognized those contacts with prominent members of the Russian power, with conversations intervened by the Civil Guard where Mr. Alay acknowledged that they were trying to convince Puigdemont not to speak publicly ill of the Russian authorities; Mr. Boye referred to the Russians as his friends... Anyway, I think the compadre is obvious. I believe that you have tried to seek those support and allies for your 'processor' cause in Russia, and come here today to make those statements, sincerely, it seemed to me to be a real shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.17.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Silvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.18.0	Thank you very much. With these two minutes I'll try to give you an answer. In any case, thank the agreements that, certainly, we have been able to reach with the Republican Left and with Juntes for Catalonia, with ideas and compromises that will allow us to pull some of the points of this motion, in any case, the main expert to process the law and the two planning documents. Mr. Calatayud, from the esteem and respect that you know I have, huh? But I have to say, have you really linked the fact that energy recovery plants have been shut down to the residue canon and the state law? Home, Mr. Calatayud, you must remember that you also voted in favour of the accompanying law, right? You have to see this, because you have spoken today in a sense, but you voted against the accompanying law. Mrs. Palacín, you are... "We have a mandate, we have a mandate to complete, and that's why we wanted to do the moratorium, plan of dismantling and closing. They have two more, of mandates – I would already like me to correct so much – the one of Solius and the one of Vacamorta. They also have these two warrants. And, for the time being, with what has been presented since the Council, we have a solution in sight for eighty or a hundred years, which they already understand that it does not seem reasonable to us. Mrs Lora, I did not know that not being a Europeanist meant not even reading European directives; that is to say that it has not been read; that is that ten_per_cent does not say so by the PSC, which is said by the European directives on sucklers. And I don't know what kind of dream you thought you could have any kind of impact on PSC policies; but, wake up: that's never going to happen. And to Mr. Dani Cornellà, indeed, my first compromise is with Girona, as you have noted. That's it. Once again, all these remarks that I made in the writing and in the points of agreement of the young man, present it as a theme, that makes a little bit of command to you always work the papers, and then we can negotiate it and we can introduce it. And to finish... [[Some applause.]] Finally, you also represent gironine comarques like me. I'll love to see 'the first row of banner with the T-shirt together when you have to explain to the city of Girona that we open more mouthpieces to Girona. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.19.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half, once the 22nd item of the order of the day is solid. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the residue canon]] [[302-00098/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into the residue canon. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and has the word to expose it by the MP Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.20.0	Thank you, President. We're still talking about residue. Well, we present a motion respecting the residue chain coming from the inquiry that we made to the councilwoman, because we firmly believe that we find ourselves before a threat to our ability to regulate in the area of residues. Like Catalans and Catalans, we can lose a key instrument of self-government. It is an issue of such importance and transcendence, the impact that it has on citizens and the environment, that I also mentioned earlier yesterday, the question from our group president to President Aragonès was about the Catalan residue canon. It has been said for years, almost two decades, that an environmental tax has been introduced that puts a canon on the disposal of waste in Catalonia: a canon in the area of municipal waste, a canon in the area of industrial waste and a canon in the area of construction waste. The residual canon in Catalonia is a success, for design and for implantation. It is the ideal formula for reducing the intake and incineration of mass waste, as well as for increasing the levels of selective collection and recycling and finding financing for infrastructure and tools of improvement. Thanks to the canon on the disposal of municipal waste, a total of EUR 647 million has been allocated, for example, for the treatment of composting plants, selective harvesting subsidies, subsidies related to the organic fraction of municipal waste. The deputies and deputies who have also been or are in the municipal sphere are sure to be familiar with it. All these aids have allowed and allow the current expenditure to be released from the joints, which would have a significant impact on the public archives if they were not. That is to say, the incentive represented by the effort of the payment of the canon and being able to dispose of these aids makes the same municipalities want and can improve their management of the residues. Also the industrial waste to which we referred, to the industrial waste canon, with collected 36_million for the promotion, research, development of circular economy projects, execution of prevention projects and preparation for the reuse and recycling of industrial waste. Or the 34_million from the waste stream of construction for subsidies of recycled arids or aid for the promotion of environmental research for recycling in construction and demolition. Now we see, however, that this eine is perilable; concretely since 23 December, date on which it was approved to the Congress of the Deputies, of the Deputies, the opinion on the draft law on contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy. And until today the negotiations have not stopped in Madrid. Both in the debate at the Congress and in the Senate, our companies are defending the armor of this instrument of environmental taxation. We cannot understand how, in order to equip and homogenize all the territories of the State, Catalonia would equip itself with the rest, with all those who have not done the work. We do not oppose, in any case, the creation of a tax on the Spanish State that covers the existing needs, but it does leave out those territories that we already have a fiscal tool of our own and in operation. During the interview we made reference to the support manifest of the canon, a document able to apply ecological entities, employers, chambers of commerce, unions, political parties, etc.; a manifest that has allowed to agree from the metropolitan area until the Association of Micropopulations. Hundreds of municipalities, deputies and county councils. If this law thrives as it is now, Catalonia will have come out because it did the right thing girls. It's not just gonna lose management, it's just functioning. The new unified tax, as proposed by the State, will not maintain the finalist character, will not directly reverse the ecosystem and will not favor the circular economy. In fact, even open the door to a government putting the type to zero and simply the canon disappears. With this young man we see all those actors and we urge the Government of the Generality to continue to defend this model of pioneering environmental taxation, good and good, born of a great political consensus in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.21.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Sílvia Paneque, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.22.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, let's keep talking about residue. What time is the law? Indeed, this bill of law will enter the Senate on its own days, on its own weeks. And this law contemplates, as you say, the processing of this canon. I have to say that at the stage of the Congress this law already counted with a broad political support, also of the Basque Nationalist Party, which, as you know, in the usual economic negotiations, so they are demanding and it does not seem that it is done in the same way that they have been near the Republican Left and Together to the Congress. What is this tax pursuing, the harmonisation of this tax? The aim is to encourage policies of prevention, re-use of recycling of materials that are priorities in the hierarchy of waste treatment, as we previously mentioned, in the European directive. Why should Catalonia be interested in this harmonisation? Or, in another way, perhaps more negative, why wouldn't you be convinced that you said different taxes to Spain? First, because precisely what is meant is to improve the management of residues and to complete the objectives globally. If anything doesn't have borders, it's the air. What good will it do us here, if, then, the autonomous communities do not do it and, therefore, the emissions of gases of winter effect..., we cannot achieve the objective either. Therefore, this is a first element. The second. As you know, the European Commission has asked that this tax be established at state level; otherwise, we are subject to sanctions. And, in addition, this tax also linked to the Next Generation fund presented for the Government of the State, of which Catalonia benefits with 47_million euros. There would be a risk of losing these 47_million euros if we looked at it only from the prism and the Catalan focus. Therefore, this is a second element that I should encourage you to accept this harmony of the canon, as I said. Third. Because it could produce – and, in fact, today is happening – what is called ‘residue tourism, isn't it? the transport of waste between autonomous communities because there are differences imposed with different economic quantities. Let's see if it turns out that the model we want to defend from here is to import energy and export waste. Hey, what's up? So, therefore, we must push this harmonisation of the canon. What commitments did the Emena pursue? With this tax at the state level, the Generalitat does not lose any management skills or tickets, and precisely the message went in this direction, because the compromise was clear. But you didn't want to accept it. I wouldn't want to think that they want to turn this question into a new heavyweight heading to Catalonia, artificially. Therefore, we put this message because you have all the guarantees accompanying the negotiations, as you said, in Madrid. It's about a given tax. Therefore, the recap is for Catalonia. She managed it, too, and she found it sold out. Therefore, from the first day Catalonia can continue to manage this tax and maintain its model. You say, "And if there are nine majorities... yes, and if there are nine majorities... they ask them to work precisely because they are keeping them now, because it will no longer be just the canon. There will be other fundamental rights that may be at risk if new majorities are established in Madrid. Regulatory capacity in autonomous communities. Catalonia has a deposit box and will not lose a single euro of which it has been returned so far. Therefore, we do not lose resources or skills, with the creation of this canon. It's fake. And the proof of the side is that the message guarantees it, and you didn't want to accept it. And, as I was saying, I hope that's not on the way to becoming a new heaviness or police, as some Member of the Junts said a few days ago. I read it textually, with the seconds I'm left, the thought, because in your knowledge, above all, the people who are listening to us. Deia: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government of the Generality to treat in the Joint Committee of Economic and Fiscal Affairs mechanisms and agreements that guarantee that Catalonia will maintain the management capacity and entrances of the residue channel, which is what concerns them. Therefore, I accept the issue and there will be no problem because we can vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.23.0	Then, and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.24.0	Hello again. Well, today Republican Left presents us with a motion for the inquiry of the Past Ple, and this motion has as its object the shielding of the Catalan residue chain, and which can be described in three very simple words: regressive, inefficient and ideological. And we'll explain what the Republican Left is looking for with this young man, including Congresswoman Palacín, so he's already moved on. What they claim is to seek the approval of this chamber and to wear this motion, therefore, of a certain parliamentary solemnity so that they can make a common institutional front before the Government of Spain to stop any attempt to harmonize and unify this system that enshrines the disposal of municipal, industrial and construction waste. And we're going in parts. First, does the Catalan waste canon respond to an environmental tax measure that affects who? So it affects the usual. And the usual sole beneficiaries of the policies of the Government of the Generality, the elites and the globalist activists, which the only claim they have is the adoption and control of society. And the injured, therefore, are also the same as always: the businesses, the autonomies, the workers, the consumers and the small and medium-sized municipalities. And, according to it, it is an ineffective proposal, because they try to sell it in that the code discussed corresponds to a final fiscal measure to impact on local plans the management of resources, but in reality the only purpose it provokes is to rebuild the reversal of industrial enterprises in Catalonia and the relocation of numerous job places to other parts of our country, from Spain and also from other parts of the world. Does not the asphyxiation of Catalan families seem enough to them? And we also remember that Catalonia is not only the autonomous community of Espanya that leads the biggest tax evasion, but also, in relative terms, presents the most asphyxiating environmental taxation in the Spanish territory. And there's no more measures and no more incentives than punishing. You want to handle a better residue management? So propose incentius positius, like now, for example, tax deductions, bonuses or reduction of bureaucratic and administrative crossings. That's the path. And now it has also been said that, quite a few years ago, we saw a debate in the Congress of Deputies on the legislative harmonisation of residue management at national level – and, in this sense, I do want to ask directly, since we have it here, Councilwoman Jordan – and it is in this sense that – to see if they understand it once and for all, Councilwoman Jordan – there can be no national canon and then, for another band, we can also find ourselves with a regional canon. This is a Catalan scam, Counselor Jordan – it's a Catalan scam. And from our parliamentary group, in this sense, we ask them to end, once and for all, with this malarrangement in duplicities and is centered, once and for all, in the real problems of Catalans. And finally, to end, while you continue to talk, therefore, about the climate emergency, we will remain focused on the social emergency that the Catalans suffer from to our region, and on the only alternative to all this circus of the Government of the Generality, the social and patriotic alternative that we represent from VOX. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.25.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.26.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, let's get back to the issue of residue. Mrs Paneque, by the way of the Spanish State, which has held two years to transpose the Waste Directive 2018/851 and we are still waiting. I know you're doing it now, it's about time. But here, in the Spanish State, it's always been a long time and a bad time. As you know, therefore, this directive sets out, for all European administrations, the obligation and priority to act in order to avoid the generation of waste, to recover it and to take advantage of it. Moreover, it makes it very clear that these actions are priorities; in band, models that have limited themselves to managing them by means of end-of-canonage processing technologies. Another term that introduces this directive, which for us is very important, is the RAP, isn't it? , the producer's expanded responsibility, which we have been talking about for many years, especially ecological and left-wing movements. Because it has always been more responsible for the citizenry to pay for the canon, than not to blame who produces it. Therefore, it is good that these directives are coming at European level. That's why, maybe, the Spanish State trigates two years to apply them, because that's why it won two years more than doing absolutely nothing. This directive also introduces profound changes, especially in a model like ours, which has seen from an old mass law, which was drawn up in 1993 and amended in 2003, and which in its moment is true that it has been very advanced, but that it has been twenty years and is completely obsolete. And time is running out. Well, I'll stay, huh? I'm leaving for the five minutes. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.27.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.28.0	The Government of the Generality could also have transposed this European directive. And, in fact, say that 2019 was already a first process, right? , pre-consultation of the preliminary draft law, which even ended up presenting the preliminary memorandum. But, well, it's 2022 and you never know more. And while it is true that the Spanish Congress has already approved its law of contaminated waste and soil and that it is now about to proceed to the Senate; while here we are at the nursery or we have not even begun. This law, too, as we were talking about, establishes this tax on the treatment of residues and which does not take into account, as always, other realities that exist, such as that of Catalonia, right? That we're more than 20 years old than we already have a dog close to us. Also to say that the law of the climate change previewed that, two years after coming into force, therefore, the Government presented the law of the own waste of Catalonia. Here we are, 2022, and the only compromise that there is is what has been approved by the Climate Action Commission recently, which is beginning to deal with them urgently, and today, therefore, this motion presented to the PSC that goes in the same line of sparing a little. We defend the generality's canon for different reasons, don't we? Among others, because he is a finalist, because he helps the municipalities, because he helps the source of waste management and because he serves to encourage other models such as door-to-door, which for us, therefore, is our model and what should apply to all Catalonia and to law. So we would avoid this party that the municipalities sometimes speak here. And so we're betting on this canon. And say you have to keep pushing, that still, so, it's too small. The European average is between €100 and €60 and now we are paying just over $70. No, a little more than seventy on 2024, but now we're under it. Therefore, therefore, we need to expand this canon. And, also, at the same time that we do these policies, we would add a quarter, wouldn't we? , beyond the three that we always talk about, that's to avoid; it's to say, don't allow – it doesn't start with r, but it has incorporated r for mig. Do not allow overpacking, the production of materials that are not recycled and, obviously, involve the RAP, the expanded responsibility of the producer. It can't all be about citizenry the way it always goes. And we are very concerned about this new egalitarian imposition throughout the Spanish State, because it ignores the existence of our own, the work done in Catalonia and, once again, in our hearing, it invades the competitions of our country. And we will vote in favour of this young man, because we understand that it is necessary to confront these laws, to shield the Catalan canon and not to apply the new tax for the Spanish State. And, obviously, one more time, so, let's get to work to make this new law of Catalonia residue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.29.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.30.0	I, the truth is, if waste management isn't a real problem, I don't know very well what it's all about as a real problem. I suppose what you're trading in Castella and Lleó, that's the elimination of memory policies and feminist policies, that makes you look a lot more real. Fi. Well, with hisenda we've met. I believe that it is obvious that the State must incorporate fiscal measures into the generation of waste, but it is clear that a non-legislative from the void and must assume that there are communities, like Catalonia, that have incorporated it since then. And it seems to me that it is a discussion that is taking place, to a certain point, to absurdity. That is to say, two legislations that share objectives, that share instruments and that share Community commitments should not bring a discussion up to the limit, because we believe that it is obvious that there is a space to fit what is already being done in Catalonia, that it is the waste chain, within a standard framework that establishes taxation in the area of residues in the joint state. And it is obvious that when a person creates tax measures that already exist in some communities, not just in Catalonia, he must start from this reality and study how to fit them. We were not against the idea of the PSC, but it is the same in which space this agreement is established, but we believe that it is clear that it is necessary to ensure that an agreement is established that allows Catalonia to take no steps back in the application and management of the canon and that state legislation, therefore, contemplates and fits the laws and tax instruments already implemented from Catalonia. I insist, I think it's a discussion that shouldn't be carried to the limit. We still have time to agree, we still have time to think, but for us the canon has been a pioneer and a useful tool. Which doesn't mean it's a perfect tool. We believe that it is obvious, in the face of the debate we will have on the new legislation on waste, that the canon must also be reformed at our home. And it has to be reformed because it will have to encourage and make commitments, in terms of waste management, bigger than the ones we are taking on today. What do we like about the canon? First, the instrument's own purpose: to disincentive the intakes and incineration, which in turn gives the treatment of the end of canonada; to disincentive the practical pitjors and practices that have a higher environmental cost at the time of managing our residues. And the second thing we like is that it's a finalist tax and it's a tax that directly affects residue management, both in the joints, as in industry, as in construction, and therefore establishes a circuit of incentive or disincentive and reward at the time of managing the residue at our home. We believe that, therefore, it is an instrument that does not merely have a recaptancy function, but has a positive impact on the combination of the residue management system. According to the question, for us it is obvious – and the company of the CUP has already made some comments with respect – that it cannot only preserve it, but can modify it. It is necessary to equate it to European taxation, especially where it has to do with the canonate endings. So that we continue to disincentive at the most – and that is why we have not talked about the previous intervention – incineration and mouthing. We also need to update it on industrial and construction waste, and we need to be able to re-enact it into a country strategy that can place a new model of waste. But, we insist, our commitment and our position is that you agree, that it is to preserve the residue chain – so we are working on all institutions – and that, therefore, we do not bring this discussion until absurdity and we do not come from the generation of a new imposed step back in some communities. On the contrary, we must try to advance all and we must try to share, all, commitments and objectives that are common. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.31.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.32.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, we continue to talk about waste, in this case of the canon, a canon that has indeed been a fundamental tool for the implementation, therefore, of two basic principles that must guide the management of waste. One – the first – is ‘the polluter, pays; and another – the second – is that the most sustainable options have to be the first to be chosen: first prevent, then prepare to reuse, recycle, valorize and, ultimately, dump, exit to landfill. Since these are principles that are not in themselves economically, the spill, for example, which should be the last option, is often the most economical, since the spillage fee has helped to make these principles the guiding principles and to correct the relative cost of other options. The waste canon has been applied for 20 years in Catalonia and has actually worked, but it is also true that in the last five or seven years its effects have stagnated. There have also been other autonomous communities in Spain that have addressed this issue, so that at present we have a set of taxes of an unhomogeneous nature from which best practices should be drawn, and this has been sought in the new waste law that is currently being processed in the Courts. And here it seems that's where the problems start. Look, as is the case with the third additional provision of the Statute, one cannot pretend with a territorial law to legally bind a higher body. That can't be done. That has been explained a thousand times and in this case it is not possible. Just as when European directives are adopted we have to adapt our rules, so do the following standards. And no one can doubt that these European directives have led us to greater joint progress, which is the same thing that is now being sought with the new waste law. Of course, they can – they have the right and they can – defend their amendments, as they have already done in Congress and as they will now have time to defend themselves also in the Senate, and they can, in fact, succeed in their negotiations, judging by all the negotiations that have taken place in the past, even by the intervention of the socialist deputy. I would like to see that, in those negotiations, not some were thinking about how to keep themselves in power, nor the others were thinking about their disposals, because the truth is that I find it quite difficult to think that in this discussion, in this negotiation, the Government of the Generalitat is really thinking about what is the best possible waste law and/or even what is the best possible canon. I firmly believe, and to the examples of the past I refer, that they are only concerned with having a canon of their own, a canon of their own within small borders that makes the world of Catalans smaller and smaller. We do not want that, we want a Catalonia within a Spain open to the world and within a European project that advances strongly and in solidarity. So don't count on us to support your little ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.33.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.34.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll do it from the hatch, 'cause I'll be too short. You already know that we are against this type of instrument, that what it does is increase the fiscal pressure, which, moreover, in cases such as this one does is that it is an impact on consumers through inflation. And, therefore, we will vote against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.35.0	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.36.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, this year we are debating the law of residue, which is obviously a topic for the preservation of our planet. It is obvious that we need to move from a linear production and consumption system in which everything ends up with an accumulated residue to a circular model in which everything can be optimized and taken advantage of, and obviously focused on the ideal of zero residue. The very nature teaches us that the residue does not exist there. So, to nature it's all going from one process to another process. The concept of residue is a human concept. In order to be able to do all this, what we need to make clear is that it is a revolution, a genuine technological revolution; that it involves us all, every one of us, as long as we produce as when we consume. And in order to do that, we have to apply what we call the four "res", which means reducing, means repairing, reuse and recycling. And I'll give you an example that's very domestic, but that at least it was very good for me to remember the order. It's the Texans. We don't have to buy a few Texans every season; so cut back. If they spread out, we can stitch them up; therefore, repair. When you have already made old, you can convert them into a boss, into a forward; therefore, reuse. And finally, when these elements have already done their part, they can convert other cups into industrial wire coils and, therefore, recycle. In fact, all this process is the one that manages in an exemplary way, for example – and here in close proximity, to the district of Sant Martí – the social project "Texans for the climate, from the collection of the Texans and triatge to the reuse and recycling. We think that in order to produce a few Texan soils we need eight thousand liters of water and they get into the atmosphere for 20 kilos of CO2. At this time, every year 300 million Texans are being manufactured in the world. And do you know what this piece's recycling index is? So a sad tre_per_cent. Therefore, as Captain Enciam said on that TV3 as much as he said, "the small changes are powerful. And if a residue can't even recycle, then at least we can value it energetically. And, in this sense, I think we need to rethink how we focused incineration in this Parliament, because we cannot put in the same bag the simple residue cream with processes that are highly efficient, that are with emission control, high technology in energy value, such as incineration and gasification, and above all while we do not come to the ideal of zero residue and with the reality that we have at this time, that we continue to produce residues, especially industrial, chemical, pharmaceutical, etcetera, and that, whether we like it or not, we should manage. Therefore, reducing, repairing, reuse, recycling, valuing and the last resort will always have to be the failure to bury it in a mouthpiece. And I list five concepts that we consider to be key around waste, such as producing gas..., biogas – I forgive –, from the organic fraction of urban, industrial and agricultural waste; taking advantage of regenerated water for compatible uses and for ecological purposes; controlling the cross-border transport of waste here, because no one can pin it on us; returning to the door-to-door, urban and industrial collection, separating fractions per day, and for what it does to packaging, penalizing non-recyclables, which remain the responsibility of the manufacturers who packaged them to learn for the different products and moving from an integral system of management to a system of distillation, return and return of packaging. The one we've always done, huh? Return the glass envelope, and return cents. And it is to be able to apply all these policies that I am explaining to them and many more that we need to keep our residue chain, that it is a tool of consensus and success, that ultimately returns to who pays it, that it multiplies to who has paid this ring and that it has allowed us to place Catalonia as a referent in the residue management, with a fee, with a recycling index of forty per cent and growing, that almost doubles the index that it has at this time in the State. A state which, through the waste law, which has already been processed and approved by the Congress of Deputies, claims to rob this canon, which represents 120_million euros that go against the ability to manage the municipalities and against the rejection of the citizens, and that they are only the warning of the next spy, who is already screwing the hands of the Spanish State, which is surely that of the water canon, which represents more than 400_million euros. Socialist and common gentlemen, you have the opportunity, as the councillor said before yesterday in this same faristol, to stop this very moment in the Senate, in this case. I hope they do. I have my doubts. In any case, it is clear that the only thing that really applies to all these laws is independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.37.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Mònica Palacín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.38.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Well, these two minutes are, a little bit, to pronounce me on the exams and a couple of things. Mrs Paneque, talk about harmonising the canon. We see the experience, when the Spanish State intends to throw in front of what they say 'the harmony of what follows, has become accustomed to passing that it has finished making coffee for all. And that's when you don't respect the work done, in this case, for others, say..., or the skills that have autonomy, like it's at the head of so many years of work, so more than harmonisation at the end is gain. Next Generation. He was also talking about the Next Generation and that it is an element that has to make us evolve towards this harmony of the canon, because, if not, we can lose so many millions. Look, this is the continuous... the continuous argument of the por, of the threat, that if you don't wear it well and pass the caramel. I mean, if they touch millions of the Next Generation, I don't think we should tie them to the fete work. Look, we can't accept the slogan, because that would mean that we pull the towel in the defense of the català canon to the negotiation that is taking place at the end. Because what you haven't explained is that your question asks us to look for the formula in a negotiation after the approval of the law. He says, "No, let's leave it as we propose, let's go to the bilateral table and we'll talk about it, the formula. So no. We will fight until the last moment to get the preservation of this canon. I don't put myself as an example of GNP. Why the GNP, say, with all due respect, huh? , to the group, but eat separately. They have an economic concert and, therefore, they certainly have a lot of positions, so, well, it no longer affects them. Therefore, it is important to shield it, because if there is a change of government, and if the PSOE does not rule in Madrid, it could pass that it has passed to a type zero and, therefore, the disappearance of this one. Armoring the catalan by shielding us from this resource. To thank the transaction to the Group of Joints with whom we have reached an agreement to improve the text and put in value the pocket of the negotiating teams and groups in Madrid. Also to groups that have expressed their support. And to negationism, so, as always, nothing to say. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.39.0	Thank you very much. The debate is over, as well as the reminder that this young man's vote is going to make this midday, once the 22nd item of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[302-00095/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the planning of the 2022-2023 school year, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented to advance. She has the word, to expose her, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.40.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor... 15 days ago, when we asked the counsel with a reason for planning our own school year, we could imagine that at the end of a few days we would have this educational system that we have today for an advance of the school calendar announced for the respective president of the Generality. An advance that, as we said yesterday, therefore, has been decided unilaterally, without the dialect or agreement envisaged with the educational community, and which affects the organization and functioning of educational centres and also the reconciliation of families, for the implementation of the day compacted throughout September and which harms those families with fewer resources and which generates new inequalities between public and concerted centres, to the band, obviously, from the affectation to the sector of the leure. And precisely the course where the new educational curricula are to be deployed, a new assessment for which we understand that the set of teachers, as at least in July, will have to be trained and prepared. There's a lot of questions about how, counselor, they should be clear, and they're not. But as I have little time and there are many fears in this young man, in voldria, at least, highlight three. The first, the necessary increase of the public offer of vocational training. Any year we see how lacking, as at least, twenty thousand public places of medium degree, of higher degree, of formed cycles, which the Government must offer. And that's why we have to do a survey of sectoral and territorial training needs that hasn't been done, orientation and proper planning, also ensuring an increase in the professional and equipment to the whole territory, that hasn't been done, and badly, so we don't expect it in front of our own course. And, indeed, it is necessary to give continuing training to the student from ESO and the PFIs, but also to people who hold the title of ESO, who came out of the education system a few years ago and who want to return there, and guarantee the transition of medium to higher degree to prestige a quality training system throughout life. Secondly, the P2 free announcement generates a lot of doubts that we expect and demand to be resolved on the next few days and weeks, as we are at the gates of pre-registration. If it is intended to effectively ensure the freeness of families, the Education Department must assume one of the two thirds of the cost of the square, and two thirds with the portion that surrounds it, because any other amount less than that, someone will have to pay it. And we have to regret that until today there has been no sign of an agreement to which the assemblies, holders of the majority of public schools throughout Catalonia, can be attached, that the women's legal security, because the educational co-responsibility that the LEC says is not that one advertisement and the other assumes, means to decide jointly, and this has not been done and it is clear that this government is not practicing it either. There are no public places of Bressol school, because, as I said, if we do not guarantee universality, we will not achieve gratuity, and that is why we demand to create public places of Bressol in those territories where there is a need, obviously taking into account the demography and the objective of universality. And also ensure that those children who are left without access to a public square due to lack of supply, also have this gratuity, regardless of the title of the school, and, therefore, provide resources for these effects. And here we also see that today there are many gaps. Thirdly, and with the aim of reversing the growing inequalities and the high level of segregation in Catalonia, measures are required to do so. The next course will start with a different schedule between public and concerted centers. That's bad news that's against the direction we're aiming for. And we won't get tired of asking for a six-hour recovery at public centers. Or this, or the same day for everyone. Likewise, we propose to recover the educational support to the centres of maximum and high complexity, which have lost this own course..., this current course, we mean, thus harming those centers and the most vulnerable student. And here I come to say that we have come to a deal with the groups supporting the Government – I want to thank the Member of Parliament for the agreement – to review these resources in line with a new study that would be carried out in 2020 – so, already in the pandemic – and to develop a better plan of early school drop-out prevention centres, which, if it is true that it has a downward trend, is still far too high. We also plan to provide the necessary resources to all the centres of the Education Service of Catalonia to adequately attend to the students with specific educational support needs, which does not always pass. There is still a long way to go to make an inclusive education model to count with all the resources that are needed at school. And to ensure the same rates within the same educational area, if it fits with a new regulation in force – which, of course, we expect. And develop a shock plan to get the fooder back to secondary school and the linked aids. I ended up where I started. It is necessary to agree with the conjunction of the educational community important changes affecting the school year and its members, as well as the organization of the schools and their families. And if we trust the teachers and the schools, if we believe in a democratic education system, as many times has been repeated, if we believe in the dialog, it must be practical. Therefore, thank you, and in the second I will report and position myself according to the set of issues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.41.0	Thank you very much. So now, in the defense round of the papers presented, has first the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.42.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but begin this speech by sending a sense of hug to the whole people of Ukraine, to the Consul of Ukraine in Barcelona, to one of the Consuls of Ukraine in Barcelona, to my friend Oleks. I believe that today is a day to remember, precisely, the importance of international law, of constitutional law, of respect for the territorial integrity of states. That's why I found especially bloody and indignant and indecent the mention made by the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, the comparison he made between the attacks that the population of Ukraine is receiving today, with deaths in the streets of Ukraine, and what happened on October One. It seems absolutely indecent to me that someone can compare one thing to another. The only similar relationship that can exist between what is happening today in Ukraine and what is happening or what has happened in Catalonia and Spain as a whole is precisely the unilateral proclamation of the secession, the independence of two regions, Donetsk i Lugansk, with both unilateral referendums in precisely 2014. That and, in any case, the paronomasy relationship between the President of the so-called Council for the Republic, the Council for the Republic, Mr Puigdemont and the President, self-proclaimed President of the Council of the People's Republic of Donetsk, who is curiously called Puixilin. In any case, the resemblance will be between Puigdemont and Puixilin, but it is the only resemblance we could find between one thing and another. On the other hand, going to the motion before us..., the first one I want to do is always thank the character built on all the proposals made by the deputy Niubó, the deputy of the Socialist Party. Indeed, we consider that the motion of the motion is absolutely acceptable in all respects, because, among other things, our school must be prestigious, the teacher must be prestigious, the teacher's profession must be prestigious, the teacher's profession must be prestigious, because his pocket in public school and also in concertation is absolutely essential for the development of our society, of our children, of our culture. And from this point of view, it seems to me to be an absolutely indispensable, indispensable motion, to which we will vote in favour almost in all its points. There is some point in which we cannot vote in favour, but the total practice of the points we will vote in favour. We've submitted some papers that they consider to be acceptable. One of them... we actually made a deal with Congresswoman Niubó, who always has a very purposeful attitude and I appreciate it, because I think that this is the way of doing constructive politics, with transactional hope. I, from this point of view, therefore, only make a call to the recognition not only of the public school, but also to the import of the network of concerted schools. I believe that, in the same way that we have to strengthen a quality public school, we have to recognize the role, the task that the concerted schools make to our community and to the jointness of our country to all Spain and very concretely to Catalonia, where public-private collaboration is fundamental. There has always been a model that has been very successful, that has given great success to our school. And, therefore, the recognition of the network of concerted schools seems to be just, it seems absolutely essential to me. And from here I want to make this call to the recognition of the whole chamber to the import of the network of concerted schools. In the same way that we recognize and place in full the import of the concerted schools, we also have to put in full the import of the network of bressol schools or private nurseries that there is to the vast majority of cities and towns in Catalonia. Therefore, in one of the points of this young man, who speaks precisely of the expansion of the seats of the public schools, we will vote for it because we believe that there is no reason to vote against it, but it is true that we lack a recognition. We consider that there is a lack of this young man, and in general, of the approaches that we are accustomed to giving ourselves in this chamber on the subject of education, a more explicit recognition of the concertation and the import of private schools, which, I insist, are part of the associative fabric, of the cultural and social fabric of our barrels, of our cities, of our towns, of our towns, as well as of the rest of the main cities of Catalonia. I think it's important to put it in value, because many times the import is oblivious both of the concerted as well as of the school and the private day care centers. Therefore, more than that, Mrs Niubó, I would like to thank you for your proposal, your motion, and we will almost vote for it in your totality. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.43.0	It has the word, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.44.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... today the PSC presents us with a motion to talk about course 22-23 planning, and I'd say she's a long man, huh? , of some fourteen points, but in general in most points we have been able to find a point of agreement. Also, let's say, as in the planning of the school year, we agree with what is pointed out by the teacher training, the IOC, to age for the centres of high complexity, for students of special educational needs. And it also seems to us that it is a good proposal to be able to plan a good course, after two years, let's say, of pandemic and that choosing them is to start well planned. But there may have been a couple of points in which we didn't agree so much. But this does not mean that, let's say, for us the concern is not the same, and the government agreement between Junts and Esquerra reaffirms it above all in that it is education. In this series, above all, the petition you make of twenty thousand places, huh? , on formatious cycles. We know, therefore, the importance of the formary cycles. We know that the past course may have missed the offer. But it seems to me that the proposal you see from the department to be able to give this continuity to all the students of ESO and PFIs quarter, in order to be able, if there is this demand, to give out to this need, it seems to us that it is a good proposal, apart from advancing this pre-registration. We would say that with this we can give a good exit to this need, and above all that we are also interested in is forming these young people, and that if there is more need, as it was already done in this course, until we can arrange cycles that are already authorized. We know that this is a bet, above all, for which it is the school failure, the drop-out, that we are very interested in enhancing these formative cycles, and above all with the demand we have for the world of work, and also empowering for this dual FP, huh? I mean, we haven't met with the number, but I'd say we did. Also, on the other hand, we may not have found the point of agreement well, it would be in this..., the universal zero-three, right? We obviously..., and we know that we want to move forward, we know the importance of zero to three years, but it seems to me that this first step of the P2 would say that it is already beginning to be a big step. And, in addition, with the idea of starting by guaranteeing for all P2 infants this publicly funded square, regardless of the title of the Bressol school. It seems to me that it is a good step and that it gives this starting point already to this universalization. Also – and here we have accepted this theme – especially in course planning, effort, eh? , which will already make many schools with which it is the downgrading of routes; but also the importance, above all, of balanced distribution. But here it is important for us, to complement what is the school segregation pact, that there is this economic companionship. We are clear, therefore, that all the fans and all of them are the Education Service of Catalonia, and as it has already come out of that underfunding, so that there is this good economic support. But I would say that of all those points that we may not have found, in this young man maybe even two more would be missing for me, I seem interesting, huh? The one with Junts. It is serious that, let's say, there is also a challenge, which is the department, of how to focus this new curriculum that will be in this new course, and listening, as the counselor has always said, to the whole educational community, but above all for which we are also interested..., trying to ensure, above all, the importance in technological and scientific formations, because we want young people who..., these future vocations increase, in this sense, for the entrepreneurial and captivating country that we want. And on the other hand, another point that I would say affects the course you see, but it already affects us now, especially it's what..., the concern we have for the attack on linguistic immersion. We'd like it here, wouldn't we? , that the PSC accompany us, especially in this defense of the català. Because we are clear that we need to shield our system of education on this issue of català, and like Juntes, we, obviously, and as part of the government, will be on the side of the government to seek and agree on actions and to defend and protect català at school. Because we are very clear that going and attacking immersion is attacking social cohesion and even attacking this opportunity for equal opportunities. From Juntas, we are very clear that this issue concerns us, this assimilation and re-centralization concerns us, and we know that we want to fight there, but it also makes us clear and reaffirms that there will only be a realistic way of survival, and this, for us, is to become an independent state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.45.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Irene Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. They're presenting us with a young man, as he said, in addition, with fourteen points. To thank Congresswoman Niubó for the accepted emena and the two transactions, despite being in some positions, because the difference is obvious. We're in government, and governance means making decisions. And since the opposition we know that the paper can handle everything, but the reality, no. Therefore, a very ambitious young woman and we also think of lack of concreteness. We are pleased, however, that it is a matter of professional training; in fact, one of the four priorities that will allow us to respond to the needs of the better of this educational quality, together with the gratuitousness of the child 2, the reduction in infantile ratio 3, from twenty-five to twenty-five students throughout the country, and the deployment of the admission decree in the framework of the anti-segregation pact. Therefore, we do not understand that we have not accepted the message in point 2 of the motion, when very important significant changes are introduced in the pre-registration process, ensuring that people who are currently in the education system do not lose this continuity itinerary and that, moreover, they can follow this professional project started. Therefore, the first time that it will guarantee the step of a quarter of ESO to a middle-grade format cycle, and also, for the first time, an important step in the effectiveness of the orientation: it will be a follow-up of all those students, giving support not only to teachers, or to the mentor teams of a quarter of ESO, as it is until now, but will have diffused to all guardians of a quarter of ESO, basic FP and training and insertion programs. Therefore, we place at the fore all these tools of all the involved so that the student makes a triage adjusted to his interests, to his expectations, that they will very likely avoid a school drop-out; but also, at the same time, making an accurate analysis, as I said, of the needs of the territory in order to adjust them to all possibilities of occupation. The point of the young man is asking for a plan of infrastructures. They know perfectly well that Sabenel is already at the disposal of the infrastructure plan, the educational infrastructure director plan, deployed, more than anything else, in two large axes. Another thing is that it's not his plan, but it's the plan of who we govern. And they are instruments that currently respond to the new education needs and educational policies that allow us to sort out this whole network of educational buildings. For the first time, children's schooling 2 will be free for families who want to enrol their children in public schools, and children who cannot choose this public square, despite increasing the offer with the maximum capacity, will count on this funding of public funds, providing at the same time all the resources needed to advance towards universality from zero to three years. But with this measure that removes the economic barrier of access to children's education, that has maximum relevance not only for the educational point of view, but also for the social repercussions that may be, you don't have enough, and more so than they do is to buy the speech of the submission of the courts of Ciutadans. The debt we'd agree with that marks the accompanying law to the assumptions. They plan to recover the time and know that there is no unanimous agreement. On some occasions, you ask for consensus and on others you don't. We make it clear, we make it clear: now resources, going to inclusive school deployment and ration reduction. And he ends up using the chamber to cover up shame, because while he's talking about the Academy concert center, he's not talking about the mayor's corruption charges. Very opportunistic. We must remind you, Mrs. Niubó, that when the validation of the decree was discussed, they put the condition in itself, unless this decree is not used in a covert way to rescue the agreed upon. What's going on now, what do we have to make exceptions? Why? Why is he in the hospital? Department's commitment to study this private conflict. And so much so! But the demands are the same for everyone and I can complete them. That is why, obviously, we will vote for it, the offer to give continuity to families and to the students, but it can be understood and made clear that this faculty comes from a link of a private contract. From Education, from the Republican Left, always on the side of families and always on the side of the students. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.47.0	I, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.48.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, honourable Members, good morning. Despite the machacona insistence of the councillor d'Educació to sell us the goodness of the Catalan school presenting it as an unprecedented model of success, I told him in the previous plenary – with data I demonstrated – that nothing further from reality. The Catalan school is a mediocre educational model, unfortunately. In this same line of complaint, the Socialist Group presents us today with a list of anomalies in the Catalan education system and a number of proposals also to try to solve them. Although we have tabled a number of amendments which have not finally been accepted because of the usual sectarian nature of the SCP, as VOX is only interested in achieving the common good, and although in this motion they do not address issues which we believe are crucial in the world of education, we will vote in favour of most of the proposed points. Other points are based on assumptions that we cannot share, that we do not actually share and that will therefore not be voted in favour. Above all, those referring to LOMLOE, an organic law processed by the government of the PSOE hurry and run, without hearing the affected groups, without taking into account the opinion of the experts in the field of education, without requesting the mandatory report of the Council of State and without requesting the mandatory report also of the School Council. On this particular issue, this organic law, I remind you that VOX has filed an appeal of unconstitutionality. By the way, in this sense, in this same line, Mrs Niubó, in point 13 of your motion you are involved in an exercise of political hypocrisy in the pure Poncio Pilates style. Why? Because, on the one hand, you ask that the important changes affecting the school year, the organization of educational establishments and the organization of families, be agreed – otherwise what happened with the government's announcement of the progress of the school year –, in addition – with what you are saying, what you are proposing in point 13 – to VOX's criticism of the draft of the Education Ordinances in the past Plenary imposed by Mr. Counsellor d'Educació unilaterally. But, on the other hand, you do not complain, you do not say anything about the lack of transparency, debate and consensus of the PSOE by promulgating the LOMLOE quickly and running, without the preceptive reports I have commented on earlier. You ask to relax the criteria of access to the teacher's scholarship in exceptional circumstances, extraordinary, not to repeat, not to fall again into the problems of the disastrous management of the crisis of the covid in January, which has caused thousands of casualties of teachers who have not been replaced, lack of basic material, FFP2 masks among the teaching staff, etc.. But it's not worth keeping this statement of intent. Why do you not denounce measures announced by the Department of Education, such as demanding the C2 level of Catalan for all teachers? This and other obstacles will not encourage the teaching vocation, leaving the scholarships of teachers still emptyer than they are today, especially of some specialties such as, for example, that of mathematics. Is it proper to the essence of the PSC, its DNA, to be a crutch of separatism? It requires the recovery of the secondary catering service in the aid linked to this service, which we obviously applaud, but it does not demand the Government to pay, once and for all, the 1,141 scholarships for the course 2020-2021 that have not yet received, have not charged the baccalaureate students, many of whom without these aid have difficulty in continuing to study for their situation of family vulnerability. [[Greetings.]] They prefer to earmark, perhaps, that money to the high offices that are shared with the Government. As for the additional public places of training cycles, we believe that they should be set in exactly the same way as the supply of demand through a thorough study that analyses trends and pre-registration data, which are still to come. We also agree to increase investment, maintenance, reform, the construction of new educational establishments, but in a rational way and seeking to save investment. In other words, investment in existing infrastructure in private or concerted educational institutions should not be ruled out, because it will often be less burdensome. And I'm done. We support, as you say, the search for a solution for families, teachers, staff of the Cultural Academy of L'Hospitalet, but also of other educational centers that are in trance closing like the Safa del Masnou. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.49.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.50.0	Well, thank you, President. We share many of the PSC's proposals in this motion. Therefore, we would vote for a majority of the points, not all of them: we would abstain from the 5th point and vote against the 7th and 14th points, but we would vote for the rest of the motion. We want, however, to refer to a question which seems to us to be phonenal, which does not fall within the scope of the motion, and which, if we do not resolve favourably, can imply a difficult step backwards in our educational model and in its capacity and power to promote and effectively guarantee social inclusion and cohesion. And we are obviously speaking, as it cannot be in any other way, of the Catalan school model and the model of linguistic immersion. It seems to us that this Parliament reiterates its commitment to linguistic immersion as a language school model in our country, as long as it guarantees the full linguistic competence of all the pupils in català, in castella and in a third language, and as long as it guarantees cohesion, including it, and, obviously, avoids a segregation factor that could be absolutely negated and counterproductive: the claim to separate the pupils according to language or idiom. Therefore, let us reiterate ourselves, in this motion, in calling for the consent of the majority of this Parliament in the defence of this model. Obviously, we ask and place the PSC to withdraw and participate in this consensus and in this majority, which must be accompanied, with a sense of doubt, from our point of view, from an extensive social mobilization at national level and in all school territories in defense of this model, from this right to this school model that guarantees inclusion and fight against segregation at the linguistic level. And, therefore, we understand that this indefensibly goes so as not to abide by the feeling that they intend to force the twenty-five percent of the Spanish language to the schools, goes so as to reject this claim of dual vehiclearity of the català and the castle to our schools. And, obviously, this requires a firm position of the government, in this sense, giving all the support needed to the educational community to defend this model, which is broad consensus in our country. In this sense, remember that at these moments there is already a call for March 23 with this objective, and that it will be an opportunity for mobilization also in this sense, and to which it seems to us that it is important that we support. We also have to say that, in order to smooth out the points raised by the young woman, in order to be able to materialize them, it is necessary, inevitably and indefusibly, to reverse the details that we have been pouring since 2010 and that have not yet fully reverted. And this is even more essential after the pandemic period, in which the school has seen much more stress, and the educational community, much more tense. Now there is an abundance of resources and a reversal of the detail, going towards the six-per-cent public investment in public education; lowering rates; obviously, returning to the teacher's schedule for detail... It seems that this, together with the stability of the interiors, with sufficient and necessary professional training, the period of zero to three years, among other things, is an essential condition for fulfilling these objectives that you set in motion and advancing towards a truly inclusive school – not merely theoretically, but actually inclusive – and fighting against segregation. And so as to satisfy these objectives, so as to face these challenges with all the strength and all the necessary guarantees, obviously, call dialogue and call negotiation. It's about dialogue and negotiation, agreement with the educational community, and that's the first thing you need is to recognize it as an interlocutor and that the government, that the Education Department, has the habit and the habit – the good habit and the good habit – of dialogue, consensus, agreement with the educational community. Because, as we said yesterday at the control session, the great changes in education, the guarantee of a universal, public, free and inclusive school for everyone, cannot make without the educational community, and much less against teaching. Therefore, we also take advantage of the debate on this motion to demand democratization in educational relations and in relations between the Government and the educational community. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.51.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, I begin by saying that our group is very concerned about the erratic management that this government is doing in many areas, and still more in the field of education. A concern that we share most of the parliamentary groups, and I believe that, as the situation is, this concern is also shared by most of the educational community. Yesterday, at the control session of the Government, we remembered that, at the conference of President Aragonès, he had been committed to a dialogue with all the actors in the country to decide the Catalonia of the future. But only four days after these statements, the educational community in its conjunction called for a five-day teaching space precisely because the government refused to negotiate, once the families are also asking it to come to dialogue. It has been months since the teacher and the families are criticizing the constant improvisation of the education council, which, like the government at its side, is out of bounds. Improvisation in the application of the new school calendar applied from the Faristol and without talking to anyone, which was only the tip of the iceberg after a year of wrong and unplanned decisions. Everyone is not asking for a moratorium, because it is not clear how it will be resolved, what resources it will have and how it will last. Just listen to the school board, the unions or the parents and the seas. Improvisation also in the management of the pandemic at the schools, which has weighed on the scales of a docent body absolutely exhausted and at the limit. Improvisation also in the public places of the FP: more than a thousand students were left without place. And the telematic solution to offer the IOC has also been a mess, and I just need to remember the computer collapse during the evaluation period. There is a map of the FP in Catalonia with territorial councils, and there is obviously more public offer coming from the country. Improvisation also in the plan of universality and gratuity from zero to three. We don't know what it's gonna be like at this time, and we don't know if it's gonna create any new seats, beyond the gratuity of the current ones. And that, if it's not planned, it'll also end up feeling another chaos, as we're used to. Improvisation also, we said before, in the instructions to the schools to see how to face the injustice of the Supreme in relation to the twenty-five percent of the castle. Improvisation and lack of resources in inclusive school, without the adjunct and indispensable media in some needs that grow every year in many schools throughout Catalonia. Improvisation and contradiction in whether or not we remove educational supports in centres of maximum and high complexity, which require more government support and which do not require more resources in the current crisis context. Improvisation of the decisions announced for the Cultural Academy of the Hospital, without finding any solution for the twenty-five teachers, for the more than two hundred families. It can only be remembered that yesterday they were here, at the gates of Parliament, denouncing it another time. In short, we are very concerned about the direction of the Department of Education. And we find it opportune that the Socialist Group has presented itself, and more so in these moments that there is so much concern for the whole educational community, that it denounces these forms of doing and this lack of planning. We will support the majority, therefore, of the points of the whole movement, except for 7, because we think that the Government must rectify and open a real dialogue with the educational community and, obviously, take all actors into account. And it is clear that from our group we defend the transformation of the education system, but not from the imposition or from the wisdom. That is why we insist and we will continue to demand that you listen to everyone, because Catalonia must be governed by the dialogue and the search for consensus, all the contrary of what is being done at these times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.53.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.54.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. We, from the People's Party, will give practical support to the totality, to a ninety-five per cent of this movement. Yes, it is true that, for example, the first of the points, which is based on LOMLOE, that it is a law that we have rejected in full, so it is in which we have the most problems to be able to vote in favour. But the rest of the points seem to us to be needed, some of them are urgent, we have been demanding them for a long time, and therefore we agree. I think she was the deputy of the Junts Group for Catalonia who said that the movement is an ambitious mass. We agree, she's an ambitious young woman, but I think she's right. We need to be ambitious in education. We have to ask, because we have many shortcomings. And it can't be..., we can't afford to pass, for example, what happened with the professional training, with this practically thousand students who stayed out of it, without space, because the department didn't foresee this stream of petitions that there would be after this pandemic year that we had. Therefore, we cannot afford this lack of planning and this constant improvisation that we do from the Department of Education. We don't just say it, but even all the unions agreed, Mr. Cambray, and in fact they called him a break. They held a meeting a few days ago that it was totally fruitless, with requests not only for the topic of the calendar, that perhaps it is the one that has accelerated this vague, but that there are other petitions and other requests that you have had from the educational community for a long time that they have claimed and that the department has ignored. I insist that the detonator has been this advance, this unilateral decision by the Department of Education to advance the school calendar, with which we obviously do not agree. And, therefore, we will also vote in favour of the young person's tretze point, which speaks precisely of agreeing with the educational community's conjunction on such important changes that affect the school year, and, above all, how the centres are to be organised, how families are to be organized. I think you're in such a hurry. And, therefore, let's hope that we don't get to this five-day spot that the unions have already announced, and that we can come to an agreement in this sense. There are many points, I insist, that we fully agree, that we could have written them perfectly. If we are talking, therefore, about providing the centres with the necessary resources to be able to meet the needs of those students who have specific educational needs; on the subject, too, of the recovery of the six-hour period, which is a demand that we also have for a long time. Also move forward on the issue of universalization of zero-to-three-year schooling. It is true that he was talking about moving forward in this sense on the part of the government; it is true, but we find that it is insufficient, and therefore we need to study other measures. On the topic of ration: not only fix the ration in function..., within the same educational area, but also reduce these ration, which is also a historical demand that we carry a lot of time demanding. In short, a lot of things. The 14th point, which also talks about problems with the Cultural Academy of the Hospital of Llobregat, which yesterday, as some other group already remembered, we had them at the door protesting, talking to all the deputies. They also sent us a document. I told the deputy of Junts per Catalunya that they can't rule out the criteria, but, of course, the subject... I don't know if I'm wrong about... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Ah, of course, the problem is that you have one... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, d'Esquerra. Excuse me. [[The joker laughs.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But I'm going back to the point: you said you can't rule out the criteria that you have set with the theme of the concerted school. Clearly, perhaps the problem is this: perhaps the problem is its ideological Croatian against the concerted school, and this is causing problems not only in the case of the Culture Academy of the Hospital of Llobregat, but also in other centers that are also patenting this decision, and that is why we refused full. In short, as I said, I think she's a very good young lady, very complete. And we will give practical support to the totality of your points. And I'm going back to apologize for the mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.55.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.56.0	Yeah. Thanks to all the groups for their interventions, and especially to those who have submitted papers: the case of Ciutadans, Esquerra and Juntas and also VOX. Starting with the papers of the groups that support the government, we have already said that we have accepted the 10 and that we have made two transactions that we have been able to explain before, but we have not been able to accept others, because they were distorting our proposal. Especially with regard to vocational training, you don't..., you don't want concrete; we talk concretely about twenty-thousand new places. And, while it seems very good to us and it's an adventure that has taken place, to ensure the continuity of all the students that go from quarter of ESO, we also need to think about all those people who have the title of ESO, but who left the education system a few years ago and who would want to come back. And, therefore, this also needs to be incorporated. I mean, for what it does to the intervention that took place on the infrastructure plan, actually, here is a very important fault and some deficiencies that come from many years that would heat up..., intensify. For what he does to Ciutadans, we have accepted the second theme, which we share, in relation to the model of bressol. And, on the other hand, the first one we thought was already covered for our point 7. And, in relation to VOX, we have not been able to accept it, because they really express an educational model that is not ours: a public school subsidiary of the private one that we cannot accept; the concertation of private places in demand of families, or the preference, as they say, of Spanish nationals and legal residents, which seems to us to be a discriminatory expression and really contrary to human rights. I want to end by saying that the fight against school segregation also passes to find a solution to educational centers as is the case of the Hospitallet Culture Academy, a center in a bar with very many, very high need for schooling, that if there is this closure it will generate superratio to the rest of public centers, and with options to build a new public building to give continuity to this educational project and its teachers. In short, let us hope that, with this motion and the debate it has raised, we can contribute and put our degree of smile to improve the planning of the proper course. And, above all, that I can clarify doubts, because there are many that still plan. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.57.0	Well, thank you very much. So also, after the debate, I'm telling you that the vote on this point is going to be in this middle, a solid time on the 22nd of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the new basic education curriculum]] [[302-000101/13]] Let us now turn to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the new basic education curriculum, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. It has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Juvenal, a Latin poet of the first century, wrote, in one of his verses hexameters of Satire XIV, the following: « Maxima deveatur puero reverentia. That is, the child is owed the utmost respect, the highest reverence, the highest admiration. Much has been discussed during this legislature about the Catalan educational model. All groups have submitted questions, interpellations, motions, motions for resolutions on the various aspects of education: pedagogical and academic guiding principles, educational facilities infrastructure, ratios, school drop-out, language plan, school organization models, etc.. But, paradoxically, no one has spoken deeply of the essence of education, of its subject, that is, of the child. Only VOX, on repeated occasions, has placed its accent – yes, it has placed its accent – on the child as the protagonist of the educational process. And for that reason, despite the distraction attempts, we're very worried and today we're reemphasizing the child, huh? – boy, girl, okay? That is why we emphasize the subject, the objective of education. Because we are very concerned about the draft of the decree on the organization of basic education which the Department of Education has presented to the Government unilaterally, without consulting the educational community, in a caciquil manner, by which a model of mediocre Catalan school is to be perpetuated, as we have said repeatedly, and especially in our interpellation, which has given rise to this motion. The Government must scrupulously care for the good of the child. We must safeguard all their inalienable rights, contained in the declaration of the rights of the child, seeking their best interests as a legal asset. That is why we ask for various things. First, let the school be a space free of ideology, where ideological and political neutrality reigns, thus facilitating the appropriate intellectual, academic and affective progress of children. We also ask that the Government guarantee the freedom of parents to choose the type of training, moral and religious education they want for their children, such as the right reason and article 27.3 of the Spanish Constitution. We also ask that the Government truly protect the innocence of children, and avoid indoctrination in sexual matters in schools. We also ask that the Department of Education draw up a new draft with complete transparency and with the participation of the entire educational community, obeying logic and also article 27.5 of the Spanish Constitution. Let this draft be founded on pedagogical principles without ideological bias and in the search for human and academic excellence through effort and demand. And we also ask that the Government guarantee the right to be educated in Spanish in accordance with court rulings, as the Member of the CUP reminded us previously, and our legal, constitutional and socio-linguistic framework. Good. Juvenal used satire to criticize the corruption and decadence of Roman society, which, as you all know, succumbed in 476. In Satire XIV, he warned that the example of parents and rulers conditioned children to live according to virtue or vice. As is often the case with the classics – and Juvenal is a clear exponent of them – their denunciation also challenges us today. At present, parents delegate part of their educational responsibility to schools, which, following instructions from the Government, encourage lack of effort and demand, academic mediocrity, moral relativism and ideological and political indoctrination. Moreover, what example does the Generalitat give to children, to our children, when it turns out that Catalonia is the region of Spain with the most corruption? The consequence is that our children have less academic knowledge, more ideological burden, and therefore less critical ability to reflect rigorously. They have less resistance to adversities, as they are educated in the lack of effort and in the euphemism of «in the process of achievement, instead of talking about «suspended». Our children lead the drop-out rates across Spain and the scourge of school harassment. Let us therefore avoid the collapse of our society. And let us all remember together, please, with Juvenal: « Maxima devetur puero reverentia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.59.0	Thank you very much. Then, as no papers have been presented, to fix his position has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.60.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Well, VOX, in this proposal, it seems to me that it makes a clear presumption of guilt of the educational system – presumption of adoption, lack of neutrality, objectivity – and draws a situation that is scarcely connected to reality, marked supposedly by subjectivity to teaching, counterposition to the scientific method... Express a clear mistrust towards teachers, cloisters, educational centres, and it really seems to me a lack of respect for their professionalism. And maybe that's why they're also proposing to remove this removal of orderly decree from basic education, which... now there's no counselor, but I'd also like to see that, in this great process of participation, so... it's forgotten to involve parliamentary groups. The truth is that it wouldn't have cost a king, like at least parliamentary courtesy, if a believer in this institution and in the dialog, so we could have gotten to know this eraser. But, well, in any case, VOX requires a resume that I seek, say, excellence, and that is based on effort, on demand. And here I don't think anyone wants to disincentive neither the effort nor the demand nor the excellence, but it's about moving towards a more competitive, motivating, high-performance education, and enabling the student to face and manage a constantly changing reality. Objects, all of them, fixed for the European Union, for UNESCO, for the decade 2020-2030, and the recommendations, also, of the OECD, that they bet for a greater autonomy of centers, for inter-disciplinary co-docency and a reduction of overloaded curricula, that are not complete and that are not effective. And, therefore, a curriculum change that is more focused on how to learn, more globalized, that must ensure the acquisition of skills. And, therefore, he does not want to make knowledge disappear, but to include them in terms of abilities, encouraging the critical feeling and its application to solving problems, reptes, as do really referent countries in education such as the cases of Finland, Portugal, Estonia or Canada. Now, we know that VOX, like the People's Party, are more in favour of a curriculum model like the one that was fixed by LOMCE, more centralist, more rigid, more prescriptive, which responds to mistrust, right? ; that it denies all possibility of innovation, autonomy of the centers; that it has dispelled the frustrating repetitions, the discomfort in the classrooms, the band of the school children. Because, if one thing is to end, it is with useless repetitions, that the OECD itself has said that Spain eliminates. I mean, we don't want a resume like the control and selection tool, just like an inclusive resource and educational progress. But in any case, following on with the young man, they propose to eliminate emotional education, which we want to implement. That it is shown that it is necessary to advance in the fight against gender stereotypes, to stop, for example, many girls to bet on scientific careers and to eschew even more bretxa, and even more still in the future, and to improve in the emotional relationships of equality, respect, security, and advance in an emotional education, so necessary. And sustainability and environmental education, so they don't like them either; they prefer something that seemed vintage to me, don't they? , conservation of the environment. But in any case, it seems to me that, beyond what they write, their educational model is that of the flag, the anthem, the parental pine. Therefore, poor model, poor excellence and poor equity. Finally, like Grupo Socialistas and Unites para Avançar, we will make a political vote against this motion, if I tell you something that we can obviously share, as the fact that the institutions must, logically, preserve the best interests of the children in all spheres, or the necessary compliments of the regulations and the current feelings, as it cannot otherwise be. Now, when they speak of language, they surprise us that they speak of the right to the teaching in the castle – which is clear – but never mention the right to the teaching in Catalan. Maybe they don't believe as much as they say in bilingualism. But, in the end, we will vote against the proposal. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.61.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.62.0	Thank you, President. Well, thanks to precedents, to precedents such as Ferrer and Gardia, among others, among many others, the school in the Republic meant a radical turn, a historical change, in teaching in our nation, in our country. What did this change, this republican educational revolution in our country, mean? The first steps towards universalisation of education, because education was a right for everyone, for everyone, without exclusions. It was the first step, a fundamental step so that there was no discrimination in education between men and women, between children and children. It was a fundamental step because the universalization of the school also reached the children and so that the schooling went to all the territories of the country, in the urban territory and in the rural territory, traditionally also excluded from the teaching. And it was also a phonetic step because the school, because the Catalan school, the Republican school, was a phonetic center for dissemination and dissemination of democratic, public, freedom, fraternity and equality values. This is the school that you were carrying, that you eliminated and banned with the franchise. This is the school that you destroyed with the coup d'état franchise and repression that followed him. And this is the school we want to rebuild; this is the culture, the educational tradition we want to build and implement in our country. A school that we want to be democratic, based on critical experience, secularism, equality, equity, no form of segregation. Miri, you too want to carry the Catalan school now, you also want to destroy the Catalan school and the Catalan school. You want our society and our school to be a mark for its racism, for its masculinity, for its authoritarianism and for its social segregation. And, as we always say, today we say again, before this young man, that they will not pass, that they will find us face to face also at the schools, and that they will not pass because the school is also a territory and a space – that we can never forget –..., the Catalan school today, now and here is also a territory of struggle against fascism, of struggle against racism, of struggle against xenophobia and masculinity and against any form of inequality and segregation. For all this, we will vote not for your young lady. And we will continue to struggle for a public, universal, free and inclusive Catalan school without any form of segregation. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.63.0	Then, on behalf of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr.Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.64.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Since our parliamentary group, you have come to the point that we will not support this motion, because we are in the opposite of many of the aspects that they defend, and because, of course, many of the considerations that they say are false. They block concepts of freedom with school accommodation, putting in doubt some subsidies, in this sense – at least this is what they did in the inquiry in the plenary fifteen days ago. And we find ourselves with a young man also based on mistrust in teaching, in school, in his autonomy, and also, obviously, in innovation. Today Catalan school is a neutral school in all symbolic and formal aspects. It is a plural, diverse school, as is the conjunction of Catalan society. And, therefore, we think that's how I'm supposed to keep feeling. For another band, it is centered on the curriculum and the materials that are shared, that we must remember that they are determined by the competitions that emanate from LOMLOE, also from the LEC, and, so much from the State and the Generality. And it is clear that these laws, especially the LOMLOE, are advanced and transformative laws in the pedagogical sphere that incorporate elements necessary to improve the education of our country from the reference experiences of various European countries. It is in this context that curricular reform is being carried out in order to advance the educational transformation, by determining what students in our country learn and how they learn from an advanced and current perspective, obviously based on critical and secular experience. In this sense, we would have liked more participation, yes, on behalf of the Education Council. LOMLOE incorporates competitive teaching in all educational stages, with the different royal decrees that have been approved. And in these moments Catalonia, like the rest of the territories of the State, is carrying out the various decrees precisely in order to impart itself in a progressive way in the own courses. And yes, the contents are important, but also the competitions with a global look. If you don't understand the contents, if you don't know how to interpret them, and, in the end, use them. We just need to look at what the most advanced countries are doing in the education of our surroundings, and see how they're doing. But you, beyond the pedagogical debate, also want to use education to impose your climate change negationist agenda, your male agenda, and throw away the language theme a second time. And that's three questions we can't tolerate. The first, because climate emergence is a scientific evidence, and we just need to look at the world's rearrangement indicators: or we act and take knowledge of what is the situation we have or will not have planet B to live there. Those who are in favor of the lobbyists who want to destroy the planet to keep earning money are you. The second, because masculinism and the LGTBI-phobia kill. Male violence exists, and whether they like it or not, it's a bitch. And, therefore, emotional education, emotional education, must exist to build a society based on equality, freedom and without any type of violence. And the third question, which refers to language, because we defend linguistic immersion and català as the vehicle language of our educational system. And that doesn't mean, much less, go against the castle or go against the English. In short, we do not fall on your params to use education as a tool to divide society, to involve pedagogically back to the times of the cave, and less yet to do so from climate denial, masculinism or attack our language. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.65.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.66.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, what we want to say from our parliamentary group is that, in general, the motion of the Parliamentary VOX Group seems to be assigned to us, seems reasonable to us in many of its points, not all of them, and then I will stop at one of them, in which I seem especially important, let us say, the discrepancy between our position and that of the Parliamentary VOX Group. Obviously, we do not fall into the ridiculous, patheticity of comparing the Parliamentary Group of VOX with the Francoism or the Feixist regime, of course not. It is that it seems to me to be a truly pathetic and regrettable thing that forms part of normality in this community. But, come on, it's definitely incomprehensible. That said, Mr. Riera, of the CUP, I wanted to comment on one thing. Citar Francesc Ferrer and Guardia as an example of the Catalan school that you defend, in the sense that the school must be entirely in Catalan, is simply a historical aberration. Let me read the words that Francesc Ferrer and Guardia said when a Catalan fanatic – they are not my words, they are the words of Mr Francesc Ferrer and Guardia – told him that he had to buy the modern school in Catalan. He said: "There were those who, inspired by petty regional patriotism, proposed to me that the teaching should be given in Catalan, diminishing humanity and the world to the few thousands of inhabitants that are contained in the corner formed by the Ebro and the Pyrenees. And he called the person who told him that he had to do the Catalan classes of "the Catalan fanatic." Therefore, our position, as always, will certainly be more balanced or balanced, with all respect for the teacher Francesc Ferrer and Gardia, because we are supporters of bilingualism, but in any case, quote Francesc Ferrer and Gardia to consolidate a model of monolingualism in catalá is, if not otherwise, little precise. That said, some of the things that are said in this young man seem worrying to us. For us, emotional education is necessary in schools, it is necessary in its right terms. There's got to be a balance. That is why it is so important that there is an educational agreement in this country, that we, from Ciutadans, have been defending for many years. There must be an agreement between the big parties and the political forces together to have a truly balanced education, to find the intermediate point, the middle point, of which..., the just medium of which Aristotle spoke is for us essential. I'm saying because I've been remembering, with this young man's study, some statements from some VOX leaders. For example, in Andalusia, Mr. Francisco Serrano, who says that affective education promotes homosexuality, as if homosexuality was a disease or homosexuality was something that I wanted to eradicate. It's an authentic aberration, it's an authentic breakdown, the fact of speaking in these terms of homosexuality. And we, from our point of view, what we want to say is that precisely what it is not possible to do is to love a reality, what it is not possible to do is to condemn all those who have a certain sexual orientation – in this case, homosexual people –; to condemn them to ostracism, to condemn them to have their own identity to have their sexual preferences, to have their sexual orientation to be eternally preserved. That's why it's important that there's a balanced, reasonable, emotional education, and starting from the search for this just midpoint, I'm already defending Aristotle precisely. For us, it's fundamental. Obviously, this has to be done in the states, let's say, appropriate, but we consider that this point of the VOX motion is absolutely out of order, and, obviously, we will not support it. I wanted to make a point of which the deputy of VOX, Manuel Acosta, who seemed to me to have made a truly interesting reflection from the intellectual point of view on the theme of the concept of the right to schools. Indeed, I believe that we are making..., is tending, from the Government of the Generality and the conjunction of the autonomous governments and also from the Government of Spain, to a tendency, as the philosopher José Antonio Marina says, to expel the concept of deure from school. And it's something that I'm particularly concerned about, especially as a father of three children, and, ultimately, as a member of this chamber and you're bringing it to my group's Education Committee. I believe that we must try to re-prestigate the authority to the schools, we must re-prestigate precisely the concept of the deure, because forging from the schools the concept of the deure what we do is to generate a certain sense of irresponsibility, a lack of attention, and, ultimately, a damage to the intellectual and cultural development of our children. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that, from this chamber and the conjunction of the political forces of Spain, it is essential that an educational pact be made that is reasonable, balanced and without ideological prejudice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.67.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.68.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'm doing it from the seat, because I'm going to do it telegraphically. It is true that we can share several of the points of this motion. Some of them believe that we should not even be debating them and voting on them in this Parliament, but it is true that, as is the educational situation in Catalonia, it is necessary that we have to remember some of these points, which, I insist, seem to us to be basic and which are reflected in the rules, or even, for example, point 1, in the declaration of the rights of the child. I insist that here, given the background and circumstances, it is necessary that we debate and vote on them. But it is also true that there is some point that, to us, then, we would like, as may be the point..., the 8, in subparagraph a or letter b, in which we certainly disagree neither in the language used nor in the substance of what is intended to be said. And, therefore, on those points we are going to vote against, and on the rest of the motion, in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.69.0	All right. Thank you very much. Now the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, is spoken by Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.70.0	Thank you, President. Deputys and deputies, good morning. The cruel war rages; if not fessin the young, there wouldn't be. There's no right. Let's go back to it. VOX brings us a very similar young man that we made a complete recovery in July, and we will do the same as we did in July, which is a total recovery. And we'll do it because he's offering us a flowery boarding school, which we don't like. Fixed there: ask, for example, that the school be a free area of ideology, but, in change, at point 8 ask that emotional education or co-education be suppressed, an absolutely ideological and ideological option that stifles rights and principles. They ask that it is guaranteed the right to be educated in Spanish throughout the territory, jumping, transgressing, infringing, violating the Constitution, the Statute and the LEC, as at least – silent, that this is not a way of being striking, perhaps, also. We are voting against this VOX school model because it is the opposite of democratic values, and VOX is not fully aligned with democratic values. The model of VOX and this young man's school is the opposite of the Catalan school, which is that of diversity, inclusiveness, equity, integration, and immersion, immersion as an instrument to learn, to give opportunities to all learning Catalan, because Catalan language is the guarantee of the future of Catalan society, too. The Catalan school promotes democratic values, and therefore does not like the extreme right, which claim to violate these democratic values. When they are talking about curriculum, they are wrongly contrasting skills with the culture of effort, as if it were incompatible, precisely, with the culture of effort with skills and with the acquisition of knowledge. In fact, they indicate that they have a real view of the flowery, encyclopaedic, antiquated, and very little pedagogical disembolt. That said, taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about CV and have nothing more to say about VOX, let me express very proactively, very constructively, some of your considerations about some aspects of the CV eraser. I am sure that the allegations will be studied very well and that we will not talk and speak again, and, finally, my Lésbia, still speak again, because I firmly believe that the model of country that we have defended goes hand in hand with what it means not to reduce the hours of philosophy, the hours of technology and the hours of visual and plastic. We have passed a brutal pandemic, with the tiredness of the educational community, with the emotional wear of everyone and with the directions of the exhausted centers; with the debate of the calendar and with the attachments and complaints that there has been about philosophy, technology and visual and plastic. Peace and quiet solutions can be agreed. The very honourable president said yesterday, speaking of the calendar: "We can discuss comm. So, about the résumé, maybe we should debate about the comm as well. Is it the hours of autonomy of the centre that must be subjected, as someone has suggested, to disciplines such as technology, visual and plastic, and philosophy? Couldn't that affect this autonomy and your project work? So, experts, the department, this chamber, the educational community, let's line up, join each other and debate, find solutions to this issue. And we work, moreover, for the Catalan specificities, beyond the translated résumé of the LOMLOE of Madrid. More, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.71.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, as you've heard, the debate is a little surreal, but we'll try to put down a little sign and point out what they want to follow or spread to this far-right parliamentary group. Well, the party that we're talking about today's school curriculum, that's to say, about the education of our children, is the same one that the other day in the Congress of Deputies proposed to make even more demands to be able to access the Spanish nationality, calling for a reform of the Civil Code and also penal, a racist and xenophobic proposal, and I think I'm getting short. Or the same ones who presented a proposal not of law to suspend the visas to the city and the citizens of Morocco, Algeria, Mauritania or Tunisia. It is obvious, therefore, that a party with such ideology is not simply to have the capacity to be able to build a good educational model for our country. It is obvious that they seek to return at the same time greyer to use the school as a space or a tool of castellanization or indoctrination, with a hierarchical education model, segregator, partial, generator of gender inequality, perpetuator of social class differences, among many others. They steal an example? So I will not give them one of the most recent: in the motion discussed earlier, you presented clearly racist statements, they were demanded to allocate public funds to guarantee the preference of Spanish nationals and legal residents before the rest of the children– children–, deputies and deputies– children. [[Some applause]] - No, no, no, Will you tell me this isn't a hate crime? I think so. For another band, we believe that they continue in the same way as always, seeking to focus on a speech that only seeks to generate hatred, rebuff and por. And you know what? We do not have them; we do not have them, Members of the extreme right. What, then, can we expect from a party that is against social inclusion, the struggle against school segregation, the equality of opportunities between students, regardless of their income? Where you somehow don't see anything else I don't hate, we want and recognize the social and cultural diversity of this country. You want first and second citizens; we want equality and fraternity. You present papers to generate discrimination between children; we defend the free P2 for all families. You criticize sexual and emotional education at schools; we fund menstrual copies for schools and institutes. In short, you are the past, and we are the present and the future. I would like to reiterate to all groups in the chamber that, please, they are coherent and, above all, they are responsible, that with the extreme right there is no play, that with the extreme right there is no talk: they fight it and wing it. And, hearing the speeches of some of the deputies, I was really worried. And finally, and bearing in mind that on the 21st, the last day, was International Mother Language Day, I would like to end with a sentence of my mother tongue, which is Arabic, which sums up, in a way, what we have seen in the different interventions: yatimum ramy alhijarat faqat ealaa alshajarat alati biha'akbar qadr min althimar – only stones are thrown into the tree that bears the most fruit. And that's what happens to them on the extreme right and to whom they accompany him in his speech. The Catalan school is not touched. Leave her a stick, please. [[Some applause.]] And, finally, I would also like to respond to Niubó, a member of the Socialist Party. You said... or you talked about the school curriculum. I want to say that the curriculum is an educational material, and obviously, it doesn't have to be agreed with political parties, but it has to be discussed with the educational community. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.73.0	Thank you very much. So, over with the debate, we'll also vote for this young man once we're done with the next one. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Winter Olympic Games]] [[302-00096/13]] The twenty-two on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the Winter Olympic Games, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Common We can. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.74.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. With this young man, we want the Parliament to be a position on which for us there are three major inconsistencies in the Winter Olympics project. But above all, what we intend is to put on the table alternatives for the territorial development of the Pyrenees from a diagnostic, a definition of the problem that I think is very shared by most groups of this chamber. I'm starting with the incongruences. The first and most obvious, the environment. Last week more than one hundred and fifty scientists presented a manifest full of empirical evidence showing that, in a climate change context like today, the Winter Olympic Games project is unsustainable. To make the future of the Pyrenees depend on a strategic bet based on the snow in the current climate change context is not only incongruent, but, in our view, it is a serious strategic error. You will know whether you are voting today listening to scientific evidence or voting for certain economic interests. Second incongruity, socio-economics. The reality we have today in Pirinius is a direct consequence of public disinvestment over decades and an economic model based on tourism monoculture. A model that has generated job insecurity, a model that has had a dramatic impact on access to housing and is expelling many young people from this territory. The answer to this reality we believe is not the Winter Olympics. The answer to this reality cannot be more than the same, and the Olympic Games are that, more than the same. And, as Einstein said, if you want different results, do different things. And the third incongruity, the democracy. We can't fill our mouths talking about the democratic quality of a popular consultation and that today we don't know the details of the project and have all the information available, and, above all, there is a tendency to exclude from the vote some places – the Berguedà, the Ripollès and the Solsonès – that all of us recognize that they are places that will be impacted by the Winter Olympics Games, and we say: "Participate, yes; but vote, no. We don't think that's appropriate. That said, and as I said, I think many of the groups share the diagnosis of what is going on in the Pyrenees. In fact, just a week ago the syndicate of Aran, the Lady Vergés, compares in this chamber and shares with us this reality, which, as I said, has much to do with public disinvestment for decades and with a general sense of abandonment by the public authorities. And because we believe that the Olympic Games are not the answer to these problems, but also because we believe that there are alternatives, we plant them in this motion two great lines of action. For a band, hard to term urgently a truly strategic intervention, planned, sufficiently resourced, to advance towards a new model of territorial development at the conjunction of Pirineu. And this means, among other things: running the necessary and pending infrastructure, digitizing, diversifying the economy, responding to housing problems, specific policies for the youth of this territory, courageous measures against depopulation. Not all of this will be achieved with the Winter Olympics. And, for another band, to make it possible for all this to happen: call us mechanisms of financing, of territorial redistribution of financing. Look, I understand that the 1,000_million euros that the IOC puts on the table are very juicy, especially considering where we come from and what is the reversal of the Generality's assumption to the Pirinian regions, but they are pa for today and win for tomorrow. We offer structural alternatives to them. For example, the tax that we have granted to the Government on ultra-processed foods, which reverted to the sustainable primary sector; the municipalization of hydroelectric power stations; the creation of a fund for the study for the young people of these territories, and, above all, the impulse for us to have mechanisms so favourable to taxation for these territories and for its inhabitants as to redistribution of funding in the area of territorial justice. Pirinius only has the u percent of the country's population, but it is offering us all a whole series of environmental, ecological and landscape services from which we all benefit, and that, therefore, it feels that we pay for them among all. I believe that the law of the mountain can be an opportunity to move forward in this direction, but once again, the government is late: it is a law that began to gestation in 2011, and we are at 2022 and the law has not reached this Parliament. Perhaps if all the pleas were to do the work he was playing right now, we wouldn't have to come home to the highest bidder at the last hour to save a territorial reality that has long been known to us all to pour and that the main evil he suffers is that of historical abandonment by the public authorities. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.75.0	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, in the defence of the papers presented, the first word is Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.76.0	Thank you, President. Members... Well, it seems to us that this young man is part of a departure error, that he is concretely pointing out a problem that is obvious, the disinvestment, the strong public disinvestment, the strong territorial imbalance that we suffer in these and other districts of Catalonia, but they do not like the possible solutions. Here, when it comes to alternatives... well, it's one way to say that you don't want Olympic Games or you don't want certain growth patterns. Obviously, ideologically it's legitimate, but the results are obvious. I would like to read the text of the message that we wanted to make at the first point, which has been rejected, and which I said... We have asked... "A large part of the Catalan territory suffers from a demographic, economic and social situation which, together with the lack of infrastructure and services in these territories, makes it urgent for the joint public administration to act in coordination, addressing all the necessary resources and designing a strategy of short-term, medium- and long-term territorial development, realistic, ambitious and able to place Catalonia as a loyal, valued and trusted partner in Spain, Europe and the world. I understand that all this, therefore, if a lord is a processor, he puts his hair at the top, or that, if a lord is a Stalinist of pages, he puts his hair at the top, or that, if a lord is of a left-wing model that, on one side, makes him nyic-nyic the growth and, on the other side, makes him the racer to separatism, he also puts his hair at the top, but the facts are who they are. Olympic games are not the panacea or the solution to all the problems in Catalonia, but they are an opportunity. And don't want some Olympic games, especially when you don't have a better alternative, because all this – and you know it, Mr. President – it's bla-bla, it seems to me to be too arrogant, taking into account the situation in which we are. I'll be forgiven, but the Olympic Fóbia Games, as well as the Fóbia Tourism, which also permeates this young man... And obviously it's not ideal a monoculture, a dependence on tourism, but, listen, it's still lucky that these districts have tourism. Maybe we don't have to go against tourism, maybe we have to stimulate other things; but, let's face it, let's not kill one chicken before we have created the other. So, as I said, the Olympic Games Fóbia, tourismfóbia, do not fail to be a quite pathetic form of Catalanophobia. Someday many lords of this chamber will have to decide which one is their priority: whether the process or Catalonia, whether its ideological agenda, or that actually Catalonia comes out of the underworld. Focusing a little on the subject of the young lady, I'm telling her that, even though they have rejected ours – we think that much more constructive, loyal and realistic – was at point 1, surely we would vote for it. Because we also want to..., or so on, we share the concern that these parts of the territory are being used for resources and cease to be the firecracker. It just seems to us that, of course, the way you plant it, you punch them in the Olympic Games and you plant a 9-N regional, we won't solve it. We know hard, I insist, that all these things have passed before the problem, which will prevent us from voting for many points of this young man, and in other things we will have to abstain. And I would like to highlight – and I would like to highlight – a point that seems to us to be the best part of the movement, which is when you ask "to create a new foundation of study help for professional training cycles that will have to be fully operational for the registrations of course 22-23 and that incorporates help to mobility for the students who have to reside outside their home by reason of the studies they are attending, "to study the possibility of expanding this foundation to university studies by course 23-24... To our surprise, this point, which seems to us the best of the movement, is traded with Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia. I mean, there's hope of trading something that's worth it with everyone. So, man, since we don't get the rings to deal with who we are, we don't make sanitary cords when it looks like one thing is right, because our priority is the welfare and growth of Catalonia and the whole territory, we would pray, please, that all the other groups will do the same one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.77.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature, the Member of Parliament, Dolors Sabater, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.78.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. MPs, MPs, councillors... well, one more day in this chamber we'll talk about this disarray of the Winter Olympics. And, before I begin, I send a greeting and all the support to so many people who have been mobilising and fighting, day by day, to save the life of the Pyrenees, this territory so esteemed but so ill-treated at the same time. All support, recognition and support to your territorial defense commitment. We have, in this country, the struggles that the people make to save the territory from the urps of speculation. So yes, one more day we'll talk again in this Parliament about this disruption of the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees. And we do this to reiterate in four key ideas. The first, that the Pyrenees has some structural needs that many years ago suffer from abandonment of all administrations, you need to attend urgently; that it needs to develop this integral plan that addresses depopulation, economic diversification and the settlement mechanisms of the population, but it is not precisely with the excuse of the Winter Games of 2030 that it needs to do so, but totally independently. It is not a question of putting four points to a young woman, but of having a full path of consensus, of course, of consensus in the territory and for the territory. Why don't we have some Olympic Games, when what it takes is that this plan is developed, this diversification plan, and it's done from the Pyrenees and to the Pyrenees. According to him, the model of Winter Games in full climate change and in the midst of a post-cover crisis is an authentic irresponsible one for the planet, for the dignity and sustainability of the lives of working classes and for the sovereignty of the Catalan countries, as they do not stop saying, you see yourself qualified as a world player, but above all of our peoples and vile people – and I refer to this scientific manifesto signed by more than one hundred and fifty experts to whom he referred earlier than the Member of Parliament. That they're fooling us with the information there is. There's a lot of opacity. You're fooling us with information. It's opaque, very opaque, and it's not complete with the most basic duty of transparency. We have made a type of demand for reports, documentation, and in the spaces of participation, at the meetings we have held with you, counsel, here to the plenary, in questions of control to the councillor and president, in meetings of work, in resolutions to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, but we serve nothing. And it's the journalistic research task that marks the pulse of information, and for us it's still pending – and we've done it with questions – knowing how much money has been spent so far on this candidacy, how much money with the reports, who's done the reports..., all these questions that we've already entered and that remain unanswered. And four: the compromise of the consultation, which is already announcing it without the municipalities and the veins and veins of the Pyrenees having all the information at their fingertips. Because in order to be able to decide one must be able to be informed, deliberate and decide. And that information isn't there. When will this consultation take place? What day? What programming will have the territory to know you have all the information? And I can no longer say this trap of exclosure 'in Solsonès, the Ripollès and the Berguedà, who are claiming to be included in the consultation. For this reason, we, with these four premises, and accruing the motion to Comú Pode – and also accrediting the acceptance of some points, while some have not been admitted and some votes must be abstained or against, but it will allow us to vote in favour of a majority of votes – only to comment that some of the solutions that you propose are not structural enough, such as this of the grounds for collecting sustainable holdings in the primary sector, which we do not think will come from an imposition of ultra-processed foods, which should be sustained for themselves. Or that, for example, natural parks need a set of uses, and not that we end up putting back natural parks to serve another time of this excess tourism in the economy of the area. We believe that this young man, we would say, is far from where we really need to get on with the issue of no to the Olympic Games and the development of the plane for the Pyrenees, but welcome those agreements, that consensus. And they'll find us on the side of the territory to keep fighting to end these Olympic Games. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.79.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.80.0	Well, thank you very much, President. In the first place, we want to thank the Catalonian compañeros in Comú, and the deputy parés in particular, who put on the table this motion on the Olympic Games, on the Pyrenees. A motion that we consider reasonable and with a broad view on the debate that we must be able to respect; that is done, we believe, from the concern for the territory for those shortcomings that exist, and not to look to get some electoral results on this debate. And we think it's like doing the debate in this sense, thinking about the needs, the shortcomings of the territory, of its people, of the Pyrenees, that unfortunately and badly there are many and they are historical, and therefore, as we put ourselves to work to reverse this situation, which, as the honourable Member has said, we believe we all agree and we have to do. There are three approaches we want to make to the Olympic Games candidacy project, and also to the development of the regions of the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran. That we don't think they're incongruous, but they think they're close, and now they're explaining to us. In the first place, and on economic sustainability, we must warn about a false dilemma, the one that says or Games or transformation. Before that, our proposal is transformation with the Games as possible opportunity, as possible transformative lever. The Jocs proposal, if the territory so decides – after I have already mentioned it – must leave an arrival of greater territorial balance, better communication and connectivity of the regions of the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran. And that depends on us, on how we articulate this proposal. And, therefore, between that false dilemma that gave them between Games or productive transformation, for us it is transformation with Games as possible opportunity. But, and here is also the key of all folded – here is the key of all folded – the territorial transformation is whether or not, there are Games or not. And that's what the Republican Left Parliamentary Group is buying with, that's what the Government of the Generality is buying with. And that's why the mountain law, which is incorporated into the standard plan and which is referred to in the motion, or the bill of taxes on processed foods, which was also mentioned before. For this reason the strategic plan of the Pyrenees, so that it can minimize the dependence of tourism, so that it can diversify the economy, so that it can make possible measures and overcome the lacks in the field of infrastructures: measures in the framework of housing, measures to promote the repopulation, to fix the territory the population – especially the young ones – or help in the field of training. All this is collected in the government plan. This is the compromise of this government and of the group that I'm now holding. Also other measures, such as the deployment of the Upper Pirinian Veigher and the Aran, a compromise of this Government to bring the Administration closer to the citizenry, to make it more useful. And that's why we've incorporated a theme into this. A _second approach: that of environmental sustainability in a climate crisis context. Here is another false dilemma: those who want to counter the Catalonia of yes with the Catalonia of no, and thus present that environmental measures are always an obstacle. We think it's fake, too. It's a wrong view, because environmental criteria don't have to be an obstacle to not doing anything, but they have to be a condition, they have to be a requirement to do what we want to do. I, respect the project of Jocs, says the same IOC – and we say it to ourselves –: "There are no olympias if there is no strict compliment and strict of the objectives of sustainable development. And that means we have to be able to combine sport and sustainability. And if it's not possible to conjugate this, we won't be able to find it in this project, but we think we're capable of doing it. And third, about consensus and territorial participation, a point that we believe is a mark of republicanism – and we have said it many times and we follow it –: there will only be Olympic Games, candidacy for the year 2030, if the people of the Aran and the people of the High Pyrenees want it, if they decide so. That is why we have consulted from this Parliament, so we said that we would do it and that we are working to be able to do it. And here we also need to speak clearly. The main protagonist is the citizenship of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. Therefore, we believe that it is those who must be able to decide directly. And we will not contribute to the fact that the citizenship of the High Pyrenees and the Aran continues to feel threatened, and we will not therefore contribute to diluting its voice. We think they have to have the last word about whether or not these Games should be done. And, of course, we are aware that this impact goes far beyond the coves of the Veg of the High Pirine and the Aran. And that is why we must be able to ensure that the citizens of the Prepirinian communities are escorted, as participants, have all the information, can participate in the process and can also be escorted. And that is why we need to seek the consensus – and so we have given it – needed to make this possible. I'm done. The challenge is not to put up with Olympic Games that can become an opportunity if we do well, but to ensure that we have them in the service of this territorial transformation, and, above all, to ensure that this social, economic, feminist, green and democratic transformation to the Pyrenees is done, as it is to the rest of the territories and the rest of Catalonia, there are Games or not. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.81.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.82.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Well, I know one of the four cats who live in the Pyrenees, which was said in this chamber; one of the 74,000 inhabitants of the Upper Pyrenees and Aran, and with great pride. Yes, we certainly don't get to the u percent of the population in the twenty per cent of the territory of Catalonia. This is a young man who, with the excuse of the Olympic Games, speaks of the Pyrenees. That's right, that's right: with the excuse of the Olympic Games, we face the problems and solutions that the Pyreneans need. There has been more talk of Pirinius in the last six months than in the last thirty years. Look, it's not easy people, living in the Pyrenees, and that's why we're so small, huh? Long distances, complicated orography, the weather... but above all because there are no working opportunities to establish us at our home. But let's not be wrong, huh? This isn't tourism's fault. My godmother, at the same time, left Tahús, a village 1,500_metres high, to go minyona to Barcelona for lack of opportunities to the Pyrenees. There was no hotel square in Tahús or the whole valley. Tahús went from 268 inhabitants in 1920 to two. Now there are two houses of rural tourism, which have allowed a village that had abandoned itself to return to having a full life. Tourism hasn't washed the Pyrenees. Tourism is a source of entry and opportunity; we do not destroy it. How to ski: give alpine ski resorts, Nordic set; 382_million euros that are generated each year, and 3,130 work places. Extrapolant-ho, would be with 68,000 places of work in the city of Barcelona. At the organizational level, some Winter Games aren't going to be exceptional, huh? For us. They accolade about three thousand sportsmen of noranta paysos in about fifteen trials. Do you really think we need to build more hotels and more vile Olympics to locate three thousand sportsmen in various of your own? Only this fever we have joined 1,200 sportsmen in the Marxa Beret and 250 in the European mountain skiing in Boí-Taüll, without setting up any more. And that's what we do every winter. We can't build a ski infrastructure, a pavilion, a hotel square. We've got everything. And what we don't have..., we'll do it, if that's what the COI tells us. But at brand level, the impact is enormous. This global impact of the Pirineu brand will not only benefit skiing and tourism: it benefits small craft formatting; it benefits the branch of the brown cow; it benefits businesses that, with connectivity, can install anywhere in Pirineu; it benefits the autonomy that can work in a small village at 1,200_metres. And we don't forget to support basic sports, training and exhibition sports. This will leave an arrival to all the ski slopes and all the Pirinaeus communities – all of them. The Junts for Catalonia are those of Catalonia of yes: from yes to opportunities and from yes to Pirineu. We are the INEFC; the CAP de Pont de Suert; the CAP de la Seu; the Transborder Hospital de Cerdanya, the Tres Ponts tunnel, the Conservatorio de Música dels Pirineus, the natural parks, the Geopark. We are the ones who are working to bring the nursing studies to the Pyrenees; the Comiols; the new hospital of the Seu d'Urgell; the expansion of the Pallars Hospital; the connectivity to everything; the technological hub to the Pyrenees; the tariff integration; the deployment of the old. We have projects, we fight them and we work for the opportunities of the Pyrenees. And these games can be the great accelerator of all these projects. And we'll get to these projects, but it's that with the Games we'll get there before. At the Seu d'Urgell, we have an example: the Olympic Park of the Secret, arrived from the Games of 92, an energetically sustainable facility that complements sports activities of the elite, world-class competitions, tourism, an urban park and energy generation. One of our main economic engines. Sure we have a lot of faces, huh? The climate change is one. Temperatures will rise between one and two degrees and a half, and the share of the snow may rise by two-hundred_metres, but no expert predictions say we will not have a snowfall in the Pyrenees, in Baqueira or in the Molina, for example, in 2030. It's going to take a few days, right, but nobody tells us it's going to take less snow. Look, we're the first ones interested in keeping the treasure of our surroundings. We greatly appreciate our Pirinaeus, and our only priority is its prosperity. And we defend the Games because we believe in opportunities that can bring us without compromising the landscape or the primary sector. And, yes, it's true, the Games we have to ask from the Spanish Olympic Committee. It's the price of not being an independent country yet, but it is, and sooner than they think. And then, at the negotiating table, and with an international rapporteur, one of the points on the agenda will be these Games. Some games that, from the start, are already cross-border, because there will be trials at the Alps, there will be trials in Sarajevo, there will be trials at the Aragó... There are many European or global projects that we have to ask for away from the Spanish Government. What do we do? We're giving up all of it? We're giving up the Next Generation? Or did we just give up the great project that benefits the Pyrenees? I, finally, let the pyrenencs decide, in a weighted way, according to the affects to the different territories. That is why we have approved this proposal, in order to agree, with joint meetings and local councils, including Bergedà, Ripollès – Mr Munell – and Solsonès in the participatory process. Deia Seneca that no wind is good if you don't know where you're going. We're clear where we want to go, and we're clear that we can't let the Olympic Games get past it. Trust the Pyreneans. We did 92 at Seu and we still enjoy it. We'll know, all the cherry trees, 2030. It will be the opportunity to accelerate all projects to improve the quality of life and our opportunities. We don't want to give up. You don't rob us of the opportunity to speed up the changes that the Pyrenees need. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.83.0	After the defenses of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.84.0	Thank you, President. With the title of « Winter Olympic Games, this young man insists on linking the problem that affects the Pyrenees territories, which is a problem that also affects part of rural Catalonia and the mountains..., insists on linking it, I say, with the Olympic Games. It's a fake bond. It is a confusion that, in our view, even hinders the design and application of policies for the development of these territories in the mean time. Look, it took a long time to recognize the shortcomings we have in the Pyrenees, such as those in rural and mountain areas, and we managed to put this topic on the table. Now we're at a point where the debate of the territorial model emerges forcefully. And in this debate, development, sustainability, economic diversification, infrastructure, there's a big deal, and circumstantially, right now, so are the Olympic Games. But let us not deceive ourselves: they do not come to fill the lack of public policies that have happened to the Pyrenees, nor come to solve the problems, nor come to pillage them. We would like to share that the Winter Games are an opportunity for active participation of the Pyrenees on the basis of the sustainability and profit of the resources and sports infrastructure that already exist. The Winter Olympics are an elusive opportunity for the Pyrenees, and they would require, as counsel, strong public leadership and consensus. This young man, as we say, was little of the Winter Olympics. Request documentation to the Government – our group has also registered a demand in this sense – and included it from certain areas that have remained excluded from the consultation announced by the Government. But the majority of the young man presents a varied list of territorial proposals, which we share, in great detail; some of which are legislative, such as the mountain law that we have already asked for months ago in this House that is active, and which with the transaction that they have reached with the government that they are doing is to rip it up until the end of the legislature. It also contains measures of territorial redistribution of public finance, talks about the reversal of hydropower... ; questions that we can all subscribe to, but that do not go into the detail of the enormous complexity of each case to maintain the IBICEs and, therefore, to the joints or the management that is decided. They talk about ultra-processed food taxes, student mobility. There are already aids in this sense, but so too, we are satisfied that it is planned to expand vocational training. They're points that we subscribe to, as we say, but they don't go into the questions. As in the case of participatory redevelopment of a territorial development plan: they talk about infrastructure, economic diversification, housing, redevelopment measures, natural parks... We insist, we can subscribe them, but they do not go into the questions. And, finally, it was not that we left any element of this compendium, added by transaction there is the deployment of the departments of the Generality to the High Pyrenees, some departments of the Generality that were already deployed for the tripartite government, that worked very well and that were shut down by the President but that carry two years announcing that they would be restored. The proposals are declaratory, they're a little thick brush that should open interesting debates and come to a conclusion. We ask to advance, to advance and to deepen, because, if not, we are doing what we say in the north-west to pass the song, eh? : very moving appearance, many questions, but we do not end up deepening into anything. We cannot continue with empty generalism and with the exhaustive lists of everything that is needed in the Pyrenees. We must begin to apply comprehensive policies before the complexity and depth of the problems we have. We ask that it is not dealing with the problems of the Pyrenees as a topical issue and as an isolated issue, and much less since paternalism. We will vote mostly in favour of the motion for its declared character. We were pleased that it was already action, but, well, we would vote for most of the points in favour, except those that refer to the Olympic Games, because the territory has already spoken through the representatives and we ask the government to take decisions and bring forward the candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.85.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word the deputy Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.86.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. You, gentlemen of Podemos, raise a motion on the candidacy of the Winter Olympics, and less evil that you do not lead it, because, come on, it is not that we do not win it, it is that we do not present it. You communists, those of no to everything, pose that the games do not solve the problems of the area. And you, who rule in Spain and are also part of the government in Catalonia, are responsible for these problems. They plan a series of measures that have nothing to do with the games, that can be carried out or not – those measures – regardless of the candidacy of the celebration of the games, such as providing resources to the area, diversifying the economy and a series of proposals communist brand of the house that would just sink further into the area, to the work and to the workers. Olympic games, ladies and gentlemen, are a unique opportunity to promote sport in a territory, an opportunity to update infrastructure for the benefit of all, a good way to project the image of our nation and our cities, and a reality of fostering the economy and jobs. Curious or not, but in his motion there are no references to work, sport, collaboration between regions, unity or coexistence between Spaniards, much of En Comú Puem. The Spanish Pyrenees had never been so close to a winter Olympics. The 2030 candidacy is a landmark dreamt by many inhabitants, as has been manifested in this chamber, of these mountain territories. But projects of this magnitude require magnitude, and only succeed when they have the competition of all: administrations, sports federations and citizenship, all united. To win the candidacy, unanimous support is required, without fissures, and here is where this motion, and in general the Government of Catalonia, fails. Neither you nor the Government have a decision made; you are more in fighting us, in dividing us with consultations and in opening up gaps in the territory that only harm the project. In relation to the necessary collaboration with other regions of Spain, you do what you do is impose your prepotence, fight with Aragon, suspend meetings and damage the project. Neither this motion nor the separatist Government nor the Government of Spain understand that it is a national project of Spain, which, as they have said in this chamber, has to rotate the Spanish Olympic Committee, with its majesty the king of Spain at the head. And that's the only way we'll get the Olympic Winter Games project, as we got the Barcelona Olympics in 1992. As our Spanish agenda points out, we must look for the common good, and this candidacy can pursue this end and we must take advantage of it. Communists, socialists and separatists are going to charge the candidacy of winter games of 2030 playing, playing with the Catalans, playing with the illusion of many and the opportunity of growth of all, playing with the access to the winter sport of many children and of many very young, playing with the improvement of the national 230 – the road from Lleida to the Vall d'Aran–, the C-28, that port of Bonaigua that often collapses in winter due to the risk of alludes. Or projects such as the Xerallo tunnel or the abandonment of the eix Pirinenc, which would communicate the Pallars Jussà with the Alta Ribagorça. Playing with everyone's money, with corruption: irregularities have already emerged in contracts worth 400,000_euros. Playing with the creation of thousands of jobs or the maintenance of these; but that doesn't matter to you, because you already share the pie of budgets. And playing with the real possibility, for example, of having fiber optics throughout the territory; this circumstance can be used to make reality, and, of course, to take advantage of some new construction of Olympic villas as social housing. To end empty Catalonia, you will soon end up turning it into abandoned Catalonia. And, of course, they will give the citizens one more reason for them to come Olympicly from you and continue to bet on training like ours, which faces real problems with real solutions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.87.0	Finally, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.88.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, without a precedent, I must admit that Mr Fàbrega, the Member of Junts, has given you a good review. He has given them a good review explaining precisely the needs of the territory and what the territory wants, and he is told by someone who lives it in the first person. And I think you should at least listen. And, instead of making those gestures by making fun of it, you should take it seriously, because the issue is serious and it's serious. I already understand that it costs you, because you all at first say no. Not at all: not to the European Medicines Agency, not to the extension of the airport, not to the winter Olympics. And they don't care what that means, and they come here to make fun of it; I think it's been the best example they could give us today of how this matter is being taken. And the pity of all this is that Republican Left seems to be playing the game for them too, along with the CUP. And it's a real shame. It is a real pity, because, yes, it is true that this is not going to solve all the problems that the territory has, it is true, but surely it can contribute to improving the and very much – and very much –: the impact that this can have not only for the brand Pirineos, that also, but it is that it will drag brand Barcelona, brand Catalonia and brand Spain, worldwide projection... And we need it. They believe me we need her. And you do not understand, Madam Counselor – I take advantage of you here – the attitude, let me tell you, of arrogance that the Government is showing on this issue, when, moreover, on the other hand, from Aragon, there is a conciliatory attitude, of encounter, of consensus. And you are situated, I insist, in arrogance. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yesterday I was telling President Aragonès in the control session, that you have been installed for so long to encourage the conflict, to stir up those low passions, that when it comes to managing, that when it comes to getting to the meeting, you don't know how to do it. And this is a living example of it. And I think that here they should put aside politics and really think about the needs we have, which I think would also be a very good opportunity not only at the economic level, not only at the level of international projection, but also a good time to mend wounds, a good time to meet us again, a good time to reconcile us. You, who always show or want to show and put on the medal of what you like dialogue, dialogue, feel. And think, I insist, of the needs of the territory. You have tabled here today a motion which is called 'the winter Olympic Games motion, but which speaks absolutely nothing but the winter Olympic Games, except three points, which you quote, I suppose to cover up a little bit. There are many points here that, of course, we can vote on, because they talk about other issues, I insist. But in those in which you oppose frontally and are once again the "no, not all the opportunities presented to Catalonia", I tell you that we are not going to be there, we are not going to participate, because it would seem to us to be a tremendous irresponsibility. Again, I insist, listen to the territory and listen to what they are saying, because we are about to lose a great opportunity. And this attitude, I insist, which the Government has, totally irresponsible, what it is going to do is precisely to frustrate the options that we can have for this candidacy. So I ask you above all a great deal of responsibility in this matter, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.89.0	Well, thank you very much. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.90.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise... Well, first of all, thank all the papers presented, all of them from all the groups; also thank the debate with all the Members and Members, especially the Pyreneans and Pyreneans, Mr Fàbrega and Mr Romero, and also thank the good predisposition of the Members Sabater and Vilalta and the Deputy Fàbrega to be able to reach agreement. I think it's a good show of interest that the Pyrenees are waking up in this room as a theme that concerns us, and a lot, everyone. I want to focus, in the short time I have, on the point number 4 of the motion, on the point that we first traded with Juntas and the CUP and that later added Esquerra Republicana, which is the point that refers to the extension of the territorial scope of the popular consultation, incorporating the districts of Berguedà, Solsonès and Ripollès. The text we have given says what you say, does not give place to interpretations, and clearly says that ‘the Parliament urges the Government to agree with these territories to incorporate it into the consultation. Therefore, if we approve this point in this Parliament, then Berlin, Solson and Ripollès will vote. We agree that we must recognize the High Pirine and the Aran in their territorial entity. They can look for formulas, agree with the territory, as you say the point; if it is called, weigh the vote; if it is called, a differentiated reading of the territories. Whatever. But if we approve this point, these territories must vote. We are all aware of this, and I am especially addressing the deputies and deputies of Esquerra Republicana and Constellera Vilagra. We're celebrating that he's moved, and, counsel, I'm telling you very sincerely. Listening and rectifying is a virtue; it is not a demity, absolutely. And they demand that they be honest, that they be republicans, in the background, and that, if we approve this point today, that these communities vote – so, that they are consistent with what the Parliament approves. They have, if they want, at their hands to fall this point; but, if we approve, these coffers must vote. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.91.0	All right. So we will now begin voting on items 18 to 22 of the order of the day. For the votes we are now starting, we have incorporated a new delegated vote. Therefore, it will not be just three, as I informed the Prime Minister of the House, but four. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of waste (continuation)]] [[302-00094/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of the waste. We'll start by voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has dropped, with 38 votes in favour and 88 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 has not been approved, with 38 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved, with 53 votes in favour and 73 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved, with 46 votes in favour and 79 votes against. And finally, we vote for the rest of the points. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 116 votes in favour and 10 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the residue canon (cont'd)]] [[302-00098/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the residue canon. We'll vote, first, point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 115 votes in favour and 11 votes against. And now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 78 votes in favour and 48 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00094/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 115 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting points 2 and 4. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 64 votes in favour and 62 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 109 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 116 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 48 votes in favour and 78 votes against. We're voting now on 7 bis, 7 ter and 7 quater points. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 56 votes in favour and 70 votes against. We now vote on points 8, 9, 11 and 13. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 126 votes in favour. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 111 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point has not been approved, with 53 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 7 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the new basic education curriculum (cont'd)]] [[302-000101/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the new basic education curriculum. We first vote points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.c. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 16 votes in favour and 110 votes against. And finally, we vote on points 8a and 8.b. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 10 votes in favour and 116 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Winter Olympic Games (cont'd)]] [[302-00096/13]] And finally, we vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into the Winter Olympics. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes... there are two words asked for: Mr. Cid and Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.92.0	Yeah. In our case, it is because it is given reading point number 4, which is the transaction agreed with Esquerra Republicana, Juntes per Catalunya and the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.93.0	I will ask, therefore, at the time of voting point 4, to the first secretary who proceeded to the reading of this point. Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.94.0	Yes, President. It is for asking also separate vote of point 6, letter b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.95.0	The letter b..., we had it grouped together with the 7a. So, separately. All right, fine. So we'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 126 votes in favour. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved, with 15 votes in favour and 111 votes against. (Whispering) Sorry, it's been rejected – I don't know what I'm saying anymore. We're voting point number 2a now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 78 votes in favour and 48 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point has been approved, with 126 votes in favour. Ask the secretary to proceed to the reading of point number 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.96.0	"Consent with the districts of Bergedà, Solsonès and Ripollès its incorporation into the territorial scope of the participatory process and the popular consultation announced for the government on the Winter Olympics scheduled for the spring of enguany.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.97.0	Let's vote this point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 78 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point six in his cap. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting 6th points now. and 6.d. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 116 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting point 6.b now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 115 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention. We're voting point 6. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour and 16 votes against. We're voting now on the 7-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 110 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting for point 7.a now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 104 votes in favour and 22 votes against. We're voting now on point 7.b. The vote begins. Point 7.b_is approved, with 114 votes in favour and 12 votes against. We're voting now on point 7.c. The vote begins. That was 47 votes in favour, 16 against and 63 abstentions. We're voting now, finally, point 7.d. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 40 votes in favour and 85 votes against. Let's call the Spokesman's Board to finish the plethora, right now. And we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.98.0	Let's resume the session. [[Statement on the Russian Federation's aggression against the Republic of Ukraine]] And we just had a spokesperson meeting from which a statement came out that I'm going to read and have been signed up for all groups except the Popular Unity Candidacy and the VOX Group. It's a statement about the Russian Federation's aggression against the Republic of Ukraine. "The Parliament of Catalonia regrets and condemns the defunct actions by the Russian Federation against the territories of the Republic of Ukraine on the morning of February 24, 2022. This aggression is a flagrant violation of international law, has serious regional and global consequences and has to involve the assumption of responsibilities on the part of its promoters. The Catalonian Parliament has repeatedly stood in favour of the peaceful resolution of conflicts, for which we claim the fictitiousness of hostilities and the return to the path of negotiation and diplomacy. For this very reason, before the events in Ukraine, we urge the parties to return to the agreement in Minsk. We remind all states of the obligation to comply with international obligations in the matter of asylum, and we express our solidarity with all victims of this conflict, and we give our support to the organizations working for the defence and protection of human rights on the ground. Finally, this chamber supports the rapid and unified reaction of the European Union in this conflict, which always focuses on diplomacy and negotiation, the pau and the pre-eminence of democratic principles and values. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the neutrality of public institutions]] [[302-00097/13]] Having received this statement from the Board of Spokesmen, let us turn to the twenty-third item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the neutrality of the public institutions, which the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has presented. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.99.0	Thank you, Madam President. Today we present a motion that, with the things that we sometimes see in the legislative bodies, which are of some difficulty, sometimes have technical difficulty, this is very simple – it is very simple. And I am pleased to bring it to you, because everyone who feels that democracy has certain requirements will not have too many problems in voting this motion, because everything he says is very clear and very first – first – of ‘open up, sesame of democracy. Look, that's 15 points. Four of them talk about freedom of expression, about the possibility that we all say everything that we want to say peacefully within the laws – within the laws – logically, not inducing us to commit crimes, not making proclamations that can be criminal; within the laws we can all express ourselves. That, one way or another, is said by the first four points. I know that this, which should be an obvious fact, is not peaceful today in Catalonia, since there are people who pounce on municipalities like Vic's, as we saw the other day, when they forbid people to manifest freely because they believe they have different ideas to most of their city. Well, I think it is necessary today, in Parliament, that we talk about this and that Parliament should speak in favour of freedom of expression. Four points first. The fifth point has come up with something new, because this was about ideological freedom in universities. Of course, when we have an absolutely ideologically tendentious conseller d'Universitats, we have seven rectors of Catalan universities who seem to be fingered and who stand firm before any slogan from the government, because things like those that happened yesterday in the UPF, which is that young boys – little ones – are harassed, assaulted, insulted and beaten by an angry mass of brown shirts, and do..., beat the girls, in short, the bullying of all life, but brought to the universities with the support of the rectors, who look elsewhere, and a conseller who does not want to know anything and a parliament that I hope today protects that neutrality of the institutions so that they do not turn into ideological climates that then end up paying the students. Thirdly, a group of arguments. Respect the division of powers and sentences, the facades. Just a point. Yesterday, or the day before yesterday, the Constitutional Court confirmed the decision of disqualification of Mr Torra, who was making a tortherious use of public buildings, of what is of everyone's, of what neutrality we must respect. Another point. Officials. A commandment. A command almost from the law of the God of Democracies should be: "Respect the officials. Don't put them between the sword and the wall. Don't make them do things that are illegal. Illegal things do you, if you want to do them, but do not beg others, let alone officials. I believe that this will be voted on by all, no doubt; I am also sure. The Consellaria de Interior. One cop of all, for all. Let one, when going to a demonstration, know that the same can happen to him if he is «indepe or if he is not. I believe that we will all also agree that the vote should be taken. That, in external action, if you want to make propaganda of the process throughout the world, you have the money of your own political parties and your pockets to pay for it. The neutrality of counseling requires that money not be devoted to these things. We are talking about institutional advertising, which is based on neutrality criteria. We are talking about contracts, that the law is respected so that the amiguetes are not the beneficiaries. We are talking about the « body and the ACC, those instruments for the public media to be neutral. And finally, we call for the reprobation of President Laura Borràs. And we ask it for the lack of neutrality in the debates, for lying to the citizens in the Juvillà case, for attending a demonstration of the avenue Meridiana against the guidelines of the Government, for being part of the Council of the Republic and because it had not yet vetoed us to go to the Council of State Guarantees. I know this can cost you a little bit more, but I'm also sure that many of you are looking forward to it. And I say to you that it is time for Mrs Borràs to see that, in a parliamentary body she chairs, we should all be equal before her and the Bureau. I will therefore ask you in this vote to vote in favour of each of the paragraphs, which then, when it responds to the amendments, may give you some more notice of that vote. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.100.0	Then, he has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.101.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... The motion presented by Ciutadans has two fundamental elements: the first, for which it refers to the role of our institutions, and the second, to the reprobation of the Speaker of the Parliament. In time, I will focus on these two elements. Let's start with an evidence. We must be able to defend what we believe is always peaceful, with respect for the laws and our democratic framework. This is so simple that sometimes he does what he says, but I think he has to focus on this intervention. And that's to defend human rights, that's to defend the school in Catalan, that's to defend independence, that's to defend the unit of Spain, that's to defend even those who think Catalonia can have an education system with a twenty-five percent castle in the classroom. It's for everyone. It is the institutions that are responsible for defending these and other rights, such as tolerance, respect and coexistence. And hence the need for institutions to be neutral, because they represent us all, and the people who are at the forefront of these institutions understand that they are not at their disposal, that they cannot use them either personally or partyly. And here I hook up with the second part of this young man. Madam President, we have said this on different occasions: we consider that you have not been at the height of what this Parliament requires. We believe that it was wrong, that he has made decisions and made statements that have benefited the institution and its workers; not to dignify politics. A few weeks ago we saw the Juvilà case. You lied. We saw how he did a rhetorical disobedience exercise with the excuse of defending the escó of a deputy who did say he was no longer formally. Suspended even the entire activity of this Parliament. A president suspends the parliamentary action of her own parliament and gives lessons in democracy at a time. Criticise when others do, but then you as much as suspend the activity of this Parliament when you win them for reasons that are partyists and without any legal form of employment. Parliament does not need to suspend its activity, it needs to multiply it. Certainly, our group wants to thank the task of the workers and workers of this Parliament, those to which you, President, have transferred part of your responsibilities in their decisions. And, therefore, a curious defense of the institution. The failure of the laws already knows where it led us, to division and frustration on a large part of Catalans and Catalans, to institutional and political paralysis and, therefore, to backwardness. I can complete the rules, I can complete the laws, and so can those promulgated by the government of the Government of Catalonia and which, of course, brings together the political formation, Madam President, of which you have been head of the list. Being President of Parliament and Leader of the Opposition of its own Government now provokes scenes that, under our point of view and with all respect, we consider that we should be relieved. His presence at the demonstration of the Meridiana hours after his Government no longer authorizes it to you, again disallows the Councillor of Interior, disauthorizes the Government of Catalonia and lowers the institution to which you represent twenty-four hours a day while I am President of this Parliament. Madam President, the ringer can't go to trial. Either it defends the institution and its plurality, or it defends a legitimate political project, but not from here, but from here, from here, from the seats of the Members and the Members. We only ask you not to use your office as the Speaker of Parliament as the battlefield of the political differences between the two governing partners. To the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units we believe that we need to change course, that we need to recover the credit from this institution, and the responsible ones are the 135 Members and Deputies that we are here. We have to put this institution in the service of the citizenry, in the service of its representatives, guaranteeing the plurality of ideas, with respect for the laws, conforming to the majorities necessary even to change the laws when we consider that these are not fair or pleasing to us, making mutual and institutional respect the best way to present ourselves and to represent the jointness of the citizenry, making more compromise with them, more responsible with the jointness of the citizen and citizens, that they ask us, during these weeks, that we change the course, that we change the way their political representatives, the deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia are doing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.102.0	Next, it's the turn of the VOX Parliamentary Group. Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.103.0	Thank you, President. This motion presented to us Citizens the truth is that it is full of common sense in many respects, because we have been in Catalonia for decades, that the public authorities prevent many people and entities from spreading their ideas democratically. And these are pursued, vetoed, when not assaulted. Assaults which, in many cases, are not condemned either by the public authorities in Catalonia or by the media. There are many examples. July 21: insults and harassment and violence against García Manrique, professor of Philosophy of Law at the University of Barcelona. June 2016: brutal assault by five individuals on Ruth and Maria Rosa for promoting the selection of Spain on the street, to the cry of « Spanish whores, out of here, we will kill you. March 30, 2019: VOX will do an act in Barcelona – I don't know if they remember it –..., and the violent CDRs beat several assistants for wearing the flag of Spain or the shirt of the selection of Spain. Two hundred hooded people walked in the vicinity of the act shouting: "Pim, Pam, Pum, I didn't have one left. Some people know the song. 16 February 2020: the thugs « lazis de la Meridiana attack Xavier Rius, journalist. July 20, 2019 – all this, without condemning the Catalan public institutions –: they attend to eight tourists attacked by the puppies of the CUP, the supporters of "not everything and violence on the streets. Or attacks on the tents, like yesterday, to the S'Ha Final entity! , which had to go our president, Ignacio Garriga, to support students who wanted to express their opinion democratically. Or the tents of Spoken Spanish or other political parties present here. And, of course, to the VOX tents. Summary of 2019: 977 incidents of political violence and ideological hatred – 977. The ninety_and_six_per_cent of incidents were provoked by the separatists. Because you, the separatists in power, have allowed violence to settle on our streets and, as Vidal-Quadras said: "In the Basque Country you are killed and here you do not let live in peace. [[Greetings.]] Because separatists speak of repression by referring to the enforcement of the law and to the enforcement of judicial sentences, but they do away with this kind of aggression that we suffer many for not thinking like them. And we're still on the motion. Obviously it is legitimate to defend in the street the twenty-five percent of Spanish in our classrooms – obviously. We go further and we will achieve it: we want the freedom to study Spanish throughout Spain; also in Catalonia. Also in favour of institutions governed by public law – universities, professional colleges – being neutral and maintaining that institutional respect, and – we add – defending existing legality and unity. Obviously, in favour of respecting the division of powers and obeying judicial judgments. Of course, in favor of VOX's proposal, presented in this Chamber, that the public facades have respect for political neutrality and do not show ties or separatist and rupturist symbolism, which violates legality and our coexistence. It is also in the interests of officials to act as officials, to stop using them in the service of their illegality and their project, to undermine that coexistence and that unity that we defend. With regard to point 11, with the External Action Adviser, we have tabled an amendment to delete it, because, for VOX, we consider that the basis of external action has to be carried out by the Kingdom of Spain, and to give an instrument of these characteristics to separatists what it does is to undermine the image of Spain and that they can, of course, promote their rupturist agenda. Point 12, we shall vote against. Since VOX, we don't believe in subsidizing the media. For three reasons. Everyone's money is not to help private business projects. We do not contribute to the independence of these media if we water them with public money, as has been shown lately. And if a means of communication is good and necessary, don't worry, the market will keep it and will have it in place. Do we ensure compliance with public service contract regulations? Of course we look after that fulfillment. As far as the body is concerned, as you know, we do not believe in its existence. Do not be fooled, Lords of Citizens, the "body, in the hands of the separatists, is an instrument of hatred and destruction. They lose all hope; they won't get it. Do not try to maintain that body because, in the end, it is giving it more weapons to end our unity and our coexistence. It serves to place your friends, plugging, fomenting hatred of Spain and its anti-society model and wasting everyone's money. Asking for neutrality is impossible for them. I mean, stop making that effort because they're not gonna make it. Finally, we share the need for Parliament's presidency to be exercised with neutrality, with respect for legality and without using this presidency as a political platform. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.104.0	After the defense of the papers presented, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy lady Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.105.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... we're in front of one of those Citizens' motions that leaves no room for doubt. What you want is not institutional neutrality. What you want is neutrality. What they want is neutrality, neutrality... we'll talk about after what it means. You seek the neutrality of the Catalan national institutions, the neutrality of the Catalan language and the neutrality of the majority population, which votes independence. In fact, you were born with this objective: to neutralize us, to nullify us, to make us disappear. You, in fact, don't quite distinguish yourself from the ultrathreat. This morning we listened to Mr. Martin Blanco defending VOX here, forgiving them their Francoist ancestry and affiliation. And yesterday you too went to follow VOX to Pompeu Fabra University, presenting yourself there as threatening bodyguards. Three deputies allecioning about fexism at the university about... young people protesting legitimately. "Stop faixisme, deien. And, what should I tell you, Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Grau, Mr. Martin Blanco? This is what the students did: to remove the fascism of Ciutadella, from the university. Two things about neutrality. Neutrality in the face of conflicts between parties with unequal powers cannot exist. The other one mentioned himself many times in this room, but we'll be back. Desmond Tutu said: "If you are neutral in a situation of injustice, you have chosen the side of the oppressor. In situations of injustice, the neutral look is always political, because it is servile to the power and the firm. Equidistance does not represent a neutral position, and there are no apolitical positions. And if not, that the 78th Spanish Constitution imposed on us, imposed on us a monarchy, you will tell me that it was almost neutral. And, well, your lady leaves pearls. Indeed, if there were time, it would be a great pleasure to dismount them, to appeal to freedom of expression... you precisely do not question that the Spanish State is the state of the world with more committed artists, as Freemuse makes it clear, and as the European authorities themselves are continually touching the crust as the bite law is leaving a persecution of freedom of expression inadmissible. But, well, what we have very clearly is that until the Spanish courts allow the deputies in this Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia, to be able to debate about independence, about the monarchy and about what they give to the voters who voted for them, then we cannot begin to debate with you about what I want to see with institutional neutrality, whether this exists or not. We'll vote not for everything. Yes, also against the reprobation of President Borràs. This proposal by Ciutadans is a more right-wing and extreme right-wing maneuver to, precisely with the judicial apparatus, sow the for and prevent us from defending our collective and individual rights. No matter how we play the game, the repression or the Spanish right. Citizens and the extreme right do everything in their grasp because this Parliament is an absolutely subordinate and unqualified institution for the deployment of legislative frameworks that come from vast majority parliaments. And do you know what this Parliament degrades? Do you know what it is? That the proposals to guarantee the right to housing, for example, or to regulate the logger remain systematically rejected, remain systematically delegitimized for the courts of IBEX 35. This degrades the institution. And that for more than a decade that clear independenceist majority here can't decide our future. Now, despite the fact that we are voting against the reprobation in the terms and direction that you present, it must be clear before the people. She handled the Juvillà case was neither transparent nor clear. The JEC is not a competent body to remove the minutes from the deputy. So he voted for it here in the same Parliament in the opinion of the December. And, what's the reality? That, despite this opinion of the September, this Parliament ended up withdrawing the Minutes. Therefore, we reaffirm that we will vote in favour of your motion and of all that you defend, but we do want to make this clear about the Juvillà case. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.106.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.107.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, we're in front of another citizen's youth who also want to talk to us about freedom of expression and other values and concepts, but at the end what they end up doing – and we all know it – is using this type of instrument to search, to search for society and to create conflicts where there are none, because we already know that for a long time you have lived from this, from the crisis. But, well, even so, we think it's interesting, so we can take advantage of this young man too to debate some of the concepts that come up with. And an interesting concept is democracy, because it's a word that we all tend to put in our mouths; we're all democrats, but I don't think we all understand the same for democracy. And it's true that their political formation has a vision of democracy that is dominant, that is of the states in which we are, that are born liberal. And, therefore, this concept of democracy I recognize that it is the majority, but we do not share it, even though, indeed, many of the questions raised in the motion could be subscribed to. But I'm trying to argue with him some of the things we don't share with him about his vision of democracy. First, you understand..., and in this young man show it: when they talk about democracy, they talk about democracy as a model simply represented and they tell us that here they only have the right to participate in political parties and legally constituted associations. So, look, we believe that democracy is something broader and that all citizens must be able to participate. And, therefore, the concept of political participation I think is far beyond the representation that you usually express. Secondly, we believe that democracy is precisely the power to dissent. And you, in change, mark it all in the need to always complete and to always be among the legal brands established. And I ask myself, how have democratic rights been won? How have the great adventures been won? Have they been conquered from legal marks established at every moment or have they been conquered questioning them, criticizing them, subverting them? This is how we have come to have democratic rights such as, for example, women's suffrage and many others. Therefore, it is from here, from the question, from the criticism, as we believe we can advance. And in this sense, you also talk about universities and tell us that they must be neutral. So, miri, I think universities should be spaces of thought, spaces of criticism, spaces of power-questioning everything. Where, if not, do we have to be able to constantly question everything that has been done with different views and different points of view? Therefore, this is also a different look that we have on what it is or what democracy should be. And, look, there's another concept that we also defend a lot and that we certainly don't share with you, which is the concept of fraternity. Because it is true that freedom and equality can also be put in our mouths, but fraternity also shows us how we understand this freedom or this equality. Miri, we, from a fraternal look..., for us freedom has to see with non-dominance and, therefore, you have to see with combat all abuses of power – all –, which their party, therefore, does not do either. Because you understand freedom from a strictly individualistic look at this liberalism that defends individuals, but you don't see that we live in communities. Because for you freedom is the non-interference of public powers over individuals. But also, from the concept of fraternity, we understand that equality is different. For us, equality has to see with material equality, because without material equality, for us, there can be no democracy either. In change, you are referring to a vision of sovereignty, which we do not share, which is this vision of states as sovereigns from a purely national perspective, while we believe that sovereignty must reside in the city, that sovereignty has a popular natural. And that's important, because their logic of exclusively national sovereignty leads them to which their party is also, which is a clearly nationalist party, in which the link between people is not an egalitarian link as we could defend, but is an exclusively identity link. Therefore, neither do we share your vision or your model of state and democracy. In short, because our way of hearing democracy is very different from his, so we would vote against the great majority of the points of this young man, who, moreover, carry a very clear ideological bias. You're just staring at all those who don't think like you and mark it from a concept of freedom of expression where they don't stop setting limits, right? Freedom of expression, yes, but between a legal mark; yes, but we cannot sing certain songs; yes, but in this Parliament we cannot vote on self-determination or on the monarchy. Therefore, freedom of expression, yes, but loaded with limits. And, in addition, in a _marc of confrontation, with neutrality, that this young man has numerous contradictions at the time of putting in the same package many things, but, among them, freedom of expression and neutrality. For all this, we will not support most of the points of this young man. And for what it does at point 15, I think our political formation has already expressed what it thinks about this point and, therefore, we will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.108.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.109.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, move that we are going to support all the points of this motion, which is a rather broad motion, which covers many aspects under the umbrella of respect for the neutrality of public institutions, which we obviously share. And it is that a lot is happening in Catalonia that makes us have to talk about this respect for the neutrality of public institutions. Yesterday we had a sample at the UPF, with that attack that S'Ha Afinat guys received! , simply by setting up a tent to explain their ideas from respect and from then on, democratic values, which seems to be that others do not share. And, again, we saw images that are totally pitiful and condemnable in democracy. To try to silence some boys who, I insist, are only doing to explain their ideas in a totally peaceful way within what they leave them, because, honestly, the attacks they receive are not their own, I insist, of a democracy of the twenty-first century. From here again, show our full support for the youth association of S'Ha Afinet! , which, honestly, seems to me that they are brave and that they know that every time they mount a tent they will meet the intolerants and the radicals, and that does not stop them, because they know that they are on the right side of history. So from here all my support. But it's not just S'Ha Finish! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You are also attacking other types of entities, such as the bilingual school association. Let us remember that the councilwoman herself used TV3 to refer to this association that defends bilingualism in Catalonia as a radical and fascist association. Moreover, they also did not leave them the right to reply; it came after several weeks and not by the means that would have been ideal. For example, also the case of School of All, which has already been cited. An entity, too, a cluster of entities advocating for a thing that is as basic as the enforcement of judgments; in this case, the enforcement of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which sets minimum percentages of vehicle languages in school: twenty-five_per_cent at least in Spanish, twenty-five_per_cent at least, also in Catalan. And they're just collecting signatures. And since, moreover, the Department of Education has already made it very clear to us that it does not intend to comply with this sentence and that it does not intend to give instructions to schools, they are doing a campaign of dissemination so that all those parents, all those families who want their children to be schooled also in Castilian in Catalonia can defend themselves legally before, I insist, this abuse of rights that is being perpetrated by the Council of Education. Well, this entity, School of All, turns out that it wanted to explain precisely what I was telling them now in Vic, and the mayor – who is here, Mrs Anna Erra – refused to be able to mount this tent for – as the resolution said – « being contrary to morality and good habits. I don't know what time Mrs. Anna Erra lives or the consistory of Vic City Hall. Not only did this happen with the case of the School of All, which, I insist, was prevented from mounting this tent, but it also happened to us, to the People's Party. We have a group of activists in Vic. Even if some are surprised, yes, in Vic we also have militants. We wanted, of course, to make the project known, we also wanted to celebrate that we had formed this local board. We asked for a tent for regulatory procedures, and again Mrs Erra told us that it was contrary to morality and good habits, that I would like you to be able to develop this concept some day more, because I think it would be interesting, development. Frankly, it is regrettable that in the times ahead we cannot set up a tent to explain a political project. If it does not coincide with yours absolutely nothing happens, it is in that it consists of democracy, in political plurality. What happens, that you don't want to give voice to those who don't think the same as you. By the way, the prosecution is already investigating these facts in case there is a possible offence of administrative prevarication in this case. Well, there are many points I would like to be able to enter, but I am running out of time and I do not want to leave this rostrum without talking about the last point of this motion, which speaks precisely of Mrs Borràs' reprobation for an accumulation of facts. The truth is that, since the People's Party, we have gone a little further, we have called for the resignation of Mrs Borràs, because we are seeing a series of actions that do not seem to us to be specific to the President of Parliament, do not seem to us to be specific to the second authority of Catalonia, as it is to present itself in a demonstration disapproved by the Government of the Generalitat itself. That is to say, when the second authority in Catalonia directly disobeys the Government of the Generalitat, a very dangerous message is being sent to the rest of the population, and it is that disobedience comes free and here absolutely nothing happens, and that, I insist, seems very serious to us. I believe that what the president has to do is to maintain the duty of institutional neutrality, she has to represent all Catalans, and with this attitude that she is having, unfortunately, she does not do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.110.0	It is now the return, in the name of Junts for Catalonia, of Mrs Mònica Sales' deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.111.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I must confess that I had certain problems in preparing this intervention, because after reading Ciutadan's text I did not know whether before I could write I had to submit myself to a neutralizing machine of ideology in order to make a neutral speech or if I could do what I had to do here every day, that it is to defend the citizens who have put their trust in me and in my group, which has made thirty-two Members of Parliament and which has made fifty-two independents possible. You, the ones who often ask for neutrality, usually leave it at home. I'm asking for the others, but I didn't do very well when I was practicing with the example. A recent exhibition is the shameful student act that you also did at the universities, where we certainly cannot impose neutrality, because it goes against your mission. It must be thought that we thought they were interested in all the points of this young man, but we know that they only want to focus on President Borrás. That she is behaved differently is also demonstrated, precisely, with this reason that we are debating. They know – and if they don't know it, they should know – that the motions urge the government, but not the presidency of Parliament and, therefore, they know that this point may have been ignored, because it is their only objective. But the Bureau of Parliament does not censor, allows the debates, even though it itself does not fight or just participate-there. And the advances that didn't disprove her. And they'll let me explain why. It seems to me that you and I have attended debates that are totally different, because if for one thing it is characteristic of the way in which the President conducts these debates, it is for neutrality, for rigour, for scrupulous respect for the institution and for its code of conduct. Perhaps what they understand for lack of neutrality is that it does not allow them to do those skirmishes to which we are accustomed often and which they have done until she has taken over this presidency of the Parliament. They must never – and I am telling you the truth – confuse what is rigour with what is impartiality. They speak of lies in the case of the withdrawal of the escho of the deputy Juvillà, and perhaps they should be made concrete. On the 14th of February at the Spokesman's Meeting there was an exhaustive explanation of all the facts in a chronological way. They can get it back because, in a transparency exercise that I think the Members of the House of Commons would like to thank, the President has exhausted the sequence at a meeting that has been held publicly, which had not happened since 2003. They see lies because you have already made your verdict from bad days or bad months. But people see accountability and transparency. Do they really think we'll think you're worried about them or not if the president goes to a demonstration or not? The truth is that no, but they must believe that we do care about one thing, that they do not prioritize why these manifestations, contextualizations in the strong repression we live, especially since 2017. Don't pull over. And, besides, our determination is firm, and the will for Catalonia to follow a state is still well alive. I speak of degrading, you, Mr. Carrizosa, lords of Ciutadans. Do you know which parliamentary group was concerned day and day to degrade the honorability of this chamber? I think they know the answer. These arguments should not be used to disprove the President of Parliament. What they have to do is look for the results at the polls. They fall down day and day, too, because fortunately people have criteria and vote in the polls to what they consider. And people vote in the ballot box for people who defend political programs, people who then occupy institutions with this way of doing and being that people have precisely put in value, with the essence of each one, from the neutrality that they demand, but without being neutralized ideologically by this machine that you would like to have. Yesterday, with total impunity and on countless occasions, they accused the president of all the evils of the world: impartiality, lack of neutrality, degradation of institutions, use of Parliament's personalist. The ones who told us about the degradation of institutions are the ones who have imported the rift and the spectacular policy in this Parliament. And in this young man, let's put it back in evidence. Those who remain impartial to us are those who celebrate the partiality of a party and politicized justice that pursues ideas and sentence against human rights. What luck, mine, to be so far away from his way of thinking and his way of doing. And what happens, the people who can choose. They keep acting like they're acting because they're headed for extinction. We'll do it for freedom's sake too. And you, President, before those who pass through the path of the chastisement and the judicialization of politics, follow the path of defence of rights and freedoms, the way of fighting for the good name of this institution, go ahead for the path of good politics, with us, President, at your side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.112.0	Thank you very much. There is now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.113.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see that the pronunciation of my last name is another element that does not generate consent in this chamber. [[Rialles.]] Well, let's go to the grass. With all the humility, but also with all the pride, Mr Carrizosa, I must say that we will not accept, from my parliamentary group, that we are giving ourselves a lesson in the field of defence of rights and freedoms. In the 1990s of the history of the Republican Left of Catalonia, I think there are enough exhibitions of sacrifices, individual and collectible, still today, huh? , of the sacrifices that we have suffered for the defense of the fundamental rights of the citizens of our country. And therefore, logically, we must speak in favour of the defence of the fundamental rights of all the citizens of our country, think what they think, and, logically, also in favour of freedom of expression and opinion of public bodies and also of functioning. And, from this point of view, it is not clear to us that all those public equipments, those institutions which you related on the day of your inquiry, there was no complaint on the part of the head that I would operate according to any indication or respect of how they should proceed, of which symbols must show, if they believe it, logically, as I said, in the exercise of their right to freedom of opinion. And when you talk about neutrality – and I listened to your inquiry – I think you are strictly at the formal level. You only care about what the links are, what the banners are, but what you have to see with the formal neutrality of the institutions, in the material, huh? , as far as the policies of the public institutions are concerned, they do not care so much about the citizen. And you come here to complain like that team that's complaining about the referee's pocket, when historically it's the one that didn't get the most benefit. And you, in the balance of all the actions that they take before the Spanish institutions, in all those organizations that have to resolve conflicts, always come out clearly winners. They have told them before: when you try to vote, you do not have any result. When it comes to going to the jutjats to claim that they don't win the ballot boxes, there they do win in a usual way. And we talk in abstracts, we talk about right of opinion, right to expression, right to free manifestation, but we always do it in abstracts, don't we? , of this principle of political neutrality that must exist in the institutions. But I'd like to land a little, wouldn't I? And we're landing him on concrete assumptions. I'll ask if you know Mr. Alonso Segura. Probably doesn't know him. And I'll tell him who it is. Mr. Alonso Segura is Mayor of Cúllar, is the mayor of the municipality of Cúllar, Granada. And this lord, whom I know because his township is engaged with mine, with Lloret de Mar..., he knows why many of the cities of Cúllar came in the decade of the sixties, the seventy to Lloret, to help, together with those who lived there, to build our township because it is what it is today, a first-degree tourist power. So, in this case, this gentleman – I don't know if he knows about it – was sentenced to nine years of disability for public office exercise. I was, in this case, for the Provincial Audience of Granada. This lord until he was absolved, happily absolved by the High Court of Justice of Andalusia, has been a mayor of his municipality. The Central Electoral Board has not withdrawn the Minutes. He did not ask the Secretary of the Juntament de Cúllar requesting that he make effective the withdrawal of the registrar's credentials from the mayor of Cúllar because you entered a new registrar, in this case, from his municipal group, to bear this responsibility. And why didn't he do it? Because there was no political interest. Cúllar's mayor – and we must say so – is neither independent nor Catalan. And, therefore, there is no political neutrality in Spanish institutions. Therefore, it is not a complaint that I have transposed a formal element, such as a graphic complaint in different Catalan public spaces and rights, when there is a lack of defence in the material, because the Spanish institutions are not aging for the language rights of the citizens of this country, they are not aging for the principle of equality between the citizens. Do you believe that the Electoral Board has chosen, defended the principle of equality in the cases of President Torra, Deputy Juvillà? , what has the Supreme Court done in the acts of MEPs of the deputies Junqueras, Romeva, Comín and in so many other assumptions? I certainly don't think so. Finally, I would like to refer to the reprobation of the President of Parliament. We are those of the independence unit, those of the defence of democracy, and from the first moment we said that we would be on the side of the president, that the members of the Bureau who belong to our formation would be on the side of the president – Vice President Alba Vergés and Secretary Ruben Wagensberg – and that we would arrive until we arrived, aware of the difficulties of the opposition before the repression, and we would continue to be there, when you need it. That's why I want to explicitly claim the figure and management of what was the president of this Parliament, Roger Torrent, for everything he's been suffering from since today. And, therefore, before the repression we understand that it is a firm democracy and a strategic and action unit. We will continue, as always, to fight repression and authoritarianism. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.114.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mr Carlos Carrizosa returns to the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.115.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, with regard to the amendments, we accepted one from the Socialist Party; the others did not, because they significantly reduced the wording. Those who presented us VOX have not been able to accept them, because they go with their model and it is not the model of Citizens. And, therefore, if you want to approve those in the terms you suggest, you present them. And with regard to what has been said – quickly – by some spokespersons. Mrs. Sabater, do you defend bullying in schools? Do you defend him? Do you advocate bullying, that there be children who beat up other children? And then, when you're young and it's for ideas and then you call yourself and you put on a sheet of antifascists, then you do support bullying? Do you support them by hitting people for their ideas? Well, look, we don't – we don't – Mrs. Sabater. [[Some applause.]] The common ones. You have used the speech to demarcate yourself, Mr Parés, from liberal democracies. Let us say, he makes an umbrella, and then he says: "Since we do not agree in most of his ideas, we will not vote in favour of things that are of the essence of democracy. And that's it. And then that's his way of looking at it. Look, Junts for Catalunya. Mrs. Sales, everyone pays for their own, that's institutional neutrality. You don't pay for separatism with everyone's money. Institutions belong to everyone, not just separatism. And Mr. Orobig, whom I appreciate and respect. Mr Orobig, ninety years and two coups d'état and a convicted tobacco dealer is the Republican Left balance sheet. [[Widow's remorse.]] I think we can teach them some kind of democracy lesson. Good. And already very quickly. Mrs Borràs's request for reprobation..., we will ask that the vote be secret so that all of you can vote in conscience. Gentlemen of the Republican Left, you vote in conscience; gentlemen of the UPC, despite what you have said – I know that you have been deceived, even if you have denied it here – because you can also vote in conscience by secret ballot. We will ask for it just before the vote, as it should, and in addition, paragraph by paragraph, so that you can choose which one you reject Mrs Borràs for. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.116.0	Let's get to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the need for a fair, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work. [[Following the question to the Government on the need for a just, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work]] [[302-00099/13]] It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and has the word to expose it by Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.117.0	President, thank you. Well, Members, Members, Councillors, Workers, Workers in Parliament... After last week's inquiry, therefore, we present different proposals divided into two blocks: a first block on, logically – we have already announced, we have already said – we would bring some of the points that we consider important because they are reflected in this continuous advance towards the recovery of labour rights that have remained outside the current labour reform. And, therefore, on this line of continuing to work and continuing to advance, on the line of continuing to contribute, on the line of continuing to achieve that the work reform of the PP of 2012, the work reform of the PSOE of 2010 remained in a non-res, let us continue with our contributions. And, therefore, in the first few moments we ask for the recovery of the salary of processing, we ask for the recovery of the prevalence of the autonomous and provincial agreements, we ask also for the recovery..., we ask for the recovery of the... Now the saint has gone to the cell. Did you see that? This happens not to go out with papers. [[Rialles.]] We ask, in a way, for the recovery of the rest of the rights that have been violated in this new reform. And so, so, that we understand that only five points is a small display of everything that we need to keep moving forward, and I think there's a way to keep moving forward. And that's why I also want to thank the presentations that have been made by the group of common people. I think that some of them – I will say this at the moment, when I hear the reply – are points that have allowed certain agreements to be reached; others... I think that, unfortunately, it is still too close and, therefore, we are still too far apart. But what is evidence: that more resources are being used for the job inspection, and what is evidence is that we are following the reversal of those rights that have been violated and that have been reflected in previous labor reforms. Then, there is another second block, one_second block that remains well determined and narrowed to government action, and, therefore, a_second block that remains totally collected in areas such as training. Here, for example, we make a proposal concerning dual vocational training and also the intervention of SOC programmes. I, who visit many companies..., one of the main petitions that makes us the business fabric of the country is precisely that it is a better formative. But we also need to be aware that this better training and this re-evaluation of vocational training must also go hand in hand with overcoming the gap between training skills and training skills. And, therefore, the human resources in formation that we can dispose of respect for the needs of the labor market..., but also try to compensate this emptiness, this drilling, with other relevant aspects, such as precisely a good prospect and also a good training orientation in the previous educational stages. Also, logically, the impact of covid-19 on the business fabric of our country. And, therefore, an investment in this sense in our business fabric, with the help that has already been done, but also with a package of 100_million euros from the ICF to help overcome this period of time that we have experienced in the past few years. And also, logically, proposals aimed at fighting the dark, at fighting also all the policies that have taken steps towards us, that are leaving people of our society on the fringe, that are being excluded from the labour market and that, therefore, our Administration, the Generalitat de Catalunya, has the obligation to compensate, to compensate with active policies. And, therefore, in this sense, gender equity in the labour market. In this sense, it is also important to focus, and very much, on these sectors of the population that are most vulnerable, such as the majors of forty-five years of age, also young people, with difficult access to the world of work, and also – and here we are already advancing one of the issues that we have accepted from the commons – all people who are in a long-running and chronic situation, which I believe is a matter of urgency that we have to face, and that from the proper Government of the Generality are also activating the mechanisms to do so. In short, a motion that... okay, we talk about labor reform, we talk about proposals, some of the proposals for labor reform, but we also focus on the action of our government and we also focus on the action of our department. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.118.0	Thank you very much. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.119.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Counselor, thank you for being here today. The other day I found him missing. I thought you weren't interested in working problems; I see you are. I should have another afer. Let me start, Congressman, with a poem by Vazquez Montalbán. Maybe they already know her, huh? , but I like to remind you from time to time: « Useless to look so high at sky/ useless cosmonaut who does not know/ the name of the things that ignore you/ the color of the pain that does not kill you/ useless cosmonaut/ who contemplates stars/ not to see the rats. I suppose everyone will understand the meaning of a poem by the famous Catalan writer and poet, novelist Manel Vázquez Montalbán, which refers to that we go on to "not divert attention, which makes us forget what goes on for the working people, which is the case we are dealing with, when, in the accounts of applying the best jobs we have to the hand, we try to make them fool that a future won't come while we don't try to apply the best ones that can really benefit them. My disappointment – I found myself in front of this young man who introduced Deputy Albert – because he saw that it was the loss of an opportunity to take advantage of the lever that represents the legal change favorable to workers and workers that represents the labor reform approved a few weeks ago at the Congress. It was a phonetic lever that allowed us to push a change in the attitude and in the ways of acting of the Government of the Generality – it would be good for you to hold, counselor, why also goes for you, huh? – because it would also be a lever, say, this labor reform, which would help us push a change in the attitude and ways of acting by the Government of the Generality in relation to the social dialogue, in relation to social concertation. To be able to make a flag of this subject, which allows the rapid translation, in short, of the measures favourable to workers and the change of some backward entrepreneurial attitudes. I understand the problems that Deputy Albert may have at the time of writing this young man. I understand the balance you have to make when you define the strategy with Juntes for Catalonia and you have to monitor the authorization of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Economy Councillor, and this can limit its formulations in the motion. But we need to know exactly what we're talking about when we're talking about the labor market and labor relations. We run the risk of ignoring the reality that it's labor relations and that it's the labor market. In labour relations, the agreement between the shares is law. The European Union said that and the common sense said that. The motion speaks of convenient provincial and autonomous collectivities, but we do not talk about the articulation of these to avoid social dumping or unfair competitions. They would do well to remember what happened in Igualada – what happened in Igualada – when Lleida's provincial convention devalued, and much, the Barcelona provincial convention, where the industries that could have been in Igualada were installed before the delleial competition that involved a provincial agreement that devalued the working conditions of the Barcelona convention, which applied to Igualada. Let's ask them, the people who lived in Equalada in those years... that Lleida's provincial convention was what it was. Or let's ask them, to the workers and workers of the special work centres who had a convention of Catalonia will fully rise and autonomous..., which has fallen, this convention of Catalonia, because the employers wanted this convention of Catalonia to be inferior to the conditions of work mandated by the sectoral convention state. Evidently, the workers said that it is good, suitable from Catalonia yes, whenever it is to improve the conditions of the state agreement, not to instil them. They don't want to live worse in Catalonia with a deal we could have if we wanted, if the employers wanted, because they want the companies and the workers, they don't dictate the governments. The governments must put in place the facilities so that they come out with the agreed ones. In any case, I think we'd do well, after this young man, to hear that the agreements are about to be completed. We can't just... sign agreements and then complete them. Ask them - here, to the workers and families of the Cultural Academy of the Hospital. Change can't be imposed. The changes can be negotiated and agreed upon. Do not pass as the conflict that is arising at these times to education in relation to the curriculum or the school calendar. The best ones apply. It's not like we're being told by Constable Geis, who doesn't want to apply the indefinite contract to research and university search workers, because it's better to have the job and you serve because we get more fucked up. The frauds are controlled, and if the frauds are controlled, what we need to work on is to increase and strengthen the role of the Labour Inspectorate to control the frauds. This is what we had – we understand – to have made this young man. That is why we will not vote for the first part of the motion. We will vote for the second part, which corresponds to our proposals, which can generate a contradiction to who votes them, because it is the proposals that the Government mandates to two things: to coordinate and dialogue these things between the affected parts, and, two, to apply all and every one of the best that the labor reform mandates to apply and improve the lives and working conditions of the country's workers. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.120.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Lázaro has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.121.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to you all, Members of Parliament, Counsellor. They say political language is designed to make lies look like truths. Well, this is what this motion stands for, designed more with a chapucian language of ideological marketing than with sound technical and economic measures. The Parliamentary Group of Republican Left presents today an initiative urging the Government of the Generalitat to promote a fair, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the working environment in a post-pandemic world. Well, reducing what these three concepts actually mean, so that the street people understand it. First. When they speak of a just reboot, they actually do not defend true social justice, but the interests of a wealthy globalist elite who seek to direct and strangle the lives of workers and small entrepreneurs. [[Some applause.]] Second. When they talk about sustainable rebooting, they actually talk about the imposition of climate hysteria, without taking into account the interests and demands of the workers, to whom they claim to defend, or the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And third. When they talk about an equitable reboot, they are actually talking about the tyranny of egalitarianism, contrary to the effort, merit, excellence and true equality of opportunity that we defend from VOX. We are not surprised, as the left that you represent defends just the opposite: mediocrity, lying, clientelism and indoctrination. Ladies and gentlemen, stop lying, do not try to hide your true intentions. In fact, when they talk about rebooting they refer to the great resettlement they are trying to impose on us from the globalist agendas of Davos and the United Nations. Mr Albert, they're talking about transforming the economic model. Is that about the 2030 agenda? That by 2030 we won't have anything and we'll be very happy? In addition, technically his proposal is far from the seriousness and rigour, which, on the other hand, tends to shine because of his absence in this Parliament. They talk about recovering the prevalence and priority of autonomous conventions against the state. This would undermine the proper functioning of the market unit in Spain and the contractual efficiency between employers and workers. Within their manic desire to control the greatest possible competences and thus deepen the political gap with the State, they propose a Catalan minimum wage, another delusion contrary to the law, as imaginary as their false republic. The management of processing wages and the administrative authorization of the labour authority on the regulated consignors of occupation. Ladies and gentlemen, please, in view of the SOC's historical history and its disastrous management, we are surprised by your efforts to continue to make mistakes in terms of employment and business management. Pay attention to the recommendations of Fepime and the European Commission, and transfer these powers to the State. You are experts in creating legal uncertainty and disincentives to investment. They continue in their attempt to drown the small entrepreneurs. Finally, they continue in their political claim to impose their ideology of the green scam, on the one hand, and the feminist lie, on the other. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment to encourage economic support measures for vulnerable groups, such as young people or older people, regardless of their sex or any ideological consideration. Finally, Mr Desquerra, do you want to help Catalan workers and entrepreneurs? Leave behind propaganda proposals, cease totalitarian impositions, get to work and let people work. That's the only way they'll get it right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.122.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group for Progress, the deputy Mrs Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.123.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll start at the end of the show, at the second half of this show today. True, the pandemic has accelerated, and much, the changes already planned for the medium and long term. Economic recovery is already a fact, and it is necessary to accompany it with a fair economic transition. A transition that transforms our product texture and direction into the digital and ecological transition era. A transformation that puts the focus on the whole of the city, but with special emphasis on those collections that in the past decades have suffered the worst of an economy that has left them relegated as soon as they go abroad, such as women, young people and older workers. In this sense, we want to thank the papers presented for the group of commons. We consider that they enrich the text and deal with those aspects where we think we need to have a special sensitivity, as well as the consideration of the importance of the practice and the loose agreements in the social dialogue. Because the dialogue and social concertation reinforces and gives greater effectiveness to the policies due to the political powers. Therefore, we will give support to point 2 in its conjunction. Well, now, about the first part of the young lady, here already, then, we certainly have discrepancies. It won't surprise them that we tell them we don't share your initial appreciation for labor reform. We do not share this value, nor do we share the sense of your vote in the Congress of Deputies. But the truth, Mr Albert, is that it is not us who will tell you that the measures included in the reform are sufficient or not. What we're going to tell them is that they're needed. In a country where forty per cent of contracts signed in one month are for less than five days, these measures are necessary. In a country where the greatest wage devaluation of the history of democracy has come to an end in recent years, these measures are necessary. In a country where temporality doubles the middle of the European Union, these measures are necessary. In a country where the instability of the labor market causes every crisis we suffer to be destroyed by thousands of jobs, these measures are necessary. And so I could go on. As I said, Congressman, it's not us who'll tell you if they're enough or not. We are convinced that the time and data that we come back with the step of time will be the one that will do it. Look, we've heard some statements, and in tweets from your spokesman to the Congress of Deputies, saying this is Mrs Botín's reform. Miri, no, no. This isn't Mrs. Botín's reform. This is the reform of Unai Sordo and Pepe Álvarez. This is the reform of Javier Pacheco and Camil Ros. This is the reform of the main unions in Spain and Catalonia as well. This isn't a competition to see who's on the left, because they're already getting ahead of the unions. Here it is about recovering rights, recovering rights in one of the first reforms that, in a long time, in the head of your articles, damages and deteriorates the conditions of workers and workers. And now, finally, a final theme, the question of the social dialogue. Many things have been said around the social dialogue, but I just want to focus on one of them: the idea that has not been negotiated with Catalonia. That phrase from the Junts for Catalonia to the Congress that the social dialogue in Spain doesn't speak Catalan. Do you know that the eighty per cent of workers in Catalonia are represented by the two unions that follow the social dialogue table? Do you know that in Catalonia these two unions have voted for them more people than the list that captivated the current president of the Generalitat in the last elections? So, please, stop questioning the social dialogue, stop questioning the agreements that come from social concertation, because efficiency, stability and legal certainty, which affect labour regulation, are closely related to the degree of dialogue and concertation. The imposition of some decisions is a bad practice that, on some occasions, has led us to failure. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.124.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.125.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, Counselor. I believe that on the third or fourth vote in this House around the reform of the labour market. In all, the result has been the same, although some people understand how to praise the great virtues of non-work reform. Today, presumably, with a few nuances, but there will be the same result again. This Parliament will say again that what was approved at the Congress of Deputies on the 3rd of February is far from being the labor reform that the working class and that this country needs. And that's evidence. Because a report has been built around this labor reform as a tool for modernization. But in the background, if we talked about modernizing the productive structure, still, but the end is not this. The goal is to reactivate the Spanish growth cycle, as if we do not know that this growth has some limits and has a series of consequences or problems. Because it seems that those who have defended the decree that was passed on the 3rd of February only believe that the economy is able to activate through the revival of the gains of capital, as if it is not more important. And this is part of the essence of the defense that ended up from that royal decree. Because, above all, above all, it's a royal decree, that in no case can anyone discuss it any more. But it is that, moreover, this modernization that ends up assuming and what is in fact the reorganization of the ruling class in its struggle against the working and subordinate classes. And that's why today we're going back to saying that the 3rd of February was a non-work reform, and that we were no longer short and that it was a first step, that we were left with what the working class needed, and that what we did was consolidate the 2012 reform of the People's Party, instead of repealing it, as it had been. The second point is where there is the government's initiative. I'm here to ask you a question. The question – that I already have the answer clear enough, because I understand that it is already things that the department is doing; therefore, that they put it in a mission to reaffirm or give it certain recourse – is whether to approve this is taken as an obligation or not. I'll explain. This morning this Parliament approved a motion – which was not part of my parliamentary group – around the Olympic Games, and shortly after the responsible department linked to that motion said that, well, what had been approved did not take it as an obligation. So, I'm asking you: is this what we approve of here today if they take it as an obligation like the Department of Business and Work? We would practically vote that yes at all points; in some, we would abstain, and in one, around dual professional training, where it is already known that we are starting from approaches that are absolutely opposed, we would vote against. And we'll abstain from the social dialogue. I'll explain. It seems that ‘social dialogue or consensus' – which sometimes also says when it comes to social dialogue – has become the new fetish word for this new transition. And, at the same time, it has also become a pseudogramscian caricature, justified on the basis of this agreement with which it should be, in part, our enemy or enemy of class, an irreconcilable friend. And I'm also saying this because this social dialogue has also been built and it's built on the exclusion of broad sectors that should be the allies, and it's the Kellys, the migrants, the pepper workers, and a wide range of workers. That is why, at these points, we will abstain, because we understand that, as we see and speak of the social dialogue, it is absolutely circumscribed to a question of representativeness that is not necessarily linked to legitimacy. And, therefore, I should like to address this as well. And finally, although I do not come to school with the young man, let me say a few words that seem to have fallen from some text today: not to war and not to NATO. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.126.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.127.0	MPs, MPs, Constable Torrent... So today we have another naive version of Republican Left. It is, in fact, that they are trying to get themselves to do what we think they already have in the way, or I hope it is because of consistency, but it is still more appropriate – if I may, including naive – to try to introduce a motion to the Parliament of Catalonia to speak or to review the work reform that was decided at the Congress of Deputies. A magic formula to make opposition to distance that carry many times from the Republican Left. In fact, they end up focusing their efforts on labour policy, directly focusing on the labour market, making it, from our point of view, more rigid, more fragmented, more complex, maintaining the duality that supposes to maintain the differences between overprotection, many times, and temporality and vulnerability, many times, and protection, insisting, we believe, in a sealed, waterproof model, which generates authentic barriers and walls in the same labour market. In fact, whenever they bring us these proposals I ask myself the same: who pays for this? - Who's paying for this? It is not possible to work in a correct labour policy by obeying the product texture, giving the skeleton to those who generate occupation. And this, which seems very obvious..., but you think that, as we all know, you manage the Department of Enterprise and Work, you end up oblivious many times from the first part of the business – we believe – and you are centered, in these motions, in the work. And then what we see, then, is that, for example, we see news that Volkswagen's battery plant has gone to Sagunt and in the end could not come to Martorell. Therefore, we believe that balance in working time and taking into account the whole world or the whole fabric of production, together with rights and labour policy... I think it's important. We have defended labour reform – this labour reform that took place in the Congress – from a general view with all the agents who are part of the world of work, and we have said that we are still, for our point of view, far from what we would like, it is true. We want a more dynamic labour market, which can bet on an indefinite one-time contract, with progressive co-payments, with protection like the Austrian word, which already works – which does work – which is personal and guaranteed for the State, which accumulates monthly benefits without losing a job change and uses it when the worker really needs it. It's another model, but this one works. We will vote against these points, the points they have to do with labour reform. We'll be consistent with what we voted for in Congress. They have introduced a nuclear issue for us, as it is, therefore, to focus on the functioning of the work inspection. I think that in this case you face it with a simple increase in resources; this can be a lot or it can be a little bit. We think it's important, and it's urgent because there are no more dramatic cases of Victor Nuño's death in Castellar, for example; that it's a dramatic case; and I know that the counselor knows it – and that we take it... We take very seriously the increase in the number of job inspector seats and the import of inspections as one of the best accident prevention formulas that deliver vital projects in an extremely painful way. Here will always count, the government, with our support. Finally, they have introduced a series of proposals that – I will be forgiven, but they have improved it with their common ideas, Mr Albert –..., a series of proposals on what you do a lot to "keep working, continue working for a transition towards a more equitable and sustainable economy. Beyond the respectable – and I think newly naive – formulation of an objective difficult to deny, I can only say that if they want our support in some way, empathy, including a certain coaching, they can ask us, therefore, in private and there is no problem. But I think we don't have to bring proposals here because you're still working on what you're supposed to be doing – let's hope so. And, therefore, even though some points are difficult to vote against, in some – especially those that they say they are working on, the absurdity of their placement is worth it – we will abstain. All right, all right, Counselor, Deputy Albert, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.128.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.129.0	Now. Yes, thank you, President. Also in a telegraphic way. The truth is that Congressman Jordi Albert has made it very easy for me in the speech. You yourself, when you came out to the rostrum, said that you were presenting this motion so that the PP's labor reform – I quote textually – was left in a non res. And therefore, as you will understand, we do not seek that and are, of course, going to vote against it. Not all points, because it is true that, for example, we agree with the point that talks about allocating more resources to the labour inspection – I think it is absolutely necessary. And, to the surprise of some, we also like some of the amendments that the group of the commons has tabled, which we think improve the text and which are things that we can agree with and that can improve the situation of workers in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.130.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Antònia Batlle's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.131.0	Good afternoon, President. Deputies, deputies, councilors... Catalonia is a territory of working people, where work is the source of wealth, occupation and well-being of our country, building the common denominator of our citizenship – workers, professionals, entrepreneurs, industrialists and autonomists. In the previous plenary we have already had the opportunity to speak, in the motion submitted to the Socialist Party, on the labour market, and in this motion which is presented today for the Republican Left Group, we face the inadequacy of the recently approved labour reform for which it makes the Catalan labour market, as well as the need to help enterprises in the transformation of the strategic sectors, with lines of support from the Action, as well as from the Catalan Institute of Finance. When we talk about the labor market, we need to talk about the level of the weather, the youth, the rate of temporality, among many other questions. First of all, I'd like to talk about what we all care about, which is the unemployment rate. The recently published active population survey highlights that this tax is at 10.2_per_cent, and, conversely to this, fifty-three_per_cent of the human resource heads of companies communicate with us, recognize that they have problems finding personal. It can't be that with these top indexions of time companies have trouble finding qualified personnel, when we also know, for another band, that the talent goes and gets away with alienation. Here we have a problem that needs to be reverted to the maximum in order to be able to improve with the best competitiveness of our country. It is obvious that overcoming the situation of the day and significantly reducing it passes to adapt the offer of job profiles that the market demands, betting also for dual professional training. There are many aspects to work: from the transformation of the SOC to the dignity of work places, on the conditions of these, enter the necessary tools to fight against abuses and fraud, as well as decent wages. As has already been said – and we all agree – policies directed at young and older men and women of forty-five years old, and also, even though some groups here do not agree, we need to talk about the violation of the rights of women, of the wage class, which clearly exposes gender inequality. It is essential to work for decent working conditions – timetables, wages, security, stability – in order to avoid workers who are in conditions of precariousness, violation and discrimination. We are fully in agreement with many of the aspects of the motion and the issues that have also been dealt with: the administrative authority of the labour authority over the dispatches of employment regulations, as well as the gradual increase in the inter-professional minimum wage. It is one of the objectives of Junts for Catalonia, which we have always claimed to place it in the first stage at 1,200_euros per month, aimed at reaching 1,400-1,500, where it is to arrive with an increase of economic growth based on the increase of the added value, thus complimenting the recommendation of the European Social Charter and placing it around the sixty_percent of the average net wage. We must not forget that the business reality, therefore, of our country is formed mostly by small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomous ones, which are some of the best reflections of our country's entrepreneurial capacity. When we talk about peppers, which represent 99,8_percent of the Catalan product fabric, which is not represented in Spain, we are referring to approximately 500,000 people, who represent the seventy_percent of the Catalan economy. Because the importance of defending these companies, according to data collected at Pimec in the year 2019– that obviously end from the pandemic there was a davalada–, almost sixty_percent of the gross value added generated in Catalonia ran at the expense of the peppers, in front of thirty-five_percent of the big companies and 4.8_percent of the public administration. Of the 2,900,000 employees in Catalonia, 2,432,000 are people working in the private sector, while 483,000 work in the public sector. You speak to the young lady, Mr. Albert – and you know that in this we have not been able to accept the transaction they have made – about the recovery of processing wages. These wages already exist, so let's be clear. And to return to these processing salaries, representing seven, eight months, we understand that, with the delay of judicial proceedings, it could mean the closure on behalf of many small businesses. We're talking about cases where the worker is already receiving compensation for his accompaniment. To finish, remember, as we repeat in many other areas, that we need tools of state in order to be able to legislate the Catalan labor market, but in the meantime we have to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. There are no enterprises without workers, but there are no workers without enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.132.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.133.0	All right. Thank you, President. Well, I'll start with the subject of exams. We have accepted items 5, 7, 8 and 9 of the commons, and we have reached a compromise agreement also with the commons for its theme 6. In effect, we consider that they complement and improve the text. Moreover, I have seen that they generate a broad consensus, which I think is good; in politics it is important that we also generate these broad consensuses. Another thing is that I have now begun to worry about this enthusiastic support that has been expressed by the groups of the Liberals, Ciutadans, and the deputy Roldán, of the PP. But in any case, I'm sure from the government's point of view, we'll be able to get over this by going further to the left. Deputy Gallego, I had a good time negotiating with you. In fact, I've had a good time and I have to recognize it: I've learned a lot from you every time I deal with you, because you've got a mess that envyes you, and you've got all my recognition. But we have only managed to reach agreement on that part which the Government urges; on the other hand, we have not managed to reach agreement on that part which touches where you govern; where you govern we have been unable to reach an agreement. But I think we need to keep moving, and we need to keep moving. And this further advance also implies that we have spent two years signifying the signifying said moon, and now you're telling us that we need to just look at the said. And this way Republican Left doesn't happen. Therefore, we must continue to work and we must continue to make folds, because the lefts – the lefts – we will only get out of it if we have the capacity to work together in defense of the working class. And the lefts aren't coming out because this moon we're signifying with the saying that up there isn't the working class, that up there is Elon Musk and all his troops, that they do the duets for so doing. So, Gallego, we need to rethink, and I think we need to keep moving forward. Social dialogue, always respect; now, social dialogue – social dialogue – always respect; parliamentary debate, always respect. And you didn't do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.134.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the twenty-sixth item on the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies, guarantee of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defence of housing]] [[302-00100/13]] Let's move on to twenty-five points of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the policies of housing, guarantee of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defense of housing, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.135.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. To go face-to-face, but not to forget where we came from and where we see this: remember that we now have a twenty-and-a-nine-per-cent population in Catalonia with severe poverty, that housing is one of the fundamental elements to reduce this risk of poverty and social exclusion. At the same time we find ourselves with a dozen daily, mid-day denunciations during 2021 – more than seven thousand. And, plus, as contrastingly, we find that the deus major owners of Catalonia have 25,000 floors of lloger. From this point on, I believe that it has been found and it has been found, before this situation, that the institutions in any case have been on the rise, and that neither the institutions of the State nor the Government of the State have been, with ghost moratoria, supposed proposals of housing law that we believe are a fraud, no derogation from the law bites or details and constant impediments on the part of the judiciary to the law itself intended to make in Catalonia to advance. At the same time we also think that the Catalan institutions have not been on the rise either. We think that the law of 2007 – and we have said it on repeated occasions, the Vinyets company – has not been properly deployed, and we think that insufficient presupposed efforts are being made and there is not enough will to make a structural transformation change and guarantee the right to a habitation. Given this situation in which institutions are years old about guaranteeing this right to housing, we believe that it is at the very least at the expense of the housing movement, that organized movement which is, today, with greater effectiveness, provides, guarantees and fights day by day in order to maintain these habitats to vulnerable families and people who do not have a housing alternative. And, before that, as we have already stated in the previous plenary, it seems absolutely intolerable to us that only institutions are not performing their functions to guarantee the right to a decent habitat, that it is not only not at the side of the habitation movement, but, moreover, it is repressed and retaliated. We think that the least, since the institutions are not complete with their functions and their obligations, is not to make it harder for those who are left on a daily basis to guarantee this right to housing. That's why we're presenting this young man with basically three parts. One, in which we ask Parliament to give support to this movement for housing and which, therefore, stands at the side of the movement in defense for housing and stands face to face and rejects the repression that is being painted. A second block that talks about demands to the government. It seems to us to be absolutely fundamental that, while Parliament is at the side of the housing movement, the Government is beginning to take firm steps to ensure this right to housing and, while at the same time, at a higher level, as a minimum, it is not making it more difficult to engage in the housing defence movement, and on the basis of these key issues that we have already carried out on repeated occasions: to halt the involvement of anti-disturbing agents in the denunciations of vulnerable families; to halt the persecution of activists against the housing movement, through the investigation of these, through detentions without judicial order, etcetera, and, finally, not to apply in any case the law bitten in mobilizations. A third element that also contains this young man and that seems to be relevant to us is that which refers to the need to repeal the biting law. We think it is essential that the State, that the Government of the State, that the Socialist Party and that the commons, or We can, to the State, that they are part of this Government, of a time derogating this law. This is a compromise that they made and that, like so many others, they have not fulfilled. And when we talk about repealing we're not talking about reforms, we're not talking about small transformations that decapitate these changes and that, besides, we're not just decapitating, we're just understanding the march of the right, which is who applied them. We're not talking about repealing the part that you say you can't tax police in the street, which the Constitutional Court has already said, which you can do; we're not talking about reducing penalties, it's that there must be no sanctions to manifest to you; we're not talking about making exceptions to prohibitions, but we're talking about repealing it. And from here, we believe that it is important, that it is a fundamental compromise to stand at the side of the movement in defense of the habitat, since the institutions are not on the rise, and to ensure that they can, as a minimum, continue to do this job of providing a habitat worthy of vulnerable families. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.136.0	It has the word now, for the defense of the papers presented, on behalf of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mrs Marta Madrenas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.137.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very nice late. Benvolgut Councillor Elena, fellow Members and Deputies... This is a young man who presents us with the companion and deputy Pellicer, on behalf of the CUP, which in fact has a part or various parts quite declarative, some more of the grounding. In fact, we have proposed a series... together with Esquerra, we have proposed a series of exhibitions. Finally, we have only been able to trade a portion of these items. That is why, therefore, we cannot give full support to all the points of this motion proposed to us. In this regard, I call on the Presidency to take account of the fact that together we shall call for a separate vote. It can be two blocks; the 1 to 5_point has to be one block, and from 6 onwards it can be another block. This young man, actually, I would turn around to say... you said around three concepts, I might say two: one, of housing emergency, much smaller; the other, respect security and police devices, I would say much wider. Both of us are deeply concerned about the situation in Junts because we want a country where human dignity is absolutely inviolable, respected and protected. On the issue of housing emergence, you simply ask us to reject denunciations to vulnerable families. We, respect this subject – now I will mention it – would need some matis, which they have not done. On the subject of security, they ask us to reject police practices, effectively implementing what is foreseen in the law respecting social mobilizations. I am referring to the first issue, which concerns the denunciations of vulnerable families. Together we are intensely compromised with protection in all areas, also in that of universal access to the right to housing, from all the citizens of Catalonia and, therefore, we feel absolutely called upon to age because any family can have a housing remedy. But, unlike you, the morning is what we might have been pale when we approved the law of housing emergency, in which we believe that this balance also has to be found with private property. I will refer to an example, which I believe all the Members of this House have received a letter and, if not, we may only have been Juntes's, precisely because I assume that it is self-identifying with this sensitivity that it respects to find this balance of protection of the people, but also preservation of private property, in which a child refers to her mother, already great, who did a year that was trying to make a denunciation of a habitat, that was the only habitat that had this lady and that was clearly precarious because she could not pull this denunciation away. So, Junts per Catalunya, in the background, do we agree that there are no charges in favour of vulnerable families? It is clear, but with nuance, as the case I have just explained, that we would certainly agree that perhaps it is not just that it is not possible to pull forward, so, in this case, this act of denunciation and recovery of possession. That is why, in theory, we can support it, but know that our thinking – and what we think – is this and that things are going to work with more subtle, not as thick as you do, but it may be more likely to put certain traces further down. On the most police issue, absolutely agree to repeal the law bite. In fact, I believe that we will all remember when it was approved with the PP's only favourable vote, even though the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations at that time asked all the groups of Congress to vote against it, bearing in mind that the new law of Spain is sending us worryingly to the dark days of the Franco regime and that there is no place for a democratic nation. That was literally what the rapporteur for the United Nations said. Therefore, I understand that everyone we consider to be democrats should agree that this law must immediately be repealed. Moreover, it is what they demand, therefore, not only the international bodies that defend the most important human rights, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, but also the journalists' unions, which are seen every day badly damaged when there are social demands and which cannot develop their work with complete freedom. Therefore, in this sense, obviously, we would also give our support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.138.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.139.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs... companies and companies of the CUP, frankly, the first one that came to me when I read the motion is that we were talking about the last legislature. And I think it's really not good, if we share analytics, if we want to solve problems and challenges – and I think, therefore, that it is really that way – that we continue to act as if we haven't been through these months, as if we haven't been producing changes since the Interior Council, that, on the other hand, we also share that they are changes that have to go further and that are beginning to change. What we can say, for this reason, today is that mediation has been prioritized, that it is working in our protocols following the commitments of the investment agreement respecting the denunciations, which is what it is that it gives, in order to avoid this intervention of anti-valves in denunciations of vulnerable families. Changes have also been made in the identification of ARROs. It has not been two days since the criteria for the non-application of the law to this conflict, between a repressive law and a number of fundamental rights, which are also law, have been announced, and here what we have to do is guarantee the fundamental rights. I, of course, are calling for structural changes. And that's why we also have a police model study board. On the other hand, we also believe that the problem of denunciations is not so lonely and only on D-day, that we have to take it from behind, that we have to take it from behind social inequalities. And I think that we share that, because we just approved of the respect yesterday, so the first proposal for the law of this legislature that attacks this issue. But, in a different way, what we do have news about today..., and our papers have also been on the line to actually put the focus in which they are responsible, also and largely, for the housing emergency. We have news that the real adversary, the Spanish State, the judiciary..., today, just now, it has been made public that the Constitutional Court has fallen much of Decree 37/2020, a decree that prevented judicial proceedings during confinement, during the health emergency. That's what the Constitutional Court just dropped right now, and here's where we need to focus, on the real opponent. Just as, at the very least – and at the very least – we have to demand pleas to remove those terms of the law that sanction peaceful demonstrations, where the police bodies, in effect, are seized by a large number of people exercising their right to peaceful demonstration. The Interior Council is looking for a way to resolve the conflict, but it would be much easier if the most progressive government of history complemented with its signed commitments. Because – and we also have to say – there are some court orders, and we can't ignore them as if they don't exist, because, if not, we won't really be solving the problem, which is what we need to do that we want to transform. In short, we share objectives, we are in the common strategic framework to guarantee the right to housing and to put forward civil and political rights. I think we'll find each other every step of the way. Even though the steps they are taking are not as long or as fast as we both would like, we will find ourselves in the steps that, above all, remain firm and do not cause us to truncate in the guarantee of rights, and that, in any case, amplify them. In short, companies and companies of the CUP, when you and we do not agree to transform, who wins – and, sadly, I think we will see it today – are those who say to defend the empire of order, but in reality, the one who defends is the order of the empire. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.140.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.141.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth saying that, in the first place, this young man puts the saying to the plague on a sensitive subject, that he asks all of us without exception, from one end of the hemisphere to the other, that it is the whole housing crisis, particularly the one affecting vulnerable families. And this is one aspect, I insist, that you ask us all absolutely. Before that, the parliamentary group that I now see, Socialists and Forward Units, has given support to the law that was approved yesterday in this Parliament, which went in this direction. He even made some points that were not accepted, that were focused on a matter of occupations with a plural look, and he was willing to make a lot of parliamentary initiatives. But this young man – this young man – puts in particular the magnifying glass, the attention, in the performance of the police before these facts. And, in a very timid way, the Member of Parliament, Morales, now said: "Escoltin, we can't make it clear that we are talking about the judicial police, which, as his name indicates, acts at institutions and at the warrant, say, of the judicial authorities, right? And so, in this sense, we, man, are already saying that we will not support this young man, nor will we just abstain, which I have understood from the interventions of the groups that support the government and before which we are tremendously critical. The other day, to the Commission of Study on the Police Model, the Jaume Bosch – people suspected, who would say you, counselor, to be a man of the ultrathreat, liberal and others – said to us: "We cannot pass to the Mossos where politics has not been able to resolve. In other words, Mrs Madrenas said so, didn't she? And it is not D-day that worries – which also obviously – but all the precedents and weaknesses of the policy that there is, of the policies, of the different administrations – of all, without exception – to be able to guarantee that it is also a fundamental right, housing. But to put the focus on the police and, if I haven't got it wrong, to try to approve all that is the diagnosis of agreement with the mandates of the CUP, but then to refuse and to abstain from all that is the mandate, it seems to us – and I will make it very clear – an authentic grip of hair. And they do, counselor – I'm not absolutely convinced – because they know that we will act responsibly. If we took the attitude of the groups supporting the Government in this respect, a mandate would prove to be one that you could not face. I'd have to sort it out. If this is approved in these terms – and it will not be approved because we will vote against it, not because the government groups commit to it – you should choose whether to complete the mandate of Parliament or serve the judicial mandate. And that's a very serious issue. And it seems extremely worrying to us that, on such an important and sensitive issue as this, forgiveness, the governing groups do not have an opinion. Abstention is not worth – abstention is not worth. It is not possible to vote in favour of rejecting the denunciations of vulnerable families with the participation of the anti-disturbing units, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, abstaining from the point you say: "Stop immediately the denunciations of vulnerable families with the participation of the Mossos in these. We cannot vote in favour of rejecting the investigation of activists and then refusing to reject immediately.... This is cheating. To yourselves, but at the same time as public opinion. And we, in this sense, are responsible. When we went to introduce you to what you sometimes did very thanks to the alternate government, I remember Salvador Illa, who said: « Listen, an alternate government is the one that is able to protest – and in fact, at this time, also in fem– « and also to make proposals, but to act responsibly. And acting responsibly is to say: "Listen, we have a judicial police that is subject to the judicial warrant. That's what his name says. And it's cost us a lot. I refer another time to the words of the Bosch Jaume. What we can't do is play hands here. And, listen, so, how someone's already gonna help us and how they only put two groups down, they're gonna support this, and let's move on. That's not good – that's not good. I'm not counting on us. And before, in a nice way, he said: "I know that you will fall for it, that. If it is about the fact that we are consistent with what we have defended..., that you can do frivolity – forgive me for saying so – to abstain and not to vote against in the other aspect. Because, if not, if we did the same thing, you would have a serious problem. They're not underage people. You either serve the mandate of Parliament or serve the court. And with you also have the conjunction of Squad moss, who do their job. And, as Jaume Bosch told us, there was neither for profit nor for... there were because they are professional, because they fulfill what you say the legal mark, because they fulfill what you say the judgments. The judge is the authority, and the police, so he's the agent of the authority, as his name indicates. It's a judge's execution arm. « With images that do not please us. I don't like them either. But in any case, we claim responsibility. And we're running it here voting against this young man, because we think we can't put the police in this weave. And we ask you to reconsider, the groups that support the government, the feeling of their vote. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.142.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Sergio Macián, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.143.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the CUP is a radical, revolutionary, separatist, anti-system leftist party linked to the former terrorist organization Terra Lliure; a party that has included terrorists, such as Mr Carles Sastre, in its electoral lists, sentenced to 30 years in prison for the murder of Catalan businessman Josep Maria Bultó in 1977. The CUP is a party that carries on its electoral program nationalizing companies, not paying public debt or collecting private property. The CUP is a party that publicly advocates the expropriation of the empty housing park of Catalonia or even the expropriation of the cathedral of Barcelona, as its deputies have expressed in different appearances and press conferences; a majaderia, with all due respect, only equivalent to wanting to raise children in tribes, as in its day proclaimed the former deputy and escaped Anna Gabriel. This is the CUP's impressive presentation letter, and these are its prescriptions for housing policies: occupation and expropriation. That is why this motion has little to do with social housing policies or vulnerable families. This motion is from radical activists, from their radical activists. Of the nine points contained in the motion, seven relate to anti-system activists and to calling for the non-application of different aspects of the law on the protection of citizens' security, which is what you are actually concerned about: protecting the violent and unprotecting the police. Because what they are pursuing with this motion is that its activists, belonging to organizations and platforms led in many cases by the extreme left and by anti-system groups, can exercise unhindered illegal occupation and violence against law enforcement officials. Therefore, in the face of his proposals to whitewash radical activists, since VOX we have proposed five measures that do have to do with housing policies. The first to have the obligation to give effect to the right to housing worthy of vulnerable persons is the Generalitat. You irresponsibly intend to move this obligation behind the backs of individuals, encouraging the occupation of housing and expropriation. Two. Respect for private property. The private property of the Spaniards, earned with effort, work and sweat, is sacred. Don't criminalize the owners. Third. Zero tolerance for illegal occupation. Illegal occupation is a crime that you support, freeze and subsidize with Okupa movements and their occupation manuals. More than ninety per cent of the housing stock in Spain belongs to middle-class and popular families, and efforts must be made to protect those families who save and invest, and not those who benefit illegally from the efforts of others and from permissive legislation with illegal occupation. Fourth. Effective public and social housing policies with real resources. These policies that the Generalitat has not done for forty years, more concerned to allocate public money to divide Catalans and to promote its project of rupture with Spain. Policies that must be fiscal and security stimulus for owners to take out their rented homes. Policies for the construction and rehabilitation of public social housing, from two per cent to fifteen per cent of the European average. Public policies, in short, to guarantee Catalans a home in which they can develop their vital project and form a family, if they wish. Thursday. Total support to the Mossos d'Esquadra to comply with any court order [[some applause]] in front of its anti-system activists, who are dedicated..., in front of the anti-system activists, who are dedicated to preventing compliance with judicial decisions, to coercing neighbors and assaulting the Mossos d'Esquadra. For this reason, in VOX, we are in the antipodes of its radical left-wing trembling policies, policies of expropriation, policies of promotion of occupation and of support to radical activists. Therefore, in VOX we bet on policies of respect for private property; policies to combat illegal occupation, which robs humble people thousands of hours of work that they have invested to be able to save, acquire a property and be able to pay for a house, and policies to allocate the budgetary resources that are necessary to the real and urgent needs of Catalans, and the first of them, which is to guarantee them a right to decent housing. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.144.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.145.0	Yes; thank you very much. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... MP Pau Morales said that we seem to be having a debate in the past legislature, and I think he is very right, because since the past legislature, honestly, there have also been a lot of changes in this subject, despite all the times that in this House, or the Commission of the Interior, or sometimes the Committee of Territories, in its time... when we talk about the denunciations it was talking about the participation of the Mossos in the denunciations. I think that just trying to simplify, as is being done also by those who are against this young man, so neither does it help. No one's saying the Mosses don't have to make a paper when there's a security problem. Therefore, no one is saying that in the case of a denunciation, because there is a situation of conflict and of a criminal activity, such as that lived the month of disembarkation on the Piquer street of the Poble-sec, there is no need for a forceful police action. In fact, a thorough investigation, which is what we ask, that there are more resources to investigate occupations with criminal intent. Security must be guaranteed to the veins and the veins. What we always say is that that's exactly why we don't get into the criminalization of occupations and the simplification of occupations. And what this young man is talking about is, all the time, families in a vulnerable situation. And of the denunciations of families in vulnerable situations, which, moreover, we have seen scenes recorded in video of clear collaboration between the Mossos and the Mafias enterprises of illegal unemployment, such as Desokupa; there are vans of Mossos, six and seven vans of Mossos, all anti-disturbing there facing and going to dislodge a family. So, honestly, we don't think what the insecurity situation is that justifies this size and size of the intervention. And that's what you've been talking about for a long time in this Parliament, and that's what you haven't given an answer to. In fact, the Committee on the Interior has already approved another motion for a resolution tabled by our group which actually defended the need for a protocol to be made as clear as the intervention of the Mossos in cases of denunciation. This protocol has also been spoken of for a long time and is not moving forward. There's no way it's moving forward, there's no way it's working. Therefore, let's move forward so that there is this protocol that defines which should be the intervention of the safety nets in cases of denunciation. But not only that; also what worries us is that when there is a denunciation, the only presence there is of the Generality, the only contact the vulnerable family has had denunciated throughout the process of denunciation has been when the Mossos arrive to knock the door. There has to be a pre-emptive follow-up, there has to be a pre-emptive mediation capability. The motion for a resolution, which was also approved, refers to the ability of the Mosos to ascertain the situation of vulnerability of these families and to adapt the protocol to the situation of vulnerability of families. We also voted for the last legislature that did not act the anti-disturbing when there were minors among the house. The governing groups, like at least Junts per Catalunya, voted against it. Is that a family with minors and having anti-disturbing activity at the door giving shots and breaking a door? "Really? And that's what we want to justify? Isn't there another way to do things? The increase in complaints to movement activists for housing. I'm telling you, from here on out: we've compromised that it's derogatory and that it's work because it's the end of the persecution of activists, and that's why we're working. And he's working, and you know it. And what we're asking of the groups in Congress is that they don't do as much as they do on other issues and engage in the negotiation of this issue and the change in this topic, because they also know who the majority are and what is to work and what is to be achieved in order to make this change. I have told you many times: if we had a majority and a correlation of forces different from the Congress, other things would be seen in this legislature. But what we can't do is also make it clear that for some time now there has been a certain strategy of the Mosos to use the biting law to criminalise and prosecute the housing movement activists, because the biting law has been in place since 2015, and these many are not posing since 2015, they are posing themselves from six or seven months ago, a maximum year, which is when it is reported that there has been a change in the strategy of the Mosos in time to identify and report and fine the people who are participating in the disclaimers. And that came to say Iridia, and they're all here at the police model board. I mean, it's fine to hear Mr. Jaume Bosch, and obviously, I'm not the one who's carrying his control, but we can also feel Iridia, who was also there and who also talked about how the criminalizing Mosses were acting. What happens is that here, as always and as we have seen in other questions, the experts, the ones we are interested in, not everyone who tells us that we would not like. We – I suppose it's no secret either – will actually vote in favour of the motion. We believe that things need to be laid out clearly and forcefully, and we believe that the Generality has to bet on mediating from a social rather than a police focus. What they can't do is delegate mediation skills to the Mossos either in cases of denunciation. Mediation, in case of denunciation, is not a competition of the Mossos, it is of the Catalan Agency of Habitatage, which is who has to act. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.146.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.147.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... The motion presented to us by the CUP follows the usual lines of its populist approaches, making a poti-poti with the housing policy– which certainly does not appear at all in the motion–, the guarantee that you want to make believe that you are right– always ask to guarantee the same ones, leaving it in the band of others that you are truly fully recognized for the democratic order–, the denunciations– here from time to time do some things– and what you call the persecution of groups around you who are supposed to defend the housing, which is in fact a challenge to the most basic democratic rules of coexistence. As is also customary, this populist rhetoric is seen in a complacent way by the two parliamentary groups of the Government, as it is easy to see in the papers they have presented. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we do not share the vision of the original or the nuances that they have wanted to introduce from the government with their reviews. The first question we want to make clear is that, while including in the title the expression 'habitat policies, this young man does not speak of it in absolute terms. The right to housing, contemplated in our democratic order as a guiding principle of public policies, is not the object of this young man. In this young man there is no mention of the public policies needed to ensure access to a decent habitat, beyond a rhetorical settlement in the young man's initial motius presentation. Nor is there any talk of public policies that allow us to fight the poor properly. Introducing is about the rise of the severe poor, but only to indicate that access to housing is a key factor in giving it a response. Not to mention, political measures to generate economic and social conditions that effectively reverse this poor woman are growing. Because both questions – the right to access housing, which must be guaranteed by public housing policies on the part of the return governments, and the vulnerability attached to the extreme poor – are only the perfect alibi for presenting a motion that speaks, above all, of how to condition the pocket of the Squad Mosso in the appointments by court order and how to achieve impunity for self-identifying activists, who are attached to the political and ideological scope of the CUP. That's what the young lady is talking about, and that's what, with the papers she presents, makes her own the government of the generality. The Government of the Generality, once more, plays the game of extreme left-wing populism. Counselor, nothing new under the sun. This young man's rhetoric is common to the extreme left and – which we have also seen often – government groups have done. They have a small parany that seems to fit into the realm of social justice– in this case, they speak of the introduction of severe poverty and, all the while following, in the motion, the denunciations of vulnerable families– to charge against the police, criminalize the anti-frauds, who do nothing more than complete with their public security functions under the government mandate or the jurisdictional mandate, and, all the while, enter into the background of the issue. And the essence of the issue is nothing other than the defence attached to the groups around it, the CUP, who intervene even with rape clubs when they produce denunciations ordered by the judicial authority. This is the essence of the issue: seeking impunity for the self-appointed group's activists, the activity of which is no other than to serve the political interests of the proposed group. Therefore, in the opinion of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, this young man is a handy man with whom the defense attached to the satellite groups of the CUP is diffused. To entertain the attention on the main, on this defense clinging to the people of its surroundings, the CUP – as also do the governing groups or as we have also seen that they often do from the Group of Common We can – place them in the amanida the salt of the extreme poor, the vinegar of vulnerable families and the oil of the Organic Law 4/2015, protecting the citizen's security, which, rhetorically, name the law bite. By placing these three ingredients in the youth, they have the bar of rhetorical concepts to which we are accustomed; they have enough so that there are groups, even of government, that they follow. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if there are groups around the CUP that are under the magnifying glass of the agents of the Central Unit of Investigation of Violent Extremes, it is certainly because they fit in the typology, that they are extremists and, above all, that they are violent. It is clear, therefore, that we will not support this young man at his fingertips. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, don't trade with moray wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.148.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.149.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that we clearly neither share the model nor share the story. You guys know that a lot. And, of course, we are not going to participate, as we have said on many occasions, in that attempt at criminalization that you make of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra. You and your fellow commoners. It's absolutely embarrassing, what you come and say here. And to Mr. Pellicer I told you one day: it is very easy to speak, it is very easy to make innuendos, it is very easy to accuse the Mossos d'Esquadra when you are protected by the immunity that gives you your seat. Then, if you are so brave, renounce that immunity – I told you once – and all these unfounded accusations that you pour on the Mossos d'Esquadra repeats those without being you, therefore, protected by that immunity. Because you come to say true barbarities of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And, taking advantage of the fact that Councillor Elena is here, I will make a request to her: protect her agents, defend those of this story that tries to criminalize those, who every day tries to question the work of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra, who, again insist, play their lives to protect us all, also the lords of the CUP and also the lords of the commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.150.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.151.0	Well, thank you. MPs, MPs... see if I get to everything I've written down. Miri, Mr. Alonso, if you want to know about the CUP's housing policies, you can ask your right-wing friends for points, which I believe they have not made a great summary before. Apart from jokes, the following week or week, in the very Ple, we can talk about the dramatic situation of the denouncements and the situation of housing respect social rights, for which we have also presented an inquiry and a motion. Because, when we ask the government about housing policies, we ask the government about the interior, about social rights and about the territory. And when we say the government isn't up, we're talking about the whole government. Today we're talking about a series of people who are guaranteeing the right to housing when they can't do it or when they don't want to do institutions and they don't have to be chased. But I think that on repeated occasions we have come to talk about housing policies, and in the proper ones we can talk about social rights and the wrong focus that is also in the area of social rights. That said, well, Mr. Morales, Mrs. Madrenas, we already know that we can't expect anything from the State, but for us this can't be an excuse in any case – this can't be an excuse in any case. And we have already told them to the principles of the legislature: to advance in the guarantee of rights, like the right to a decent habitat, we are at the side of the government. What's going on? That we don't think it's happened enough or with the most uncertain focus. We cannot rely entirely on a protocol which, ultimately, relies on another court, which has no interest in applying it and which, moreover, does not only have no interest in applying it, but rather extends the hours of denunciation. We will build a proper way to guarantee the right to a decent habitat, because we believe that we have margin. We have not spoken on repeated occasions, we will try to keep talking about it, but remember the doctrine of the national court for what it does to the parties of the U of October and how anti-disturbing was not used to dislodge people who were in electoral colleges despite the fact that there were court orders. Thank you. I'm running out of time, excuse me. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.152.0	Thank you very much. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will take a long time to get the point we're starting. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into Catalan language in the university and research system]] [[302-0002/13]] The twenty-sixth item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the Catalan language in the university and research system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. You have the word to expose it to Congresswoman Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.153.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Today from Junts to Catalonia we present a motion, the last motion of this House, we consider transcendental for the day. I would like to take back the words, in fact, of Constellera Geis in the previous question to this young man, who was, therefore, the deputy Glòria Freixa, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and in which the Constellera quoted that if in any place she heard of Catalan language, it is precisely here, to her of the sovereignty of the Catalan people. And today I would like to add to these words that if somewhere it is important to add support in defense of the language and in the impulse of the catalá is here, in the Parliament of Catalonia. This is, therefore, the main objective, to give a boost to the Catalan reinforcement plan, presented to the Research and University Department the past month of generation in a day that asked and in which all the agents of the knowledge system, from the Rectors, from the directors of the research centres, were able to participate, but obviously also the student associations and cultural entities. In short, a day that meant a point of inflection for two very basic and very phonental movements. On the one hand, because of the meaning that the knowledge system holds an alliance with the Government to develop this plan, on the other hand, because, for the first time, the challenge is to strengthen our language and to do so rigorously and from a diagnosis. And, what does this diagnosis say? What does this analysis say that ended on linguistic uses? So, well, the data indicates that the català continues to feel the majority teaching language of the degrees, but as there is still room for improvement and, especially, for what it does to masters and doctoral theses. I in us can conform. A minority language and threatened as is ours today, the català, does not understand or can hear of any type of conformism. And it cannot be done before the threats, as you all know, of a judicial power where the catal is non-existent; of a court that claims to impose the twenty-five percent of the castle on the classrooms; of a law of the audiovisual that does not protect the catal; of a Spanish congress, but also of a European parliament where our representatives, their deputies and deputies, cannot express themselves in the language of their voters, and, even harder, before the threat that they embody some parties that make our language serve as a weapon and instrumentalizing, obviously, politics. Given this context, we have the responsibility to act and to set aside this Catalan reinforcement plan with the resources that we approved in the 2022 budget, with this item of EUR 1.6 million, but also with other initiatives that the Government of the Generality has initiated, such as the Aina project or the debates of the conference on the future of Europe, with the success of the demand for the official status of Catalonia to the European institutions. From Juntes per Catalunya it is therefore a priority to shield the català and present this motion, noting that it can be guaranteed and done in all areas of knowledge, from the normalization of the scientific, cultural, but also social use, and at the same time recognize the role of the university research system in the preservation and academic world of language. To do so, moreover, by supporting the Government, by pushing these necessary and momentary measures, in the framework of this Catalan reinforcement plan, to make use of our language, its own, in the Catalan universities, but also by guaranteeing the linguistic rights of the whole community and by creating some of the known violations or which we have had to know for a long time by different channels. To improve, therefore, the linguistic skills and to increase its use on research, on the transfer of knowledge, obviously also on dissemination and, of course, to strengthen relations with the Catalan speaking territories. In short, putting the Government's focus on linguistic policy in the field of knowledge, because we are fully aware that protecting and strengthening a language does not threaten absolutely any other language or generate divisions, but it is all the contrary: it promotes plurality, it promotes wealth, it promotes linguistic learning. And just this week, which we celebrated International Day of Mother Language – in my case the castle, the daughter of Andalusians who with their surnames showed it: Toronjo Nofuentes –, I want to claim more than ever the transmission and preservation of each of the languages of the world, especially those who are today most threatened, such as Catalan. And allow me to end up, President, with a later reference, with a few words and that I would like us to celebrate. They are from Joan Solà, who says: "A language cannot be worthy and can be maintained if the one who speaks it does not see it with dignity and trust and if the people who have it with their heritage are not free, but see it subjugated, like us, for centuries, to a state that has always wanted to be hostile to us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.154.0	Thank you very much. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.155.0	Thank you, President. Well, I want to take advantage of this motion in which we talk about Catalan in university, in short, we talk about university matter to, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens and in my own name, send a hug, all our support to the young people of S'Ha Afinat! , that yesterday again suffered violence, the aggressiveness of totalitarian youths who have a conception of democracy and freedom of expression of the most peculiar. The images we have seen regarding the episode suffered by the young people of S'Ha Afinet! They are absolutely unacceptable, they are repugnant, they are absolutely intolerable in a democratic regime. Yesterday I saw young people who were literally expelled from the public square of Pompeu Fabra University; I saw a professor, Mariano Torcal, professor of political science, pushed, vamped by young students who expelled him from there to the cry of "fascist, out of university, exactly as teachers of the Pompeu Fabra – not only students, teachers of the Pompeu Fabra – also insulted the young people of S'Ha Afinat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Really, it's not the Catalonia that some of us want. This is not the Catalonia that some of us want. It's not the Catalonia I want to leave my children. When the young people of S'Ha Afinat! By the way, it was a space where there were tents from different university associations. All of them were able to express their opinion without any problem and the only one that was attacked was precisely the tent of S'Ha Afinet! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For something it will be. And it seems that violence always comes from the side of some, and those who suffer from it are always the same. In this case, the young people of S'Ha Afinat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He said, when the young people of S'Ha Finat! They manifest themselves, when the young people of S'Ha Afinat! They put a tent, they do it in defense of the freedom of all, in defense of the freedom of all citizens. They also do so in defense of the freedom of our children, of the university students of tomorrow, of those who in a few years' time will be attending university studies and who do not have to endure the insults, the insults, the contempt of their colleagues. Really, let's make an effort among all of us so that that Catalonia that was seen yesterday at Pompeu Fabra will not be seen again. When Mrs. Sabater of the CUP says that yesterday she was expelled to Fascism of Pompeu Fabra University, really, Mrs. Sabater, does not seem ridiculous, does not seem an absolute disproportion to present the young people of S'Ha Finat! Like fascists? Do you not realize how ridiculous they are? I, for real, make crosses in the face of such nonsense. That said, we speak, once again, of Catalan in university. Look, Madam Spokesman, in this case Toronjo [[the speaker highlights the pronunciation in Catalan]] , the Toronjo [[the orator highlights the pronunciation in castle]] , from Junts per Catalunya. For us, Catalan teaching must be present, of course, in schools, in schools. We believe that upon reaching university, Catalan, like Spanish, must be a language dominated by all students. We do not believe that we should accept that claim to impose Catalan in an all-embracing manner. It seems to us essential that Catalan has its space, as it seems to us essential that Castilian has its space, both in school and in university education. It is a common sense: a society with two languages must give space to both. I think I mentioned a few weeks ago in this Parliament an author named Amin Maalouf, who was saying a phrase that seems to me very..., very cautious, that we would say in Catalan. And it is that... "If one whose language I am learning does not respect mine, then speaking his tongue ceases to be an act of openness and becomes an act of vassal and submission. I, among the nationalist ranks, see an extremely aggressive, extremely derogatory or contemptive attitude towards Spanish-speaking speakers in Catalonia. And that's why I'm surprised that there are people who call themselves the Spanish-speaking family who defend, with all the rights of the world and in my opinion also with all the reason of the world, the continuity, the preservation of the Catalan language as a collective heritage of the Spanish people as a whole – is something that I always defend and will defend – but I cannot understand that they do not in turn defend the right of the Spanish-speaking children to be educated also in their mother tongue. That, for what it does to school education, and also, of course, for what it has to do with university education. It is simply a matter of seeking policies that are respectful of Catalonia's linguistic pluralism, that are respectful of the linguistic reality of our community and, ultimately, that are respectful of freedom and democracy. It is not much to ask, and that is what we demand, both to the public authorities in Catalonia and in Spain as a whole: respect for all, simply. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.156.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.157.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, he will advise... well, we find ourselves in front of a young man who... you know, because we presented papers to him, and in any case, we appreciate the opportunity to have them traded, and that, finally, we would vote for them, we would vote for all the points in favour. But she's a young lady that we, on the way in, found flowing, in the sense that she was vague, right? They were very broad objectives, which were not concrete and which until now, when it was exposed, said: "No, the catalá is a majority. No, our knowledge is not this; that is, there are universities where català is already residual to classrooms and where making a degree in català is practically impossible. So, we, in this sense..., so we also appreciate the fact that you've accepted the papers and that we've been able to make a deal. You will find yourself at the side to work with this reinforcement plan, which is essential that it is developed, because the Catalan language in the university and research system really has the level that it touches, and that it must be taken into account that, from the beginning of the 2003 law, the standard to the 2003 law leaves the català where it has to be..., so then it turns out that this law has not met its objectives, because these things do not happen either by magic or in a way..., on the contrary, no? , if we leave it to the natural system, at a time of..., with depredation, with the system of linguistic neoliberalism that we are living, and with the political parties that are expressly making laws and are pushing measures to go against that català reixi, we will not get out of it. Therefore, this law must be accompanied by resources, concrete programmes to develop tools of follow-up and constant appreciation, and, if not, would serve no purpose. You say you don't. Miri, you... you've come out a lot of Pompeu Fabra University today. You, lords of Ciutadans, also say..., have gone there, have gone there to support the « syringuitos of these young people who in the background are going to provoke to search for the photo to make the victims. But, wow, this claim – this claim – for "fire us classes in català, so, it's a claim that I have never felt done to you. Catalan speakers, the people who study in Catalan, have not respected their rights. Or, assignments that are programmed in Catalan change language to the minimum. Graus... scientific publication. Do you know that people who do research, who do research, can't publish in Catalan? That's serious! This is serious and it's happening. Therefore, we note that, even though you do not say anything about it, verbally or judicially, even though you offer yourself as great language advocates, you must know that the castle at these times is camping and climbing the rights of Catalan speakers at the time of making its classes at the university. And so that's something we can't afford, and we don't go to college to make chicks, but we're really going to listen to the students, which is which are the problems they have and to solve it in a concrete way. And, therefore, this young man, who has the assumption, that the plan is deployed and that it can be done. I had taken the dice... which they say here, didn't I? The Pompeu Fabra does not top up or fifty_per_cent of the classes in català. In fact, on the 23rd there is a vacancy, there is a call for a vacancy against the application of the twenty-and-five-per-cent sentence, but there will also be many universities to claim that the català, once and for all, ceased to be the tool with which the parties that want us to cease to exist, so they are in a fleshly way working because the català disappears from the teaching and also disappears from the universities. We vote in favour of all points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.158.0	Thank you very much. And then, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.159.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, deputies and deputies. That goes so far as to say that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of all points and we will abstain from one that has been dealt with by the UPC. I am saying this because from now on we will vote in favour, and it is clear to us. But it is said a few things in this Parliament that I, really, honestly, find that sometimes we should listen two and three times, huh? Miri, there is a study done by the university council that says that at these times 70.5_percent of the degrees of the universities are divided into català– 70.5_percent of the degrees are divided into català–, in which we have fifty-five complaints with heavy problems– fifty-five– ; there are 216,000 students in Catalonia – fifty-five. He recognized the same Director General Five that is less than a 0.1_per_cent. Is there a need to improve the... Is that it, the role of català at the university? So yes, let's do it, let's push it, let's potential it, and as long as it does, it would just be missing. We voted in favour. But let us not lose sight of one thing: to favor the català or to push the català cannot go against the castle or against the English. Here are some university professors. Why is one of the challenges that university has is the attraction of talent; if we do everything in català against the other languages, against the other languages, some officials, of what knowledge are we talking about? Honestly, we're making a very small country. Do we have to protect the català? And as long as it is. EscoltiScoltiel PSC is in the language pact. That the language pact, with as much consent as possible, works towards where we need to improve in català, because one of the problems we have with català is social use, it's in social use, not at school, where our infants come from a good level of català as castella. It's probably not at the university, where 70.5_percent of the degrees are in Catalan and, in addition, we only have fifty-five complaints from 216,000 students. The problem is another one. And, therefore, very good idea of the Government of the Generality to set aside a pact for language and linguistic coexistence, day after day. Now, honestly, Mrs. Sabater, the university problem is not the català. Talk to the rectors, go talk to the rectors. Look, we've done two papers on what we think are the problems that the rectors and the university system are most concerned about, and I think the counselor can match me: one, the infra-financing of universities, and two, the aging of university plants. These two could settle and agree that they are the main problems. It's hard for me that Junts for Catalunya came to make the first move on universities talking about català. That yes, that we agree, but, man, funding, since at these times it is in a difficulty, the university, important. It's just that we're underfunded, it's that the year 2010 we spent 1,000_million euros on universities and now we're spending a lot less than 900, it's that we're under and it's been 12 years. [[Pause.]] Yes, that's right, Counselor, she'll tell you what she wants. The other day we were with rectors, and they told us. Rectors need more funding because it has not increased funding, or very little, in the last twelve years. And the aging of the seedlings. But if the UPC staff, the UB or the UAB are at fifty-seven, fifty-eight years; it is that soon the majority of teachers will be rejoicing. Now that I see Mr. Tremosa here, who, apart from being a counselor, is with me on the law of science... and explain it to us, the rectors who have been here have appeared. We have a problem with the aging of the seedlings. Why don't they accept our idea, that it's a shambles? Why? They haven't accepted our papers, either the finance or the shoal plan, or just a deal. When, moreover, our theme of finance is exactly what it says, thread by thread, the one that proposed the national plan for the society of knowledge, that all here very happy and very happy we signed to May 2020. And, what happened to this national plan? So it's not complete, like so many things going on in this Parliament and coming to fruition. How hard, because that May 2020 wasn't just parliamentary groups; there were universities, social and economic agents, technology centres, trade chambers. And we don't, and I haven't been accepted. So listen to me, that's all, we'll vote for it. Because we believe that yes, that the català must be in all the stages of society, also at the university, but they do not expel the other languages. And, above all, we don't find that we have reps at college, and one of our reps is talent attraction. If we tank ourselves because it's all in català, that's what one of the transactions that has been made with the CUP, oll, that we clearly believe that we are losing competitiveness. And listen to me, Mrs. Sabater, there are some who aren't going to make pancakes at the university. Yesterday, what happened to Pompeu Fabra was that there was a lot of detail. Everyone has a right to go to a party and show what it is; it will please me more or it will please me less, but what we cannot allow to the university or place, but above all to the university, which is the cathedral of the dialect, of knowledge, of respect, is that there is violence on the part of no one who thinks differently. We can't afford this. And from here we should be the first to condemn him when this happens, whoever he is, whoever he is who he is who he is who he is who he is who he is who he is. Zero violence at the university and society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.160.0	After the defense of the papers presented, they have now, then, the word the parliamentary groups to fix their position. In the first place, on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.161.0	Well, thank you very much, President. The words, the silences, the omissions have consequences. Qualifying as « extreme right, « fascists, « Nazis, « totalitarians, « machos, « xenophobics point out, point out and provoke, finally, situations like the one that the young people of S'Ha Afinet had to live! Yesterday, perpetrated by totalitarians, separatists and extreme left. Cheer up, young people from S'Ha Finish! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Some applause.]] This motion of Junts is the antithesis of the essence of the university; it is another attempt to whitewash the gross campaign of the hyper-subsidized private entity Platform per la Llengua and which consists – it has been designed by Consteller Geis, with the approval of the directors, of some directors – in reporting to teachers who use Spanish when a student so requests. This motion is a new attack against the universal, open, critical, tolerant, constructive spirit that constitutes the true essence of the university. It is a serious violation of the freedom of chair and the principle of university autonomy, which are two fundamental principles that avoid governmental conditionalities and restrictions. In addition, it is a repellent, this motion, for many students from the rest of Spain and foreigners with Spanish domination to refuse to choose Catalonia as their destination to study their degrees and master's degrees. Where is that so much of their internalization? This motion, moreover, is a diatribe, a false pamphlet against the normal use of Spanish as its own language in Catalonia, as an official language in Catalonia as well, against the right to be educated in Spanish throughout the national territory. I'll prove it to you with three arguments quickly. First, the agreement of the Rectors to increase the number of classes in Catalan up to eighty_per_cent and respect the sociolinguistic reality of Catalonia, which in a forty_y_ocho_per_cent is Catalan-speaking and a fifty_y_dos_per_cent is Spanish-speaking, nor respects the legal framework, since, according to the Constitutional Court, it is consolidated doctrine that the normal use of Catalan does not give it preferential character of primacy of this language over the Spanish language in the territory of the autonomous community. Junts is committed to imposing percentages of classes in Catalan at the university, but they have the defachability to say that the language does not go from percentages, as we have heard here on many occasions, when they do not want to abide by the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which states that Spanish is a vehicle language in education in percentages not less than twenty-five_per_cent. Two. The Catalan language enjoys very good health in its social and academic use. You, Mrs. Toronjo, as separatist canons mark, are expert in using tongue as a bold weapon and victimization. For a few months now, it has given the separatist groups the idea to sell us, the theory that the Catalan language is in danger of extinction, based on the misconception of studies of vitality and danger of languages, of the disappearance of languages, made by UNESCO, and on an interested interpretation of the Enquesta d'usos linguísticos de la populació, according to which only thirty-six per cent of Catalans have Catalan as their usual language. Well, apply to Catalan the theory that, below thirty percent of the social use of a language, it is threatened is crooked, immoral and unjust. What UNESCO's criteria really say is that Catalan is not in any danger at all, since it is spoken by ninety-five percent of the ethnic-linguistic group or the reference population, i.e. the 2 million people who have Catalan as their mother tongue. Three. At the previous plenary session, Mrs Palacín – she is not here – congratulated [[Funnel veils]] – yes, sorry, sorry – because many of the voters of their formation and even of other separatist parties usually spoke Spanish in their normal life, obtaining also the applause, the assent of the separatist bench. However, last week the deputy of Junts, Mr Vergés, said in an agricultural committee that he voted against a VOX proposal, with which he shared many views, because it was written in Spanish. By their fruits you will know them. In conclusion, the aim of this motion is to give a new twist to normalization, a kind name to paste into us the linguistic imposition, whose goal has always been to replace Spanish – let us not be fooled –, to force the majority of Catalans to change their usual Spanish for Catalan. The same word« normalització points this out; that is, speaking in Spanish is abnormal. And so, as Prat de la Riba said, making Catalan a tool of nationalization to collate nationalism to all. That is why we will, of course, vote totally against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.162.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.163.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, the truth is that I agree more with the reason than with your interventions, which worries me. I think they follow a rule of "wrote what we want and give what we want, and I think this is quite a bureaucratic technique. The first thing I'd say is that every time you talk about languages in education, you come out here and say, "They don't make the exception rule, they don't make a conflict of a report of a national political conflict in Catalonia, because it isn't. And then, with fifty-five complaints and fifty-five cases of conflicts at the university, the party holding the university council is standing here claiming that the català is in danger of extinction at the university. That's not serious. [[Some applause.]] I didn't study languages at college, I studied science. I don't know if it changed a lot, the university, but the percentage of català in my career, which was Environmental Sciences at the University of Barcelona, was high. I don't remember if there was a teacher who taught at the castle. And I don't even remember how many teachers there are that they're squealing at us in English. I don't know if this has changed a lot, but, seeing the data, I think it hasn't changed much. What do I mean by that? That we do not have the exception of standards, that we are still able to build a coherent linguistic policy, that I gave an obvious central pes to català to the universities. Català is not a language to study in primary and secondary; català must also have multiple uses: in knowledge transfers, also when science, also when research, when university teaching. Of course not. But we're not looking to make the standard exception and make the language conflict in spaces where the conflict is minority. We continue to design tools to promote the use of català in universities. I think there's a lot of scope to make català a vehicle language in the knowledge transfer, in the investigation. I've only published an article. I didn't publish it in the castle, I published it in English; I tried to work with my English level to translate it. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] I have never been able to publish an article in either català or castella. Fem promotion, fem knowledge transfer spaces in català. But neither do we cheat nor cheat on the lonely. The problem of català in research is not precisely that you have to write in castle, it is that there are no spaces where you can search in català and where you can publish in català, because most are in English. We're working on these spaces. And then, obviously, there must be normal spaces that guarantee a few minimums of catality to the university and a central role of catality to the universities. Obviously. And put it to the judge, and we agree. But, we insist, we think there's a lot of work to promote access, learning. We know that universities have a particular situation, that there are foreign students, who come from other countries to study in Catalonia. We have an obvious catalan promotion camp with plenty of scope to work on. Without this, obviously, the Generalitat was exonerating to establish guarantees of the use of català to universities. But we believe that the margin there is not around here, that the students give a lot more than seventy percent of the català to our universities and that, surely, the tools that we lack are all the rest. And, therefore, what we would say is that we share the whole movement. There's a little bit of dancing, there's a few interventions that we're getting shot at, but we don't convert and we don't turn Parliament into a conflict zone for universities. We give eines, we give resources to strengthen the use of català. We are still demanding in the use of catalá with universities, but we do not make the exception standard and we do not seek conflicts where, at the moment, we do not have them. We work to co-ordinate, to give to the català and to do research and innovation as well. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.164.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.165.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I think it was I don't know if the MP of the CUP – I think it was – who was saying to her that..., she was commenting that this motion seemed loose or even vague to her. And I'd say she's even overtaken by the very plan she's already carrying out her counseling. And, in fact – and I think I have expressed it on some other occasion – it costs me a lot of this kind of interpellation that you make to each other, and that then you bring in some measures and proposals that, moreover, I insist, are already exceeded by the plans that the council has announced. And it is that you, Mrs Gais, have announced to us a plan to strengthen Catalan in the university system, which I imagine is in line with what marks point 4 of this motion, but which goes beyond the points mentioned in this motion. You have told us, for example, that you want eighty_per_cent of the classes of university degrees to be taught in Catalan. [[Pause.]] He says no. You, if you want, clarify it to me, because several news has come out about it after statements that you had made. And the truth, which surprised me, because you have always denied the percentages. Mr Cambray himself, when it comes to his department, then he denies those percentages. He says it's not a percentage thing, it's a pedagogy thing. But, however, you do do make that scale and set that percentage at eighty_per_cent. I insist that that strengthening plan that you have announced from the department goes beyond, is much more ambitious than the points proposed in this motion. And besides, there are more things within this plan. A few days ago, I also called her in the control session. A parliamentary question, not an interpellation, in which I asked you about those disappointments that you encouraged university students to turn over to those teachers who, in your opinion, skipped the teaching plan and taught Spanish classes. I wonder if that goes the opposite way too, that is, will you also become equally demanding when the teaching plan states that the language is Spanish and, however, change to Catalan? I ask – I ask – because it is not very clear to me, because I always hear her speak in the same direction. Nor do I understand very much that you have to set up this system of persecution, signalling and harassment of university professors, when you proclaim to the four winds that the whole educational community is in agreement with monolingualism and that it is most of all. Then I don't like it, Mrs. Gais. And the truth is that I would like you to explain it to us, because it is that you enter into constant contradictions – into constant contradictions. And I think that you are doing a weak favor, first of all, to the prestige of Catalan universities, with this obsession you have; secondly, to the attraction of foreign students. Some of these students, if not the vast majority, are vital to the survival of many of the master's degrees offered. But it's just that it seems to you that it doesn't matter, that you don't care; you're with your lock and you don't get them out of there. I believe that, in the end, what you are going to achieve is to have a smaller Catalonia, an increasingly closed Catalonia and an increasingly isolated Catalonia. Frankly, I think they are wrong and I think that, moreover, the sample is precisely all these surveys, all these data that we are getting in recent months, in which it is shown that the social use of Catalan among young people is becoming less and less. Think about it, think about it, because you're responsible for it, and I think you should start rethinking it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.166.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Anna Torrentà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.167.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... well, as you can see, in which I will say I do not exclude the other languages, nor the castle. I'm not a college teacher either. Forty-nine years later, I'm back to being a college student. I suppose my intervention will also be needed. From the Republican Left Group we will vote positively on this motion. We want the Catalan to follow the language that marks most of the teacher plans in degrees and masters, as well as the language of the first universities, understood as the institution in this country, also advancing in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. We have to give a lot of value to the fact that it cost a lot of sacrifices that the catalá is present to higher education institutions. And, above all, remember that the català is a language that, although it does not have a state close to it, it is present at one hundred and fifty universities of the world, that have an important number of foreign students each year. But we know that, while being one of the seventy-nine languages in the world considered academic, his presence in university classes continues to be a challenge. Repres like internationalization, the recruitment of teaching staff and outside researcher and the false idea of a hierarchy of the castle towards the català tension in the promotion of its use. To deal with this and to shield the linguistic rights of teachers and students, and following the principles of transparency and linguistic security, before enrollment there is already knowledge of the teaching languages of each assignment, which cannot be changed during the course and which later find petitions of class students. It is necessary to age because the people who come from Erasmus or Promise Catalan universities can follow the classes from a collection system where they offer free classes of catal with the support of the universities. The key is that they can hear the language so that the class can be donated in Catalan, while at the time of expressing themselves, they can do so in the official language of their choice. In short, it is only the compliment of the doctrinal plans of the assignatures guided in català. And, at the same time, we need to make public campaigns of awareness and training to promote the social use of català among the young people we gather. And we have more data: in the report that it was submitted last Tuesday on the sociolinguistic mark to promote the national pact for language, in the study of degrees the use of third languages, such as English, is moderately increased, and in the case of masters, the use of French languages or languages of communication is more extensive..., the growth is considerable, to the detriment of the català. We know how important it is to find the balance between the internationalization of degrees, masters and doctorates and the consolidation of català in these. While they largely take English as a free language, both for academic relevancy and for the offer of their own universities, knowing that language cannot be an obstacle in research and knowledge, we must continue to generate a suitable model, balancing the use of French academic languages with the rept of the predominance of Catalan language in institutional, administrative and academic uses. In short, we must continue to take care of the català as the academic language of higher education in our country and, at times, continue to strengthen the excellence and internationalization of our universities. And this can only be done with the assimilation of a Catalan republic where language is part of the country project. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.168.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.169.0	Thank you, President. Well, as we have seen, those who speak of freedom, who act as the extreme right, who apply including the repressive apparatus and who try, day after day, to divide society, a cohesive society, will not achieve it; because, yes, we defend català, but we also defend multilingualism and universities and a search system open to the world in the international arena. Because the only fracture they cause is the one that we saw, as we say, yesterday, that they pretend to use politically and that gives university autonomy and, obviously, students and their faculty. And I think this should bring us to a deep reflection today on all political representatives of this chamber. And I find it intolerable to attend a university campus, when we are in the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia, to seek and to entangle in the march of conflict. Finally, giving an answer to some of the companies and their interventions: to Lucas Ferro, I think we have the same age and I think that the university has changed a lot in recent years, and I invite you to go there and see it. For another band, for what it does to the company of the commons..., I forgive, for what it does to the company of the CUP, we have incorporated these items, with these transactions that allow the better in the text and that also enrich this plan for the strength of the català. And, later on, with regard to the intervention of the Member of Parliament Romero, of the Socialist Group, we share the concerns. I am sorry that you do not recall the proposals we have made from Junts for Catalonia on the knowledge society, on the increase of investment, on the transfer of scholarships, on university fees, research, the attraction of talent, etc. I'm sure I'm happy to condemn the rape, and I'd love to hear about the rape that happened in the U of October. And I'm grabbing his glove. Finally, I'll grab his glove. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect, I'm grabbing his glove, and I'm doing it... the wrapping of the seedlings. And we will soon present a young man with this shoc plan, who was questioning us, and we will do so in the first place, asking to eliminate the repositioning rate per public square to which his Government, the most progressive government in history, has refused. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.170.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.171.0	Yes, Madam President. For..., two things: one, to ask for a separate vote on all the sub-items of item 15, of the four sub-items, which is the..., of motion number 23, of agenda item number 23, and that each of them be read before the vote. And I also wanted to ask for a secret vote, based on Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure and 101. We do not need to do this by ballot and it would be worth it by secret electronic voting, if any other group supports it and votes for this plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.172.0	He knows perfectly well that Rule 99 says that there must be two parliamentary groups. All groups have made presentations of their vote. But, still, are there any other groups that want to call for the secret ballot? [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.173.0	Yes, President. We would add to this petition if you have to consider the Mixt Group as a valid group to submit this petition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.174.0	I could spell out 32.2 of the Rule, as you know, but we are talking about institutional neutrality, affecting my person. I therefore accept this request made by the Citizens' Group. Therefore, what I understand you have added to the secret ballot is a separate vote from each of the points and, more importantly, with pre-reading before each vote. All right. I was about to say that, after the debate, we would proceed to the vote on the points that we have made this late. It's points 23 to 26 of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the neutrality of public institutions (continuation)]] [[302-00097/13]] Therefore, we will begin by voting on item 23 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the neutrality of public institutions. We vote, first of all, points 5, 9, 10a 10b and 10d. The vote begins. These points have not been approved with 18 votes in favour, 78 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting now at 10.c. The vote begins. This point has not been approved with 18 votes in favour and 110 votes against. We're voting 11th point now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved with 7 votes in favour, 89 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting now for point 11.b. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 39 votes in favour and 89 votes against. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 39 votes in favour and 89 votes against. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 7 votes in favour, 89 votes against and 32 abstentions. I'll ask the secretary to read the 15th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.175.0	"The Parliament of Catalonia rejects its president, Laura Borràs, for the lack of neutrality demonstrated in the exercise of his functions as director of the debates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.176.0	The vote begins. This point was not approved with 58 votes in favour and 69 votes against. We're voting 15b point now. I'm sorry, I went to the reading, first.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.177.0	"For lying to Members in the case of the withdrawal of Mr Juvillà from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.178.0	The vote begins. This point was not approved with 58 votes in favour and 70 votes against. Please read the 15.c. point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.179.0	"For attending a demonstration on the Avenida Meridiana de Barcelona, contrary to the Government's provisions regarding the new location in which it should take place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.180.0	The vote begins. This point was not approved with 57 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 1 abstention. Please read the 15d point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.181.0	"For degrading and compromising the Parliament of Catalonia by making the presidency of this institution compatible with its participation in other bodies of supposed representativeness of Catalans such as the so-called Council of the Republic, which involves the challenge of the institutional system of the autonomous state that legitimizes this Parliament and the Generalitat of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-24-2503.182.0	The vote begins. This point has not been approved with 50 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the points now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 50 votes in favour, 78 votes against. [[Following the question to the Government on the need for a fair, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work (continuation)]] [[302-00099/13]] Let's move on to item 24 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the need for a fair, sustainable and equitable economic recovery of the business fabric and the world of work. We begin by voting point number 1, his cap, points 1.a, 1.b and 1.e. The vote begins. These points were approved with 70 votes in favour and 58 votes against. We're voting now on point 1.c. The vote begins. This point received 40 votes in favour, 58 against and 30 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting now for point 1.f. The vote begins. This point was approved with 110 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.g. The vote begins. This point was approved with 103 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 13 abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 104 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 17 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 117 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for point 2.d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 110 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We vote, finally, point 2.e. The vote begins. This point was approved with 110 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 7 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies, guarantee of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defense of housing (continuation)]] [[302-00100/13]] Let's move on to item 25 of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into housing policies, guarantees of rights, denunciations and persecution of the movement in defense of housing. Let's vote, first of all, points 6, 7, 8 and 9. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 15 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 63 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the points now. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 78 votes in favour and 50 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Catalan language in the university and research system (continuation)]] [[302-0002/13]] And finally, we vote on item 26 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the Catalan language in the university and research system. We start by voting points 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 110 votes in favour, 12 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 78 votes in favour, 18 against and 32 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the letters from point 4. The vote begins. The remainder was approved with 110 votes in favour and 18 votes against. Let's raise the session.
