ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session, with questions to the government. [[Ask the Government about continuous privatization in the field of salvation]] [[310-00323/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on continuous privatisation in the field of salvation. The question is posed by Mrs Laia Estrada, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.2.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Argimon, you qualify the 061 Salutation Response as an essential service to ensure the proper attention of the citizenry, since it forms part of the whole health system and allows, in a non-personal way, to provide information in health matters, solve doubts and guide patients. The question is, when do they expect to internalize 061? Or is it that they will keep this service in the hands of great enterprises to facilitate its enrichment at the expense of public error and the salvation of the people?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.3.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.4.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, miri, our health system is financial through taxes. The whole city has an individual health card that allows us to access a series of resources. And when we talk about the 061 we have to say that there are more than four hundred people – nurses, midwives, psychologists, technicians – who work in critical cells, in flight cells, in pediatric cells, in mental health cells – who are internal staff of the SEM. If you are referring to people – who, moreover, are also very important – who work in teleoperation and concretely in the competition that at these public moments, I will give you more details in advance, but also know that there is the government agreement of the month of April to establish the basis for this internalization.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.5.0	To answer the question, you have the word Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.6.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...for this staff to which you refer. And actually, there's a lot of agreement. In fact, in his investiture speech, Pere Aragonès said: "There are services that you can quickly internalize so as to improve its management and integration into the public system, both auxiliary and system-relevant services. And he said, presumably, in reference to the agreements he had entered into with the CUP, with our political formation, with regard to health transport and 061. It is true that most of these agreements have remained in full play, but it is that, shortly after, in July 2021, the two groups of the government, Esquerra Republicana and Juntes per Catalunya, voted in favour of the internalisation of 061 in a motion that was approved. At the end of the year, moreover, with the approval of the assumptions, Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia introduced a provision to the law of measures that set a_me to activate the office to internalize 061, to which you referred. Where we carry the legislature, however, there has been nothing, trying to reassign the service to Ferrovial in a supposed bridge contract, after which, we remember, the last legislature, although it was required insistently in this chamber, it did not terminate the contract of 18_million donated to this company. And now what we have is that there will be a new bid, which can last for up to four years and which, therefore, shows the disinterest that you want to internalize 061 during this legislature, a bid of 96_million euros, with which is doubled the transfer of public resources to private hands, without knowing very well where these foreign money go, and, more importantly, how the bid will not be ready for the coming week, that it is when the contract ends, that you will have to make a new bidding of emergence, a new bridge contract, while, theoretically, you will study how to do the internalisation. And in the end, we will have, with so much bridge contract, an aqueduct that every time we go further than the direct management of 061, the taxation of public money that manages these big businesses and the better jobs that you have agreed with the staff of 061, because this can provide the service on decent terms and that deserve the people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.7.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.8.0	A bid was made on the 18th, exactly, which ended at the end of the 20th year; that the February of the 21st year this bid expands, is presented..., or seven companies are invited, of which only one, which at that time operated it – we are talking about the February of the 21st year – is that which is left with the service, and that this new service ended on the 5th of July. We, in this sense, have already created this office, and I'm talking about the government agreement of the month of April. Two, from this point of view we also need that the contest or that the service continues to exist. And I also have to tell you that in this new call for tenders, as the teleoperators and teleoperators of 061 of the company working on the teleoperation, today in the press release... have communicated today that this new call for tenders involves higher economic and social improvements than expected. Therefore, from this point of view, there has been no privatization, repeat, we have created the office; we have improved– or improved– the conditions– just– labor and social of workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.9.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on education policy. [[Ask the Government about education policy]] [[310-00315/13]] [[The question is put by Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.10.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Mr. Cambray, we often hear you invoke supposed pedagogical criteria that, in your opinion, underpin your educational policies. Could you explain what these criteria are and what evidence they are based on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.11.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.12.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Roldán, so the basic pedagogical criteria are that all decisions about how we educate a child are taken from the educational centres, from the experts of our teachers, from the teachers' experts, and also taking into account the evidence of where all the most advanced European educational systems are advancing in order to make the decisions that make in our classrooms better equity and better educational quality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.13.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.14.0	« This does not go in percentages, it goes in pedagogy. It's one of his favorite phrases. Not so from Mrs Geis, who skated announcing the imposition of the eighty-per-cent Catalan at the university until the government spokesman knew how to explain it, nor did you. And, in fact, he didn't know now either. Basically, because such evidences that would demonstrate the great benefits of immersion do not exist, counselor. Look, we all know the opinion of that great geneticist, Mr Oriol Junqueras, and also, therefore, those theories that you have about the superiority of the Catalan intellect, channeled through the Institute of Nova História, who believes that the world was formed around Catalonia and that, from Da Vinci to Shakespeare, here everyone was Catalan. And we weren't going to be any less, of course. Look, no country in the world applies immersion; UNESCO has already made the benefits of mother-tongue schooling very clear to them, and it also recommends multilingual schooling. And the European Parliament has also told them that their immersion system undermines the rights of pupils with disabilities and with problems in the development of language. But it is seen that according to you the wrong ones are them. And here we have to believe that immersion is the most simply because separatism says so. But, look where, we've come from rebels, because it's a matter of rights. And even if you have a sanchist bull to jump you, we're not going to consent to it. And, also, because at this point in the film we already know you leftovers. This does not go in percentages, it goes in pedagogy, of course, of pedagogy of nationalism. That's how you explained it to us very clearly a few days ago on TV3. He told us that this was a country issue: in Catalonia we have to live in Catalan, love in Catalan and relate in Catalan. And by that rule of three, in Spain, which is where we are, Mr. Gonzàlez, we have to talk..., live in Spanish, love in Spanish and relate us in Spanish. And that is precisely where the difference lies, which we estimate, love, feel and live bilingually, because being Catalan and Spanish is a wealth that only sectarians like you do not appreciate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.15.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.16.0	Thank you, President. What do we do... - I'll repeat it again, eh? , the times you need –, what we do is to close the model of Catalan school, a model that has guaranteed us equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion over decades. And we guarantee, as the law of education in Catalonia says, that all the students finish the compulsory stage, a quarter of ESO, with full oral and written knowledge of the Catalan language, of the Spanish language, and as more linguistics, better. And the more we do it in front of a court of law... what we do is protect our directions, our masters and the linguistic projects of our educational centers. Listen, Mrs Roldán, so much tothom fes of the European institutions, so much tothom fes of the second five pronouncements of the European institutions! [[Greetings.]] I return to say, because we trust in the masters, we trust in who knows how to act as master, to be master, to apply pedagogy in the classrooms. And, therefore, I would like to say again, learning – and so do I recognise the laws that have recently been approved in this Parliament with the eighty_percent of support – the learnings are not..., they are pedagogical, with strictly pedagogical criteria, adapting us to the socio-linguistic realities of all the students of our centres, adapting us. The centers are the ones who know the names and surnames of their infants. And, therefore, they are the ones who best make the decisions to ensure that all the students sun up their language skills, as I said, by finishing the ESO quarter stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.17.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full to cases of high suicide risk by means of the telephone service 061 Salut Response. [[Ask the Government about the attention given to cases of high suicide risk by means of the telephone service 061 Salut Response]] [[310-00316/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Titón Laïlla, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, that a person spends his or her life or believes or feels that his or her life has no interest and that it is worth more to wake up - or try, this is a fraction of all, of this inclusive society, of this support society, of this society that accompanies people who at a given time feel this emotional discomfort that leads them to try to commit suicide. And that's a fraction of all of us who, more than anything else, has a strong impact no longer only on their immediate family, but also on their surroundings, on their friends, who are left with the need to think if they have been able to do something or if there is something to do in a case like this. According to WHO, suicide is a public health problem. And, in fact, it's the main cause of unnatural mortality in the total population, feeling the main cause of unnatural death among young people from fifteen to twenty-nine years. At times, we also find that it has an important social gradient, since there is a higher suicide rate in that population, in that city with problems..., with socio-economic problems; but there is also a genera gradient, because there are many more tempting suicide rates in women, but in change, more suicide rates consumed in men. September of this past year, taking advantage of World Suicide Prevention Day, was to present precisely the suicide prevention plan to Catalonia, which had two great goals, that one was to reduce the suicide mortality rate by 15_per_cent and, at the same time, to work the social stigma with a 2030 goal. This objective, this prevention plan, is not just a task that falls within the competence of the Health Department, because it is obvious that in order to work this task as a cross-cutting and factual task, for example, work with a suicidal risk code empowerment that, yes, it falls within the competence of Health, but also, at the same time, to create a register of cases that must be done jointly with the Institute of Forensic Sciences and Legal Medicine. Either to work in prison or to work from the educational perspective, from the educated world. Therefore, counselor, this last week you have also presented the Mental Health Table, which from phone 061 Response also gives attention to these people who at a given time may need to share this risk option or self-lesive temptations. Therefore, counselor, we would like to know which is the objective, which features this new service from the 061 Response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.19.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Salut advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.20.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, this is one of the most important actions of the suicide prevention plan. In fact, you said, one of the main objectives is to improve the adherence of people with storms, to improve the adherence of what is the health system, the mental health system. In fact, the suicide risk code, since it was implemented in 2014, has managed to move from a twenty_per_cent of this adherence to a eighty_per_cent in adult people and a ninety_per_cent in young people. But there is still a lot and a lot to do from the point of view of proactivity, from this suicide risk code, from this kind of prevention plan, also with young people and other collections. Here there was also a very important debate from the point of view of what is the advisor's advice on whether a specific phone was preferable or to use the 061, which was a better known phone. In the end, reality is imposed. This guy 061 told us that the year 2021... I'm sorry, the year 2020 had rejected almost 5,600 tricks with suicidal ideation, and therefore from this point of... that they were obviously attuned to everything that the consulting team is. Therefore, from this point of view, the 061 was chosen. From the point of view also to be able to reinforce it with all that are psychiatrists and clinical psychologists of the network and donate a professional phone. The concept of professionalism is neither better nor worse than the others. In fact, yesterday I was in the cloenda of the day of the telephone of hope, a telephone, therefore, that gives coverage to the city of Barcelona, but also to other surroundings of Catalonia and that, moreover, we will now finance 70-30. Thirty Barcelona, set the Generalitat de Catalunya. In the sense that there's more than one phone is good. What has entered 024 is good. It's good in the sense that for the suicide, what's important is to be able to talk, it's to have different channels of entry and that it's possible to give the answer as best as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.21.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the situation in Catalonia to justice and the measures taken to promote it. [[He asked the Government about the situation of Catalonia in the field of justice and the measures taken to promote it.]] [[310-00317/13]] The question is posed by Mr Francesc de Dalmases, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.22.0	Thank you, President. She'll advise, sometimes, to find out where we are, she'll need to know a little bit of where we're coming from. We come from three hundred years of persecution of the Catalan language, culture and birth. And for these three hundred years, for these more than three hundred years, Catalan speakers have felt that the Catalan was not the language of justice. It wasn't about defending his rights, but it wasn't about defending charges. During most of these three centuries, the Catalan language has been banned from justice. And now it's not, because now it's not, there's some obvious inertia that makes there's a perception that justice doesn't understand català, that català can't do justice. In fact, once this right exists, we're at 2022 and we have some data that scares us a little. Only 6.2_percent of requests submitted to e-justice. as they are in catalá and less than the set_per_cent of the sentences are written in catalá. In fact, we already have a problem with the professionals of the right with their training, because in university studies, for example, private universities, less than the set_per_cent of assignments are in Catalan and public universities, less than half of the assignments are in Catalan. In the field of notaries you also know that we have an obvious problem where less than two per cent of the documents are written in Catalan. And, therefore, we find ourselves before a linguistic emergence. We need to do justice to the català. I always say that it is magnificent news that we are in this Parliament and that I am directing in Catalan to the councillor of the Government of Catalonia. So, we've done a job. Our work is a work of victories, of determination, but also of great resistance. But now, in this specific sector, in the field of justice administration, she advises us to know, before this emergence, of this critical situation that we live in many camps and in many aspects, what is the plan you have to reverse this situation and why ultimately you do justice to catalá and you do justice in catalá. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.23.0	To answer the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.24.0	[[The counselor begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...the president. Good morning, MPs, MPs, advisors and advisors. You, Congressman, explained it very well. We're in an emergency situation with the català to justice. And it is necessary to make a normal and normal use of the català in this environment. And it's true that, so, right now, it's not the best situation in the world. When I first compared here in this chamber in committee, I committed myself to making a diagnosis to see how the català between our department was. And they come up with data that you've been thinking about. Really alarming. But it's that, besides, from the option of submitting telematic requests in catalá there is a linguistic option and, unfortunately... Or, eight of each of the petitions that are made in catalá are not attached. Therefore, the courts do not respect this petition which makes the one who wants to file a lawsuit in Catalan. Therefore, before all this, from the department we have devised, therefore, a plan to be able to reverse the situation. And we divide it into two forms of acting. One more internal view, I mean, everything they rely on from the department to be able to do, and one more external view. So what are we starting to do from the department? To begin with, a very intuitive web that is located in the department's web, where all the language resources collected are available. And, therefore, professionals who are mostly castellan can resort to forms, more specific terminology in català between this web. We have created a QR code where we can collect in situ the incidences that are collected in the courts and that, therefore, make the use of the catalá difficult, because we have knowledge at the time when the incidence is and where it occurred. We are an active part of the Compendium, an initiative that allows us to constantly update the Catalan language and terminology of the Catalan language to justice. Moreover, we would demand that professionals who act in Catalonia should have level C1 as a minimum. And that's not new, Valencia's already fired. So, in Catalonia it was B2 so far, we would demand C1, which is what our students have when they finish school. We call in four years two-hundred fellowships for judges and prosecutors, because they can exercise in Catalonia, to gain the status of plants and, therefore, that they also know our language. Therefore, if someone is from Catalonia, they understand that they will know our language much better. In short, some scholarships that will be around the interprofessional minimum wage. We want to do this, it's a normal and normal use. And from the outside, here we will incorporate everything that will result from the work table in the National Justice Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.25.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Assembly of the Agenda of Peoples and Citizens of Catalonia. [[Question to the Government about the Assembly of the Agenda of Peoples and Cities of Catalonia]] [[310-00318/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President, you have to allow me, first of all, to congratulate you now that we know that Mobile remains until 2030. You said it yourself, "Despite the campaigns, reality is coughing up. I, therefore, congratulate you. Currently Catalonia counts with a total of 947 municipalities, some of which with pedanies and others with EMD, decentralized municipal entities, like Jesus, my people. Most of these municipalities have fewer than five thousand inhabitants, and they only raise the deu_per_cent of the total population. Thus, there are twenty-three municipalities of more than fifty thousand inhabitants that have fifty-four percent of the population. The metropolitan area of Barcelona, as you well know, is the ideal example of where the majority of the citizens of Catalonia are concentrated. The figures I have just mentioned show that we must continue to bet on a connected territory, with actions that avoid depopulation and urban inequality to compliment the concepts of territorial balance and equity. We face major global challenges such as digital transition or green transition, and that is why it is essential for Catalonia to make a qualitative leap in the territorial sphere. A leap to build a country where people have quality services that allow for greater proximity, better equipment and job opportunities. But at the same time and to achieve these previous goals, you can also connect and vertebrate intermediate and small cities. Thus, it is necessary to establish a full route to achieve a digitally and climate neutral Catalonia that will provide quality services to the population, which will face competitive challenges in the current industrial sectors, from the most traditional to the primacy, and which, at the same time, will open up to the new opportunities offered to us by digital technologies. As we have claimed on other occasions, we need to have a network that allows us to go from end to end of the country, but we also need to have public digital services focused on citizenship, adjusted to the personal and territorial particularities that we have with the country. For all that, we know that last week his department presented the agenda of the people and cities of Catalonia, an agenda of reptes and opportunities that sets the gaze in the Catalonia of 2050. And we'd like to know, from Juntas, who was the construction process of this agenda and who are the priorities that it marks for this Catalonia of 2050. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.27.0	To answer the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.28.0	Thank you, President. And very good morning Members and Members. Member, first of all, allow me, too, to add myself to collective happiness. I think the news that Mobile is still in Catalonia by 2030 is great news. It's very important. It's as important as when, for example, we get other types of investments, huh? , of factories or external investments arriving in our country. I think it's a big decision. And just 'you, this corroborates a fact that we are already too accustomed, that when the decisions do not fall from Madrid, Catalonia guanya; when the decisions are taken in Kuala Lumpur or are taken in Brussels, Catalonia guanya. But, well, back to the topic you asked me about the urban agenda in Catalonia, which you also have to see. There is also to see because it is obvious that one of the great vectors of what the future of our municipalities must be is through digitization. It goes through digitization and also goes through decarbonization. They are the two great vectors that United Nations, international organizations mark us as global reptes. And the mandate to create an urban agenda for Catalonia, the agenda of the people and cities of Catalonia, is a mandate of United Nations that began a few years ago, which here we have really pressed, that we have participated in all the administrations. It is a great country agreement where we are all – where we are all – and which has as its main challenges, obviously, taking advantage of these two vectors, territorial balance. We want a country where everyone has opportunities, vis-à-vis the most dense areas or areas with the lowest population density, which is also a country of opportunity, a country of progress, which, therefore, all people, also vis-à-vis people, can develop their professional and vital activity. And also, obviously, a country with social equity visqui on visqui. These are the main challenges on the urban agenda to make Catalonia a digital country, a decarbonized country, a country that is territorially balanced with the greenest, most prosperous and democratic cities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.29.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on measures to ensure free choice of educational centre. [[Ask the Government about measures to ensure free choice of educational centre]] [[310-00310/13]] The question is put by Mr Joan Garriga on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament (VOX).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.30.0	Thank you. Counselor, what do you intend to do to ensure that parents choose to choose a school, especially the parents of Mary Ward College?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.31.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.32.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Garriga, what we do is guarantee the freedom of choice of families, as has always happened to the Catalan education system. And we've taken it into account that we live together. And, therefore, living together means that education is a common good and, therefore, planning the offer is the Department of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.33.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.34.0	Yes, Mr. Counsellor, your Government remains committed to not guaranteeing the right of parents to choose the education of their children, denying freedom to choose school. They plan school places without first consulting parents. Pre-registration begins a few months before the course begins, and thus it is impossible to match the offer with the demand. They zonify schools, as if all areas had the same wealth of educational options. They do not determine the lines per course according to the requests of the schools. They are not flexible with ratios, with pupils per classroom, so that it adapts to birth or demand. They don't directly fund students, they fund the centers through blackmailing the educational concert. They discriminate economically against social initiative in front of public schools. And don't tell us that more than ninety_per_cent has guaranteed your first choice, because it's based on what you offer them in pre-registration. And one example is what happened this year with Mary Ward College. Today we have a worthy representation of your parents in plenary. They deny the concert because they do not complete a line, that is, the right to funding you give it in block, not individually, as we propose from VOX, through the school check. They drown in this way economically at the centre and are unable to help them and ensure the continuity of an educational centre that has been serving education on our land for over a hundred years. But parents' money is spent on other public schools that do not have that demand that some social schools have. With the closure of Mary Ward and her lack of positive reaction, of course, she loses the plurality of the educational community: teachers, her work; parents, her freedom and, of course, almost three hundred students suffer emotionally. Counselor, ensure the continuity of the Mary Ward educational centre. And, if not, ensure that parents can freely choose the first option they have determined, expanding the lines already agreed upon, guaranteeing their concert and, if not, Mr. Counsellor, resign.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.35.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.36.0	Deputy Garriga, let's see: who's closing..., the Department of Education doesn't close to the educational center; the Department of Education doesn't get a concert. Who shuts Mary Ward is the headline – he is the headline – who is private, who until now has a concert and decides on June 14, unilaterally, to lock up an educational offer after pre-registration. What we should do is take action against Mary Ward School with a practice that is not own and unacceptable and intolerable. What we do from the Department of Education is that the rules apply to us because private ownership centers that make a concerted offer can't close after the pre-registration process. Because then, when they tank unilaterally, and the Department of Education can't do anything – we don't tank at school, we don't have a concert – what happens is we do what we do like the Department of Education, like the government of the country, that it's accompanying families. And that's what we've done: June 14th, the lockdown is connected; June 15th, let's inform the families; June 16th, let's start this follow-up and activate a specific operation that we already have for these cases. Last year, unfortunately, we also found ourselves, with the Boix school, of Badalona. Therefore, we activate an operation to accompany all families. In the educational area of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi, where Mary Ward School is, there are vacancies, there is a lot of offer – arranged, above all – and there are vacancies. Therefore, what we do is to accompany the 290 families, one by one, and offer them the vacant seats in the area. In the educational areas 9, of Sarrià, Tres Torres, and zone 10– educational in Barcelona city–, of Putxet and Sant Gervasi, there are 332 childhood vacancies, 471 primary vacancies and 266 secondary vacancies. Therefore, we will protect the families who have found themselves in a situation that they did not expect, giving them preference and being able to register in these vacancies before the assignment of the living enrollment of the summer. And the one who gave it to him before: we don't deny any concert. In a situation that we do not like, that we should not be able to produce, a unilateral closure, that the legislation allows them to do in twenty-four hours and that we do not agree, what we do next is to accompany the families and ensure that they have a place in their educational area.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.37.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the reindustrialisation plan of the Baix Penedès. [[Ask the Government about the reindustrialisation plan of Baix Penedès]] [[310-00311/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Dolors Carreras, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies. What's the government's forecast for the reindustrialization of the Baix Penedès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.39.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.40.0	Well, as you know, MP, for this government the reindustrialisation of Catalonia is an absolute priority. And, of this priority, the Lower Penedes is a key region and, therefore, we are working in many directions. We have already started to work, we will do much more in our own months, because we want to take advantage of a favourable context to the process of reindustrialisation because of the advantage, obviously, of a region like the Baix Penedès, which needs it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.41.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Pains Carreras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.42.0	A few weeks ago we knew that one of the historic and well-known companies in Lower Penedes announced the gathering of sixty workers. Just made a year had announced the closure of one of its production lines, with the addition of 122 workers. This company is a referent to the region. You're 50 years old from implantation. It is a very important economic engine, both for its sub-workers and for its auxiliary enterprises. Saint Gobain. It also helps industry, trade, restoration and other sectors. Sometimes it favors coexistence and civic cohesion. What will be the end of this company? We all know it: the final lock. The region of Baix Penedès feels less. She's tired of the twilight, the disinversions and the social problems. The mayors have the feeling they're calling, but they're listening. For the time being, Mr. Counselor, I'm not convinced. Counselor, do you think the reindustrialization of this area is solving with the expansion of Idiad? Sounds good to us, huh? But we don't think it's enough. The Lower Penedes is worth more. Oh, and there is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.43.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.44.0	Well, as you know, Congresswoman, Saint Gobain's Occupational Regulation Expedient is at the state level, because it effectively affects the Arboç plant, but it also affects the Avilés plant, in Asturias, and, therefore, not the pilot from the Department of Enterprise and Treball, but the Spanish government that drives this Occupational Regulation Expedient. But that doesn't mean we don't work there. Of course we're working on it. And we work in relation, obviously, to the representatives of the workers and workers, but also from the direction of the company, to ask, to work, because it is reconsidering the decision and, in any case, to offer alternatives to the affected families. As we have done with other reindustrialisation processes, so have we in the area of Penedès. For example, with Bosch Castellet, through the reindustrialisation with GSR, or to Olèrdola, with the Grammer plant, reindustrialized by the Tucano group. We are working with this reindustrialisation, but also with tractor projects. And, effectively, Idiada is a very important tractor project, from the industrial point of view and, specifically, in the field of automotive. And we're working on the new contract beyond 2024. But we are also working, for example, with the PDU of Sant Marçal - Can Vies, which will make available one hundred and twenty hectares for economic development. And we're also working in the field of help. For example, we have incorporated four municipalities in the area of Penedès into which they can have more regional help from the European Union. Therefore, this makes it easier for us to make a greater effort in reindustrialisation processes. And we are also working in the area of the National Pact for Industry, where there are territorial proposals in the area of the evergreen Penedès. And this we will also do with an administrative arrangement in the territory, through the Office of Action, in the deployment of the Vegar of the Penedès, which will be in the Garraf, but which will also give service to the Baix Penedès. Therefore, we are working on reindustrialisation in all its formulations, both to ensure the maintenance of industrial activity, to capture new investment and, above all, to make the Baix Penedès a region that benefits from this process of reindustrialisation that we want for the conjunction of Catalonia, but especially for those regions that have the highest index.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.45.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on measures to avoid water restrictions on Garrigues and Segrià. [[Ask the Government about measures to avoid water restrictions on Garrigues and Segrià]] [[310-00312/13]] The question is posed by Mr Óscar Ordeig, on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. In the first place, we would like to show our solidarity with all those affected by last week's fires in Lleida, Pirinius, Hebrew and the Catalonian Junction, and a thanks to the emergencies. Counselor, how would you be, how would your government be, if you were left without drinking water at home in the midst of heat for many days, without drinking power, without cooking? How would it feel if this situation is repeated any other year without a proposal and a definitive solution being carried out? What would you think if the government, which has to defend and propose a solution, doesn't appear in the territory before such a difficult situation? Does the government plan to take any definitive solution to prevent water restrictions from being repeated in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.47.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.48.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputy. Well, I suppose it also refers to the situation of the Segria, the Garrigues, among others. Obviously, we don't like it. Obviously, we're sorry. Do not have access to mouth water, therefore, to eat or to drink, to cook or to drink, obviously, worries us. But in any case, this government has done and does everything possible because this situation is reversed. Actually, I'm very surprised by the question. You see from the local world you should know perfectly well that, for the law of local rule bases, the supply of drinking water at home corresponds to the joints. But it's obvious that some of them are small, and it's obvious that they can't do it alone, and that's why, in fact, the country articulates itself in communities. There are very many, as you know – I suppose. In any case, they do not correspond to the Generality exactly what they correspond to the joints, which is to operate in the installations, which is to improve or maintain these. And what the Generality does have to do is help finance or help in these emergency situations, which is what we do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.49.0	To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.50.0	On the role of the assemblies, here is the Mayor of Albi, Member of Parliament, who can explain to her what capacity they have and what is happening to the Garrigues, one of the most populous and most difficult regions in our country. So let's put our shoulder down, they say, and try to help all folds. [[Greetings.]] If with the food..., if with the food you don't play, I think with the water still less. It's impossible to live in conditions and we can't afford to have this third world situation in Catalonia, to the towns and cities of our home. All solidarity with the veins of the Garrigues and the Segrity and the affected, for those who have experienced this situation this week. All solidarity and support to the mayors, the water community, to resolve this situation urgently. And so should the government. The cost or various excuses, I think they do not apply in such an essential and important subject as this. The ACA – the ACA – does not work. Because we've been demanding solutions for years and there's no way. I said: we agree with Mr Batet – here on the right, always punctual – who said: "We don't want first-class comarques and second-class comarques. So that's what's going on. They don't want them, but we have them. We have second-hand comarques, who feel like second-hand, who feel like second-hand or third-hand, with resources as essential as water or basic infrastructure. As I said, we have a lot of problems and the last thing we can think about is that water would end up feeling the big problem of commas like Segria and Garrigues. Therefore, twenty-five municipalities, eight thousand people affected and the solution are not the ticks and the cisterns. The solutions are to put the technicians to work, to put in the necessary resources, to collaborate with the assemblies and the community to try that here, to the Garrigues, to the Segria and to the conjunction of Catalonia, these incidences, which may be there, are resolved. Counselor, we believe that Garrigues is the clear symptom of a model that does not have the pulse of the territory or that has lost it long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.51.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.52.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, as I said, the General has acted. And it did, in fact, bring this economic solution with the tankers. In fact, every year we have 500,000 euros earmarked for this. There are just other regions in the country that, unfortunately, are still in this situation. There will be a short call, with which you can cover these expenses. But in any case, what we have to do is solve it structurally, obviously. And, in this sense, there's help from the ACA, which you know, I hope. In fact, in the last five years, 100 million euros have been allocated for this very reason, they have covered the eighty per cent of the expenses of the joints or joints, seven open lines and the joints or joints have never presented themselves, to which he refers. So, despite the fact that some gatherings have complained about it, it has not been so. Which thing, what we've done... and, in fact, in the case of the Garrigues, is a constant dialogue with the Commonwealth. In fact, the congress that it does is distribute in the field of bottling and the generality will obviously help with the tankers. But the ACA has also brokered with the concessionaire, precisely to review the active carbon filters, and, in fact, it has already done so; it has also advised the community to improve the current infrastructure, in the water collection system, to make it more robust, but it has also called for joints and joints to appear in these lines of help to improve the supply. Therefore, close collaboration, but also planning, strategic visit from the territories, resolve this situation. And, obviously, this government, which is a municipalist government, is always on the side of joints and joints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.53.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the state of execution of the European Foundations Next Generation. [[Ask the Government about the state of implementation of the European Foundations Next Generation]] [[310-00313/13]] The question is posed by the Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for the Advancement of Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, at the beginning of this month, on a visit to Lleida's districts, said that the Next Generation funds are an exceptional opportunity to transform and modernise the Catalan economy. On this same visit, he encouraged entrepreneurs and joint ventures to compete for these resources and generate projects and submit them to all calls, as well as not letting the opportunity pass and not being discouraged by the bureaucracy. Notwithstanding these words, the level of implementation of the Next Generation funds managed by the Generality for the period 21-22 is extremely low: only 22.7_percent of the resources allocated to Catalonia have been the subject of calls or tenders by the Government and only a new_percent have reached the street, companies, entities or administrations, through resolved procedures. How does the government value this low level of execution?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.55.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.56.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Riba. I believe that the focus of your question, if I may, is not entirely appropriate this time: on the issue of European foundations, it is not as important to speed up implementation as efficiency, transparency and fairness in the distribution of funds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.57.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.58.0	Counselor, the Generality has assigned, for the period 21-22, 2,194_millions; it has not called a 22,7 and has paid, that is, they are to the real economy, 199, a new_per_cent. Of those who have actually entered – are in the accounts of the Generality – have not called or bid 499. They have more than 1,000_million euros in cash that they could or should be in the hands of the beneficiaries of these funds. If these figures are absolutely scandalous..., in fact, quoting Vice President Puignero, we could say that you have a new problem, which is said to be new_per_cent. But if, as I said, global figures are scandalous, the analysis for departments is gross and dramatic. The Vice-President's Department has summoned an 8,4_per_cent of the money, 21.7 of the 256,9_million, and does not appear on the web follow-up no obligation, i.e., paid money. The Department of Enterprise, a 16,9; 42_million out of 249 assigned. Other departments, in change, have implementation levels of 79,8_per_cent, such as Climate Action, and other communities, such as Valence or Balears, have implementation levels of 60-per-cent and 60-per_cent. Who qualifies for utility or competence, or useless and incompetence, do you think we should use for this new_per_cent? They announced that they hired 186 people to strengthen the management of the docking and management of the Next Generation funds; they have 1,000_million in calaix; a problem with the execution of the new_per_cent; they are not complete with Catalonia... What do they think to reverse this situation? Because, in this case, they only depend on you, on your Government, on the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.59.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.60.0	Look, the first thing I'm gonna tell him is that the balance is at the end of the year. Thirty-yes_per_cent, I remember, 35,7, huh? 35.7 at the end of the year. Next thing. As I said, this European foundation is so important and it's such a historic opportunity for the country, that it's not about putting face on speed, it's about doing it well, effectively, transparently and justly, according to the territories. Miri, I'm not saying, I'm saying the President of the Airef, Mrs. Cristina Herrero, lawyer of the state, auditor and what happened to Minister José Luis Write to the Presidency of the Airef. The Spanish Government is not transparently and clearly managing European foundations. I'm not saying that. It's the second idea – it's the second idea. Listen, look, with the historical experience we have with Spain, as you can imagine, one thing is the promise, another assigned it, another added it. You have spoken of 2,200_millions; 2,200_millions is the assignee, who have so far entered 1,500, no 2,200, 1,500. The others promised me; when we get there, we'll talk about it. Of these 1,500, twenty-five summonses have been made and more dinosaurs are on the march. Mr Riba, I am telling you the truth: this European foundation is so important that what I would ask is that we are making a common front – we are making a common front – and that you are making the project your own that the Government of Catalonia is working to achieve the loss of microxip in Catalonia. Because no one like Catalonia has an ecosystem of research centers, talent and entrepreneurs to embrace the PERTE of microxip. I'm sure they'll show the third acronym of their party together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.61.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the strengthening of the Catalan economy. [[Ask the Government about the strengthening of the Catalan economy]] [[310-00320/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lluïsa Llop, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.62.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Conseller Torrent, in this chamber we often hear catastrophic and demagogic speeches about the Catalan economy. The fact is that the Catalan economy is advancing. And so it informs, for example, the Financial Times, that it recognizes Catalonia and Barcelona as the territory and city of Europe with the best strategy to capture foreign investments. All a recognizance of the work done from Action. I also said the annual report of the Catalan economy, which indicates an intense growth of our GDP in 2021, of 5.8_per_cent, over the growth of Spanish or European. He also said the rate of the first quarter of 2022, a tax that obviously we would want to zero, but that at the moment already marks a 10.2_per_cent. Is that what we're doing? No, obviously not. We need to continue working and bet on ambition and transformation, to put into value the attraction of the Catalan economy and put it to the service of shared prosperity, as President Aragonès said, in Foment del Traball, this week. We have to do this to all spheres, and today I want to talk specifically about tourism, which we have to rethink, which we are rethinking, to take full advantage of its potential. And we have samples of how good it can be. We were told that the Mobile World Congress will continue in Catalonia until 2030, a news that is obviously excellent for the telecommunications sector and its development, but that also shows our attractiveness as a destination for international conferences, and helps us build a different, diverse and high-value tourism model. Another exhibition, the presentation, also this week, from Espiells, land of vi, of the food tourism strategy of Catalonia ; a bet for a tourism with higher acquisition value, a tourism that generates more wealth in the territory. We want to become a referent of wine and gastronomic tourism. We must continue in this direction. We know that the government works for a sustainable, innovative, deseasonalized tourism model, where the benefits revert to the citizenry. Therefore, counselor, we want to ask you what is being done from your department to achieve this tourist model of quality and added value that contributes to a stronger, more dynamic and more inclusive economy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.63.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.64.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, despite the obvious and intense difficulties that the country's economy is experiencing, a good part of them derives from the occupation of Ukraine – in relation, obviously, to the price of energy, to inflation, to the difficulties of sub-administration – despite all this, the data, as you said, are positive, the economy is advancing, and this is thanks to the resilience of the country's product fabric. In the data you mentioned, I don't add one more pair. On one side, that last month we had old social security affiliation memories. We are in the fifres of 2008; therefore, before the crisis will finance. And 2021 we also closed with a record of exports, and therefore with a record of internationalization of our economy. I insist, this is thanks to the resilience of the country's product fabric. But we can't stay here if we just want to continue with these good data; in fact, if we want to improve them, we need to address this transformation of the product model. There are two vectors that are clear, that are digitization and sustainability. And two of the events or two of the elements that you put on the table and that you've spent the last few days, they help you, they go that way. For starters, in the field of tourism, enogastrotourism, huh? ; indeed, a good strategy that helps us to make the new tourism model, to deconcentrate, to deseasonalize, to diversify and, above all, to attract tourism that provides more resources. Therefore, it is a good strategy that places us in this line of a responsible tourism model. We have set aside 12_million euros to achieve in five years to position ourselves in a leadership situation in this area. But Mobile is also very important, indeed, not only for the direct impact, these estimated 300_million euros, but above all because it links us even more to this connection in the technological field; it places us as a technological referent, not just from the south of Europe, but I would say about the conjunct of the continent, and with good prospects even from a global point of view. And not only in the field of start-ups, we actually do a very important job, but also of skylabs and big corporations, that every time they look at Barcelona and Catalonia as a possible their own of their units, of their investments. Therefore, we continue to work in these two areas, in these two vectors – sustainability and digitalization – essential because the Catalan economy continues to advance with these data that we present in the last months and that we want to expand in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the national mental health pact. [[Ask the Government about the National Mental Health Pact]] [[310-00321/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Alba Vergés, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. He will advise, in the monogram of mental salvation, Mercè Torrentallé told us: "It is very important that we work all aspects of the person; we are not trossets, we are concrete people. We have to work from teaching, justice, social welfare and salvation. She gave us the first person's view; she directly asked us to create inter-departmental policies, counting on her participation, and therefore we congratulate ourselves that the 14th of June is the table of the National Pact of Mental Health: Government, entities and professionals and the local world. Seeing a pandemic without precedent taught us a lesson of humility: at any time, we can live conditioned by a virus. So at any time, one of the four people we're here can live with a mental disorder. Addressing the mental salvation of all people is and must be a country's political priority. Socio-economic inequalities, discrimination, affect mental health, especially between young people and large people, also with a clear gender bias. Isn't the loneliness in which many people live, especially great people, as we work? If we know that people at the time have a higher probability of experiencing a mental disorder and that the disorder affects the eighty per cent of people with mental disorder, where do we approach it? If we know that anxiety disorders, depression, eating disorders have increased, especially in young girls; if we know that the lack of expectations of the precaritated young people exposes her to a much higher risk of mental distress; if we know that suicide storms have increased more than twice, and that this is the first cause of death in young people; if we know everything that affects everyone's emotional well-being and mental health, we know that we need to act from prevention, access to mental health services and even recovery. This is taking care of the health and well-being of our people, from the community, to school, to work, to social relationships, to reach everyone. And for all these reasons, counsel, from the Republican Left, we want to give impetus to Parliament and ask it how the National Mental Health Pact will help to work in prevention, the cure and the guarantee of the rights of the general population and especially of the people who live with mental disorder and their families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.67.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.68.0	Thank you, President. Well, honourable Member, it is very pertinent to this question, because, as you know, mental health has been an invisible reality, silenced at many times, so it is necessary to reverse this situation, and that is why we need to bring forward a pact of these characteristics, and, especially, as you pointed out, after the pandemic; a pact that has two main objectives: of a band, it is to strengthen the existing services, in fact, from the Department of Health and Social Rights and, in fact, the whole government, because it is a question that involves the whole government, but also to improve coordination with many other actors, such as the local world, entities, etc. For this reason, the President also wanted to push it from a point of view that already from the investiture we speak and much, but also in this monographic debate, as he explained, he produced here in Parliament with very important resolutions, with proposals for very important resolutions, such as pushing forward this pact, this country agreement. Put the people in the center. You also said, the first people, the Mercè Torrent Workshop and many others that we have been listening to all these weeks and months, the difficulties in their day-to-day, the difficulties in working or keeping it or, let's say, following the studies with normality. Therefore, we have placed ourselves in place to put more economic resources, more human resources to the length of his life to give support, to adapt us. In this sense, this pact – we say – is inter-departmental, cross-sectoral, but it is also aligned with WHO's objectives. In this sense, the WHO applauded, is applauding our work placement, which is in place, which is a positive vision of mental illness, in the sense of working because people, therefore, do not feel stigmatized and, therefore, overcome prejudices that we have all lived long and that sometimes we have not added. Allow to make a life, that has full life, satisfying. But also take care of the professionals of mental salvation, who, as you know, therefore work in a selfless way, in an excellent way and, often, therefore, not without difficulties. In any case, also learn from territorial experiences and be able to replicate them to other rights, to other territories. That is why we built this table on June 14, as I said, with more than fifty entities that we conjured up to work, to collaborate, to participate actively and to promote this pact. In any case, thank you very much for doing so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.69.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the response of the education system to Ukrainian children and young people. [[Ask the Government about the response of the education system to Ukrainian children and young people]] [[310-00322/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Najat Driuech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Counselor, in a context of wars there has always been confusion, uncertainty and by. Despite this, from the first moment of the Ukrainian war declared for Russia we know that the government, encapsulated by President Aragonès, offered all the collaboration to the State to use the colliding infrastructure and facilitate the arrival of Ukrainian citizens, as had already been done in other conflicts. Because Catalonia is and will always be a land of concentration. I said that by active and passive. We want to embrace and strongly condemn all the lives of action that are not democratic. And allow them to repeat another thing. We want to welcome anyone I need, come from where I come, be born where I'm born. Discrimination and racism will never fit our society, and we will always be at the expense of fraternity and solidarity. Therefore, it is clear that before a new conflict, not acting was not an option, as it has never been. And more when Catalonia is the community of the State with the most Catalan citizens of Ukrainian origin, about 22,000. Here we repeat from here all the support and solidarity for the patience that they are still going through. We had to guarantee the basic rights of these people, and we did, as we do with all the people I needed. A clear example of this right was the schooling of children and adolescents, and it was done with resources and facts. Family reunification, facilitation of school enrolment, language support, transport, etc. So, a support and effort on the part of the Administration, which, despite not having all the tools, we have seen that we have made it possible. And speaking of tools and resources, counselor, reiterate the petition to the Spanish State that it does not withdraw the covid funds to continue to guarantee these resources and the rights of new children and adolescents. For all this, counselor, we ask him to know more about how the answer to the education system with young and young Ukrainians was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.71.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.72.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, MP Driuech. Well, as all the deputies of this chamber know, and as you very well stated, the Catalan education system is teaching all the children and young people who arrive at any time of the school year, at any time of the year. What we're doing is we're going to school them because Catalonia is a crowded country, because Catalonia is believing and applying democratic principles, we're believing and applying human rights. And from the escalate of war in Ukraine, we have attended the infants and young people who have been arriving. We've done this in coordination with the Department of Equality and Feminism, which is who has these powers of policies of accolade and refuge of the Generality. And we did it with the criteria that you said. In Catalonia, the education system will never discriminate for any reason, either for reasons of gender, or for language, or for economic reasons, or, obviously, for reasons of origin. What we did first when the war broke out, what we did was we had to have a collide protocol with coordination with the Department of Equality and Feminisms, a protocol that tells us how to make this first collide, all that came from this collide and, above all, very important too, this collide with the country's assemblies, this collide with the municipal school offices. And then we went to assign seats. We have been assigning places taking into account different criteria. Some of the most prominent are family reunification, in the extended sense of family reunification, the Germans must be together. And another criterion has also been to minimize the attention paid to the centres that receive this boarding school, which has not always been very easy, we also have to say. Therefore, since March 1, we have educated 4,719 students, 21.6_percent of the children who have arrived from Ukraine in the Spanish State, and we have done so with the necessary resources, because we are a country of gathering. We have done so with 138 new teachers and teachers, one hundred and thirty-nine collide classrooms, we have created twenty-nine groups of us, we have equipped the education system with more techniques of social integration, we have made 3,250 food and eight hundred transport grants associated with this student for such a possible collide, this integration. And the economic impact was 3_million euros. And, therefore, we claim, as you said, that the Spanish State gives the answer to which it has been compromised, that it is urgently covering this economic impact, which until now we have had resources close to the Education Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.73.0	Ask the Government [[Ask the Government about the policies of the Department of Equality and Feminisms to guarantee the right to abortion]] [[310-00319/13]] to respond orally in full on the policies of the Department of Equality and Feminisms in order to guarantee the right to abortion. The question is posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. This week we have to regret all the important attack that has taken place against the rights of millions of women, with an eye to sexual and reproductive rights. The attack of the political, conservative and phonementalist courts of the Supreme Court of the United States is one of the main attacks and of those that we would remember most of all of the ultra-rights lobbyists and phonementalists against the sexual and reproductive rights of women. In front of a feminist movement every time stronger and that has conquered rights based on many struggles and many battles, the reaction of the ultra-right is to organize, from decades ago, and occupy power spaces for, from power spaces, to reverse rights. But what has happened in the United States, we know, is not such a thing, they are decades of work from these international lobbyists, some lobbyists who have a lot of presence in the United States, in Llatina America, in Europe and also in Spain, through entities such as Make You Hear or the same Provided Foundation, which is one of the leading entities in leading the anti-avortic movement to Catalonia. Second we were able to see the lower floor of TV3, we could read to Critic or Provida time has financed with up to 4_million euros one of the main European lobbying organizations and parties of ultratradrete, which precisely attack sexual and reproductive rights. The same Provide foundation seems to be that it brings forth over two years of funding from the Generalitat de Catalunya, about 260,000 euros of annual average, therefore, approximately more than 2 million euros. He will advise, what is harder is that, more than that, through the Low Plant we know that it seems that this year and they will continue to do so, they will continue to fund them, because the Department of Social Rights says that this is a technical thing and that they do social tasks as any other entity. Counsel, the question is very concrete: what do you plan to do with your department, the council of Equality and Feminisms, to prevent the Department of Social Action or other departments from financing fundamentalist entities that attack human rights and sexual and reproductive rights of women.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.75.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.76.0	Good morning, Congresswoman Segovia. The General has not financed any action that goes against sexual and reproductive rights. And I could hear that this went a lot further than before. Any call for grants from any administration has a concrete legal and judicial context, and what we have are courts that accept as freedom of expression transfolic buses and pull back the sanction that was imposed in the previous legislature to stop the circulation of this vehicle. We have, also, courts that accept strategic disputes, accept disputes for blasphemy against freedom of expression, as can be, therefore, the manifestation of the insubmissive cone, artistic expressions, which are, therefore, strategic disputes against political participation, which attack especially journalists, activists and human rights defenders. As you pointed out, this so flagrant and dramatic setback that we have seen in the United States, with the Supreme Court's judgment, we also remember that we have an appeal against the law of sexual and reproductive salvation filed by the PP on the Constitutional Court table, which precisely uses the same techniques of manipulation of the majority to have a conservative majority. We are working, therefore, on different levels of government and different institutions for the long term the legislative changes that may be necessary to ensure that freedom of expression cannot be used against or that other rights may be violated, or to ensure that these strategic disputes that also tempt human rights defenders cannot be brought forward. And, at the same time, we defend sexual and reproductive rights as much as possible, and this is the government's commitment. And we've done it with an approved national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights that includes the right to abhorrence as one of the central axes. Territorial equity has been expanded with seven new points of IVE: five pharmacologics, three surgicals. This allowed to cover central Catalonia, Lands of the Ebre and Lleida, where it could not be sorted between the two types of methods. The Department of Health is about to approve the new IVES protocol, which, based on new scientific evidence and working with scientific societies, professional colleges, the Department of Equality and Feminisms and specialized entities, extends the pharmacological option to fourteen weeks with all hospital follow-up. And we are working to further improve the training of professionals to accompany the tria of women and also the information they have access to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.77.0	To answer the question, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.78.0	Counselor: It is very difficult for his Government not to understand that financing the Provided Foundation is financing global lobbying that is aimed at sexual and reproductive rights, which are behind the setbacks of Hungary, Poland or the United States. It's very hard. It's just like what the activity is. There are very easy forms of doing it. Simply by applying the criteria and requirements of funding that entities that have public money must respect human rights and have no relationship with entities that do not respect them. So it's pretty easy. You're the only one who's done it is to say everyone's doing it wrong, but if his government wants to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights and the right to abortion, they can't finance entities that attack it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.79.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the situation that the Veins are experiencing at the Meridian Occurrence. [[Ask the Government about the situation affecting the lives of the Meridiana Advent in Barcelona]] [[310-00314/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.80.0	Commissioner Elena: have you told this Parliament the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth about the calvary suffered and suffered by the Meridian neighbours?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.81.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.82.0	Yeah, look, it's a costume I have. I tend to tell the truth, and on this subject too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.83.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.84.0	Counselor, it's bad enough for me to have to come here and do something as unpleasant as doubting your word. And I say « doubt for parliamentary decorum, that, if not, I would say something stronger, as strong as the two punches in the head that on May 26 this woman, Isabel Barros, the neighbor of the Meridiana attacked by one of those protesters that in theory no longer exist. You yourself said so and even some political party, which is no longer yours, but certainly keeps grateful memories, boasted of having ended the cuts in the Meridian and all the problems that have brought more than two years later. We, who went many times to accompany the neighbors and to manifest ourselves by their side, also believed that everything was resolved because, you know? We did want it to be resolved, we do want it to be resolved, because for us, unlike for you, there is no friendly or enemy violence; we are not in favour of pardoning anyone who wears a yellow tie, does the barbarity he does; we care what the CoR thinks, if they think; we care what they do, for example, punching a helpless woman in the head. [[the speaker assigns an insured woman in the public sector]] This woman. And when I say 'defensive', I say 'defensive' in the noses of the police. They warned us that this was happening; we went to check it out and it was true. As my colleague Matías Alonso commented yesterday, I saw with my own eyes what happened to Isabel Barros, who ended up in the hospital with cervical contracture and collar. And the police, what was it for? For the police were to say nothing to the aggressor, to whom they let go if he had come, and to refuse to give me explanations when I personally asked the chief of the operation, and that is why I ask you today. I also asked the chief of the operation whether he had any political instructions to act as he was acting; he did not answer me, so I also referred the question to you: do the Mosses have instructions to act, or rather not to act in defense of the neighbours of the Meridian? And if so, how long?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.85.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.86.0	Well, President... Miri, we – he also told his company, Mr Alonso – we are about to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens, and one of them is the right of demonstration. And the right of manifestation is defense that does not authorize or prohibit demonstrations, but that right is guaranteed for the order in force. And we, when there are conflicts and tensions – this is how case law establishes it – do various things. One is mediating, the other is also giving alternatives to those mobilizations, which is exactly what happened in the case of Meridiana from the month of February. It is true that in one day there was a tense situation, and the police acted, as always, proportionally and mediately. Certainly, I would ask you, that you are so friends to talk about concord, "better united, and the dialogue, that you have a different attitude with the media. And, at the same time, I add – and I add it too – that since you defend the Mosso d'Esquadra so much, when you are here posing in doubt what was the behavior of the Mosso d'Esquadra Cos, in the first place, you should have filed a complaint, and, in the second place, do not pose in doubt that you are not under political orders. Because you can't come here to Parliament to say that you defend the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and then, when you have a situation that you don't like, come here to question its integrity, its honorability and its independence. [[Greetings.]] Miri, there were situations in the Meridiana that led to this need to look for an alternative. And know that the groups that opposed the talls no longer call for mobilization. And you want me to tell you something? I have the feeling that they know it hard, that they know it hard that there is no tension, because it's exactly their DNA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.87.0	Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the plans for the deployment of the Fourth Belt project]] [[317-00180/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.88.0	Thank you, President. What plans do they have for the so - called Fourth Belt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.89.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, the strategic mobility plan of Vallès, approved by the Government of Catalonia, sets out actions in the whole area of the two districts in different perspectives, prioritizing the area of the railway. In the concrete field, therefore, of what you mention, at these times there is a tram from Abrera to Terrassa that is under construction. The tram, therefore, that could come to pass between Sabadell and Terrassa will be the object of debate to try to reach a consensus solution that brings together the maximum number of people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.91.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.92.0	Thank you, President. In the last few days we have seen again the little edifying spectacle of his Government of division at the cost of the Fourth Belt, which accumulates thirty years of delay generated in Catalonia itself and which, from boycott to boycott, threatens to run the same fate as the expansion of the airport. Much complaining about others, but you are unable to exercise your own skills where you do have them. Go ahead that every government has an obligation to execute as much budget as possible and not to do so in a management failure to be corrected. And, precisely for that reason, I would like to address this matter rigorously, wherever it comes from. One. In the period 2012-2022, the levels of non-execution of the Government of Spain and the Generalitat have been important and similar: thirty_y_dos_per_cent, Government of Spain; twenty-four_per_cent, Government of Catalonia. Two. The lack of execution in Catalonia during this period has been similar to that of the rest of Spain, except for 2021, which, in fact, draws attention to the disproportionate number of figures. But I must tell you, Mr Aragonès, that trusting Pedro Sánchez is what you have. With all due respect, to unite your political destiny with that of Pedro Sánchez, I see you gaps, but you will know what you do, that you are already older. In any case, other things have happened in 2021 that relate exclusively to you. If they provide 1,700_million to expand an airport and do not, whose fault is it? Of course, of you. And with the Fourth Belt, three-quarters of the same: if you release them, already in times of Íñigo de la Serna, the highways of state ownership, but you refuse to do the same with yours, whose is the fault of the mess that mounts every day? Of course, of you. They have become an authentic hortelan dog, which neither eats nor lets eat and which only barks, in its case – I will not be offended – which complains, swallows, whines without ever offering concrete solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, first thing: the B-40 is the competence of the State – it is the competence of the State – because you say: "Those lives that are of its competence. You, who always remember us clearly – remember clearly – what is the competence of the Generality and what is the competence of the State, and always remember it, and even actively pursue those who, acting with their own skills, you, manipulatively, believe that other skills have been learned, should know. First thing. Next. What we will not accept is that there are short terms in the time that they force us to agree on layouts or models of infrastructure in which there is no broad consensus, and that they do not take environmental aspects into account. Today you have taken advantage of the control session – and it is on your right – to shed light on what was the ruling action of the People's Party in the matter of infrastructure: that ‘rain of millions in the matter of rolling stock, which presented us at the beginning of 2017, and which was turned into a rain of times the U of October when we decided to exercise the right to self-determination. [[Greetings.]] But today it could have taken advantage of..., today it could have taken advantage of this control session to express who is the parent of his party about..., who are behind the leaders of the People's Party of Catalonia, who were behind the Catalonian operation manipulating data, conspiring with the police. And, therefore, he does not ask you to do so under torture – already said Fernández Diaz that neither under torture did those meetings exist – but you, like at least, under decency, could today have clearly expressed your position on this and apologize on behalf of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.95.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the procedure for the urgent purchase of masks at the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic]] [[317-00179/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.96.0	Mr Aragonès, we knew that at the beginning of the pandemic the Generalitat spent 36_million_de_euros to buy masks from a supplier without experience, without personnel and without references. That ghost company was pocketed 24_million_euros of profits – 24. The contract was justified by urgency, but the masks were served nine months later – nine – when the urgency that motivated the contract had already passed. The Generalitat, despite the breach of the basic requirement of the contract, served the masks urgently, paid the 36_million and did not terminate the contract nor demanded the return of the money paid. What do you think this business deserves?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.98.0	Thank you very much. Look, I from you would look more at the reports of the Anti-Fraud Office than you would determine internet websites. I think it would be a good show of parliamentary rigour, because I would see, among other things, first, that this contract that you refer to was audited, reviewed by the Anti-Fraud Office, and said what you said. He said what he said. And this contract hasn't been cancelled. The case against this contract for the Antifrau Office has been filed. So I think I should have a little more rigour. Next thing. The international market of PPE, masks, was absolutely blocked in the months of March, April and May 2020. The usual providers, not of the Generality, but of the rest of the public administration in health care, were left without stock. Sub-administration chains are truncated. So we'd have to go to the other end of the world to get masks, because if we didn't get masks at Catalan hospitals, we'd already been through a very precarious situation. And therefore, we brought to an end the actions that were considered necessary. On the legality, the procedures of this contract, the Union of Accounts has not made any reparations. I'm sorry, but these masks arrived in May. That you find on the Internet some page that you talk about the month of October... Miri's, please, even the entire Anti-Fraud Office report, look at the account union report on this contract, and work harder.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.99.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.100.0	Antifrau said the contract had no legal coverage. His party partner, Alba Vergés, was responsible for health care. His cabinet partner, Mr. Argimon, was the manager of the ICS. You were responsible for the economy. It has been published that..., now, that the woman of the then president Torra, received the call from the environment from which it was lined up with this business and at two_days had the money, 36_million in his account. One of the great opaque businesses in Catalonia is healthcare, and also in the rest of Spain. It's funny that I have to ask this question, I'm sure Mr. Illa will never do it. Why? Because you cover up the shame, because a sort of health socio-vergence still works. Ayuso's brother's scandal left a profit of 4_million_de_euros in his famous operation. This operation left 24_millions, six times more. But there's nothing moving here. You hide, you don't give explanations, you don't ask much about the means – controlled by you, everything has to be said – and what has happened here is that the pandemic has exposed these opaque practices in which some are lined up and others are quiet. Even the pandemic has certainly enhanced these behaviors. Dark operations overcome ethical barriers when there is a call to the highest level and payments are unlocked. Curiously, the president of this Parliament, who does not resign despite being accused of corruption, also made her calls to unlock the payments that others held for her tuft to illegal. His silence in this matter stinks and is obscene. An insult to the Catalans. We have requested a request from you, Mrs Vergés and Mr Argimon to appear. I hope you have the decency to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.102.0	Miri, do you know what's going on? That you don't care about the truth and the explanations. What interests him is to use this for, I don't know if they're making points glorifying Mrs. Ayuso for, after the liquidation, seeing where they're going, I don't know if the actions or the steps of the Ciutadans – I wouldn't know exactly where to put them, to you, in a liquidation of a company. [[Rialles.]] In any case, before a situation of lack of protection material, we had to go until the end of the world and we would do it again – we would do it again – because we had the health care providers of this country with very precarious levels of protection, because all the chains of administration had been interrupted, and you know it perfectly well. And this contract was reviewed for the Account Union, and it was reviewed for the Anti-Fraud Office, and at the end of three days, they already had material here. And we set up control instruments for international trade to ensure that the resources that were put in place, the advanced payments that were to be made..., yes, they were to be made, because otherwise, the planes full of masks that were to be taken out of the Xina bought them another state. And this is the situation we found ourselves two years ago. You seem to have forgotten about that time. I hope I remembered that well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.103.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his self-criticism regarding his personal bet for the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games]] [[317-00182/13]] The question is posed by the deputy David Cid of the Gruppo Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.104.0	Good morning, President. Last month, the president of my group, Jessica Albiach, warned her that her government was at risk of being remembered as the government of failed macro-projects. This prediction came true today. And it's that at the end of the airport's expansion we have to add now also the fraction of the Olympic Winter Games candidacy, a candidacy that since the first moment has been the chronicle of an announced frac and in which you have launched like at least half a million euros; half a million euros, which is just one-third of the ridiculous amount that you have spent in the end against the crisis and the surge of prices. Priority question, I suppose. I know, President, that you will now tell me that it was not your fault, that you have done what you had to do and that the fault is always on the others. But the problem is that it's not that the winter games failed, but that the winter games were already born as a failed project. And it is that, while Juntes and the PSC and – I am also sorry to say – the Republican Left have formed this coalition of the ball, Catalonia is losing opportunities. And that's why we're asking him today: what self-criticism do you make of your personal bet for an application for the games that have already failed today?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.106.0	Thank you very much. We haven't talked about this many times, Mr. Congressman, and I remember it the same way I used to. I think the way you approach this topic should be a little more curative, because it should be a little more coherent. The Prat airport expansion project is a project designed and proposed for the Spanish government, of which you are a part. When you talk about macro-projects, about these proposals for infrastructure or events, you always get rid of that part where governments lead or participate in it. This week the institutional table for the Olympic Winter Games of 2030 was made, and the Barcelona Assembly expressed its willingness to continue betting on this project. I'm celebrating. I am pleased that this project can be an opportunity to contribute to the economic, social and territorial development of the Pyrenees. It doesn't have to be the only project, it doesn't have to be the main bet for the development of this territory. We're clear. We wanted to listen to the territory, and that's why we set up a consultation. We were going to modify the consultation law. You didn't give us the support to ask the citizens of the Pyrenees what they thought about this project. But this is a project that can be an opportunity, and we'll keep working so that's it. We will continue to work and present a project this same month of July so that we can realize the year 2030, because we believe it is an opportunity for the Pyrenees. We like to listen to what the citizenry of the Pyrenees says. Today, most locals in the Pyrenees are asking that we continue to bet on this line. And, obviously, it will always pass through the decision of the citizenry, as we have been promised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.107.0	To answer that question, Mr. David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.108.0	President, Cal Leader. I know what the Vice President of the Government thinks, what the Mayor of Barcelona thinks and what the president of my group thinks about the Barcelona airport and why they put up with it. I don't even know what you think. And I believe that today you have lost the opportunity to make self-criticism, because Catalonia deserves more than a government that treads every day with the same stone. There are three years left of the legislature, and you have the opportunity to make a hundred-and-a-half-degree turn, and a turn that passes to make Catalonia a country of trains and renewable energies, because Catalonia is the scientific pole of southern Europe and also the technological pole, and to preserve our industry and advance in the ecological transition. And a game that also passes to bury the Olympic Winter Games in 2030 and 2034, and to bury the Hard Rock, the biggest casino in Europe. Because I look, President, as I may correct, because while you are the President and his Government, your failures are not only the failures of your Government, they are also, in this case, the mortgage that Catalans and Catalans will have to pay in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.110.0	Mr. Deputy, I am convinced that we can hear each other in many ways and that precisely what you ask to turn one hundred and twenty degrees is not to do it, but it is not to do it because we would go in the opposite direction of what we are working on. And we're working... you're looking at certain concrete areas, but you're looking at the full picture, and the full picture is that today Catalonia is clearly betting for green and digital reindustrialization. We did this, for example, in investments such as Iljin's, announced a few weeks ago, or the bet for European xip, which had also been explained by my government's advisors. And I have to bet on this reindustrialisation. There are infrastructures in the field... You say: "We have to bet on the railway. In fact, the institution that in Catalonia..., the government that in Catalonia has most invested in railways, which has built more kilometers of lives in the last years in Catalonia has been the Government of the Generality. There has been no state government. And I already know that you don't have the Ministry of Transport in the state government, but, in accounts of heading towards the government of Catalonia, look at the government of the state...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.111.0	Time's up, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.112.0	...and contribute with us to reorienting their priorities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.113.0	He asked the President of the Generality to answer orally in the plenary on the implementation of a specific agenda before the government's shortcomings. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the implementation of a specific agenda before the Government of the State failings]] [[317-00184/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.114.0	Yes, thank you, President. President, don't I find the deal that we get from the Government of the Spanish State to be intolerable? And is it not true that this lack of confidence is counting on the continued collaboration of your Government, which is shown to be weak, submissive and without proper project? It is a denial by the Government of the State that harms the lives of the majority of the people, harms the interests of the working class: trains that do not arrive, presuppostary incompliments, school impositions, espionage or projects of the past century, like the Fourth Belt, announced to its banks. How many incompliments, President, fall because the government is planted and pushes forward a country's own political agenda that is not subordinate to abuse and humiliation on the part of the State?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.116.0	Thank you very much, President. This government has its own agenda and, if we could count on its support, we would be much stronger and would not find ourselves many times alone before the state government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.117.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Pains Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.118.0	President, the relationship of the Government of the Generality with the Spanish Government is based on xantatge for governance, for governance. It's a relationship trapped in the autonomous teranyina and they already know that in this relationship to us they won't find us. They'll find us at your side to get out of this teranyina. It's been a year since the legislature, and we're still not planning for the country's people. The empty pictures of contents, such as that of Constellera Vilagrà and Mr. Bolaños, are cartoons that only deepen the internal contradictions between Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya, but the problem is not this photo. The problem is that this photo is attached to the endless list of hard drives that only seek to speculate, espionage, infiltrations... cumulate with those infrastructures that are not fan, public transport, macroprojects that only seek to speculate, espionage, infiltrations and confidants. And before this list, we have the weakness of the Catalan government. A weakness that harms our lives in the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans and that you allow in this mark of loss with your actions and omissions. We're wearing more than a year of high school. The only legal proposal that has been approved here is that of financing measures; for the rest, lack of suitable projects. President, where's the pro-project and the independence and transformation agenda? Where's the punch on the table? Where's it going to be?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.120.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, when you say that the relationship between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State is conditioned by governability, you have very easy: to go back to the car from which you came down, to build bridges of governability and to contribute to the stability of this government. It's his decision. They don't need anything else. It's his decision. And I'm convinced that here we'll find each other and we can build joint proposals with what we're already doing. And this government obviously has its own agenda. We've talked to you many times about the country's economic development models. And you are fixed in some concrete areas. The idea of macro-projects has come back to me right now, and I had commented to you: there is a clear bet for reindustrialisation. We also want them on this clear bet for the country's reindustrialisation and we need to bet on the leading industry. We have an extraordinary opportunity to base the country's economic model, which so many things condition, also in a much more industrial model. We are in a situation where we have the responsibility to take advantage of, and what you consider to be empty pictures of content, so we are meeting where we are going to defend the firm resolution of the political conflict on the basis of exercise and recognition of the right to self-determination, and on the basis of amnesty. And these are also conflict areas and confrontation areas, because obviously there is no agreement on the proposals. But we will continue to work, we will never stop going where we are defending our postulates, to defend what a majority of this Parliament and a majority of Catalan society wants, which is to resolve the political conflict, which Catalonia can decide. And, therefore, we need all the tools and all the support here. I ask them to go back to the car, to exercise the influence that their voters gave them. I am convinced that if it is so and with good will, we will agree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.121.0	He asked the President of the Generality to answer orally in the plenary on the government's inaction in the face of illegal occupation crimes. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's inaction before the illegal occupation crimes]] [[317-00177/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.122.0	Mr. Aragonès, how long will you continue to protect the criminals from the occupation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.124.0	Thank you very much, President. This government doesn't teach any delinquents.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.126.0	Mr Aragonès, the insecurity and degradation of neighbourhoods in Catalonia is increasing, week by week. To the problems arising from the current situation, with an absolutely open inflation, with a very high fiscal pressure and with a political expenditure triggered... Catalan families also have to suffer the consequences of their fanaticism. Yes, his political fanaticism, his economic fanaticism and his social fanaticism. Only thus is it understood that you continue with your arms crossed and seeing as crimes how occupation become structural. And how the physical and legal security of many families is compromised. Many Catalans wonder from their homes why you, Mr Aragonès, should do nothing to combat this scourge. In 2021, Catalonia accumulated more than 42_per_cent of the complaints of usurpation and trespassing in Spain as a whole. The answer to these questions is simple, Mr Aragonese: you are always next to the criminals and are the biggest partner of the crime mafias who have taken Barcelona and the rest of the cities of Catalonia. And in the end, what happens is what we have been denouncing over the past year, which is nothing other than the consequences of their whims, of that alliance of powerful, always paid for by humble families. This same week we have known how the Catalan Agency of Habitatge has registered more than a thousand occupied dwellings. This means that honorable families who have registered with the register of applicants, who have met each and every one of the requirements, who have waited patiently on waiting lists and who, at last, award them a floor in order to be able to carry out their family life project under a decent roof, find that a panda of criminals have laid down their door, occupied the house illegally because you, your government, protect and defend their criminal activity. Mr. Aragonès, choose: either criminals or working families. And your silence, Mr Aragonès, the silence to the current problems of the Catalans and to my questions that I ask you in the control sessions, is the best definition of their political activity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.128.0	Thank you very much, President. We already know that the extreme right is not very much in love with the division of powers, but in our societies, in our system, there is a division of powers that makes when an illegal occupation of a habitat occurs, there is also a need to intervene in justice and to intervene in the courts of first instance. And what won't be done by Mossos d'Esquadra, or by the local police, is to intervene in those areas where the authority or mandate of the courts is needed. What they won't do is intervene without this mandate or this authority. First of all, in respect of the division of powers, a division of powers that the extreme right only remembers – it only remembers – when decisions are taken in a judicial dome captured by the right that favors them and helps them in their program. Today, our country's main problem is poverty and inequality. It is not the origin of people, it is not the political situation that we are living in the country. Today, this is the main problem, and this government is fully compromised with policies in the field of housing. During the pandemic months, a decision was made that prevented denunciations, even in the case of illegal occupations, which were produced during the containment months. And, obviously, the Catalan Habitat Agency complied with this rule laid down in the legal order. From here, once this extraordinary forecast has risen, it has returned to work to regularize and be able to recover those habitats that are of public ownership. And I didn't doubt anyone. Not the doubts of the deputies of the extreme right, who always tried to manipulate the anguish, the pores, the difficulties, the extraordinary reptes that we have, but I did not doubt the people of Catalonia: all the areas of responsibility of the Generality work to guarantee security and to guarantee the freedom of all citizens, from the material freedom that needs redistributive policies, because we cannot make public habitat if they have not imposed redistributive, ends, also, the policies of security, with a police of proximity, a police democracy and a police that always acts in accordance with and bringing to completion the forecasts provided for in the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally to the plenary on the latest developments in political affairs. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the Government's proposals for the dialogue table with the Government of the State]] [[317-00181/13]] Asks the question of Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.130.0	Very honorable president, all the support before the defamations, and all the support also in defense of the rights of the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia. Many honorable president, many congratulations on the day of his saint – today is Sant Pere. [[Widow's remorse.]] Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... Deputy Ordeig, here a « Member of Parliament without thanks to Mr Colau and Mr Collboni, who made it very difficult to get to Barcelona. Very good morning to everyone. [[Greetings.]] In view of Mr. Pedro Sánchez's offer to Junts for Catalonia to participate in the dialogue table, we would like to reiterate our position, which is based on two values: recognition and respect. New recognition by the State of the existence of a political conflict, and respect the sovereignty of this Parliament and its parties, which largely approved the terms of negotiation. President, I know we share that we are aware of what we have before us, who we have before us. We know how they think and we know how they act. In the last twelve years, since the judgment against the State of autonomy, the Spanish government has put forward the table of the political proposal for Catalonia, and the Spanish government has put an end to repression. On the contrary, there is no day that we do not have a new plot of the Catalonia Operation; that if Pegasus, that if crude war, that if Villarejo, if Alicia Sánchez-Camacho and their lists. For this reason, from Juntes to Catalonia we are open to negotiation if there are solid guarantees, such as an agenda and an order of the day around amnesty and self-determination, effective evaluation mechanisms to achieve results and without veto on the part of the State, our interlocutors. If that's the case, together for Catalonia there are, and with the conviction that we have to do it together, because before we have the Spanish State and we have to take every precaution possible. And this last week we have seen clearly, already with a new report from the Council of Europe, which again shows that the Spanish democracy is a defective democracy, or with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which condemned Spain, which condemned Spain to pursue judgments in favour of the right to decide. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, thank you very much for your happiness, and also extendable to Peres and Paus present in this chamber. I welcome your intervention, because we agree on a good part with what you have proposed. You have made it very clear which state we have before us; not only the government but the state we have before us, which denies that it is the vast settlements of a majority of Catalan society. That is why it is essential to take advantage of all the opportunities, which we have, precisely to claim, to demand, to defend these widely shared settlements, that it is a reference to resolve the political conflict and an amnesty to end repression. These are the installations that I have defended, which you have also defended when you have not had the opportunity. He explained clearly in the last twelve years what was the behavior of the Government of the State. We could go a lot further, we could talk about seconds, practically. But it is also true that in the last twelve years, whenever they have not had the opportunity, all the governments of the Generality and all the presidents of the Generality, whenever they have not had the opportunity, that the other side has said that it wanted to listen, whether honestly or not, it is done with the intention..., indeed the willingness to come to terms or some other, have always taken advantage of this opportunity. Even in the most complicated moments of October 17th. So we'll do it now, too. And we have to do it, obviously on condition, we have to do it together, marking, therefore, joint positions, which I think are signs of marking in the sense that they are known, we share them widely. We are working in line with what you were proposing, we are looking at what are the possibilities we have to be able to do this negotiation much more forcefully, and we have news coming from outside the State that we are clearly marked by ways of resolving this conflict. The Cilevics report is a very good full route, which can be defended not only from independence but also from purely democratic postulates, because it does not condition the result as a full negotiating route. We can do this with the Emperor of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I think it's the path, and if we work together, I think we'll get out of it. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.133.0	He asked the President of the Generality to reply on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the actions to investigate the tragedy in the Melilla tank]] [[317-00183/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.134.0	Thank you, President. President... Melilla, drawings of people. They all had a history, but now they're dead. They're names, families, and widows, and they're mortally slapped and politically humiliated after hours. Words can't stand dead. No statement can stand. And the silences, still less. And to stay here, to the superficiality of tragedy, of slaughter, adds cynicism to racism. Why have we been able to gather 7_million people from Ukraine – and we have done so, and luck has happened – but, to avoid its entry, we have killed thirty-seven people fleeing wars and African countries? Only on 2021, 4,404 people died trying to reach the Spanish border, twice as much as the previous year. There is no place in the world where as many migrants die as on the Spanish border. I'm looking into this later. Of course they do, they have to. But that wasn't an accident or an accident. I, yeah, it's indecent. More than fifty asphyxiated people from Mexico to the United States died, and two more disappeared, while in the Mediterranean. We are ahead of an unsustainable life model. A global north that stood up exploiting and polishing the south. These are also our deaths, the deaths caused by our system, our socioeconomic model and, ultimately, our migration policies, our borders. Borders that have been outsourced and are a business for a few businesses. Maybe this is where we need to talk about mobs and violence. The negotiation of the dead on borders that only exist for those who cannot dig them. And whoever survives and digs them is also free of violence and racism, and also from the institutional. From refugee camps to ICES, through racial identification, labour or sexual exploitation or denying them the most fundamental rights. But also on the streets of our towns and cities, where some of you always see and systemically are worth less than others. For all this, the answer cannot remain in a further investigation, which must be done, obviously. The answer is not to congratulate police actions that end with death drawings or bury the dead in a hurry, without explanation or identification, or that there are first and second refugees. We demand responsibility, of course we do. But we know that only one item in the totality of this model can open the path to global justice. For all this, President, what actions are your government taking to mitigate... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.135.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.136.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I agree with your intervention in every step of the way. The one who spent last week in Melilla is absolutely unacceptable. We're talking about human lives. We're used to talking about borders in public debates, in communication media, but we're talking about human lives. And I think what the president of Spanish government can't do is go out and congratulate a police operation where the dead identify themselves as at least in thirty-seven, but promise a background investigation of what happened, because it's extremely difficult. Where are the European values that we are talking about these past few months? Where are the European values? Where can we find them at Melilla's fence? And Melilla's fence is what you see, like Tarajal is what you saw. But there are also many deaths that are produced every week that we do not see because the sea does not let them see, because they are produced in silence, near the sea and shipwrecks. And, therefore, it is essential that a change in migration policy be brought to a conclusion. We have a foreign law that condemns to illegality hundreds of thousands of people who come to us, who are citizens of this country and who see their full incorporation with rights, freedoms, with work integration, with equal opportunities. And that's not just unfair and unworthy of them, but it's unworthy of the society's joint venture. And, besides, it's a lot harder to work. This strong Europe must become a Europe of rights and freedoms, and this also needs change in the global direction. The cock is not guaranteed with more weapons. The pau is guaranteed with more food, especially in the current context. And this has to be the way I'm supposed to go, too. This week there are debates in the field of defence which, of course, have their interest and which must invite us to reflect. I'll match it. You can't be naive about this. But it's also true that I'm missing, we're missing a serious debate about which North-South cooperation policy should be. Because today what causes these migrating phenomena, which are the result, and with a price of food that has been set at thirty per cent, is the result of insecurity, of fanaticism that can be produced in many places in the world. And that's also security terms. So talking about security is also talking... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.137.0	Time's up, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about its involvement before the problem of lack of water to the Garrigues and the collaboration between administrations to solve it]] [[317-00178/13]] He asked the President of the General Council for an oral reply on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.138.0	Madam President, Mr Aragonès... Between the 16th and 21st of June, Catalonia suffered a fire. And I want to begin my intervention in this control session recognize the work of everyone who contributed to its extinction, firefighters, bones and security forces, local police, ADF, volunteers, farmers, pages, mayors, governors. All of them, also the Emergencies Military Unit. And I want to acknowledge and congratulate the work of Councilman Elena, with whom we have serious differences expressed I believe that always with respect and education in this chamber. You did a good job on this occasion, and I want you to leave public witnesses in this room. I would also like to make two good news for Catalonia from this past day. The first, the largest industrial rescue of the history of Espanya, 550_million euros to a Catalan company, Celsa, which approved the Council of Ministers meeting in Madrid, not Kuala Lumpur. The second, Barcelona will be yours at the Mobile World Congress, as at least, until 2030. Common denominator of these two good news is collaboration, collaborativeness. Work together, add, contribute, make politics useful. I also want to recognize the role of the Government of Catalonia and yours, Mr Aragonès, on these two good news. And I want to ask you something. I want you to pay attention to the Garrigues. Garrigues are also Catalonia. There is half this region and part, some municipalities, of Segria, twenty-five municipalities, almost eight thousand people, two weeks without drinking water. And all the help they've given up fifty thousand euros from Lleida's Diputation to buy water bottles. It seems very insufficient to me. Mr. Aragonès, I found here missing more involvement of your government. We're talking about drinking water, we're talking about finally solving a problem that brings years of cooking. And I want to give him my support and that of my group, if you need it, to finally resolve this situation. And I want to ask him if he's ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, when you can work together, when you can co-decide, when you generate the confidence mark to work shared projects – not imposed, but shared – then we go well. And you mentioned two examples. The Mobile World Congress, which has worked together with the leadership of Fira de Barcelona, which I all believe we need to recognise its professionalism. And what is, therefore, this solution, this rescue funding, about Celsa, in which there has been full collaboration between the two governments, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. There have been work of different advisors, of myself as well, as President, and also, obviously, of ministers and the respective President of the Government of the State. Therefore, when you can work together, do not decide one and the other apply it, but when you can work together, you can move forward. We have another opportunity. We didn't talk. This very control session has taken place, and I think we need to take advantage of it. Catalonia has the potential to allocate the entire semiconductor value chain, with the semiconductor loss announced for the government of the State and also within the framework of Europe's strategic autonomy projects. We have the chance and we have all the actions. I am convinced that, if we work the same way – co-cident –, if it is also work, then, giving opportunities to everyone to tell him his own and assume the paper that surrounds him, we will get out of it. On the Garrigues, there is the community, which does water management, which the door has been making for many years. The situation we've seen these days is not new. It has occurred in other years, especially this year, sharpened by the lack of plugs that makes the contaminant elements have more on the water joint. Therefore, it also needs investment in infrastructure. We will work together, as Councillor Vilagrà said before, with the Commonwealth of Garrigues, so that the lines of help for the construction of water infrastructures..., and improve the connections to look for some..., so that what must be alternative water sources can be brought to an end. We will work together and this is our will. In the whole area of the Conca del Segre, if we have, moreover, the collaboration of the CHE, it will already be fantastic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.141.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.142.0	Catalonia has a sufficient level of prosperity to ensure that no city of Catalonia is two weeks without drinking water. I ask him for his personal involvement in this issue, because he has not returned to producing what happened these past two weeks, and working together all over the world, also in Catalonia. That's why it allows me to ask again what was a compromise we made, which opened a dialog between Catalans. Mr. Batet spoke of a dialog. I agree. All the way, in different formats, also between Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.144.0	Thank you very much, President. We will continue to work and lend and continue to pay close attention to the situation in the Garrigues and everywhere. I, respect the dialog, fix proposed themes. Fixin proposed themes. I have said that; I have said that in other control sessions. Fixed proposed themes and, above all, if we can resolve the political conflict with its support, it will be a step forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.145.0	After the control session, we proceed to the next item on the agenda, the debate and the vote on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for an automatic deposit guarantee law in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and guarantee in access to banking services. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a law guaranteeing the automatic depository service in municipalities at risk of financial and guarantee exclusion in access to banking services (continuation)]] [[270-00004/13]] As you know, once the plenary agreed to the single reading of the proposal, we will proceed today to the debate and final vote on this initiative. In the first place, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists Units for Progress will intervene, which has presented papers to the joint, and later the rest of parliamentary groups to position themselves. The speaking time will be two minutes for all parliamentary groups. The first word is Mr Jordi Riba, Member of the Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.146.0	Thank you, President. President, Members, Members, we finally find ourselves at the back – at least in this chamber – the processing phase of this proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies on the proposal for a law guaranteeing the automatic depositing service in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and of guaranteeing access to banking services. As we have indicated in previous interventions on this issue, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Units for Progress, we believe that this proposal, while, in our view, having limitations, some significant from the point of view of addressing the problem of financial exclusion, as it affects access exclusively to caixers in municipalities at risk of exclusion, we believe that it represents a positive contribution to the approach and adoption of measures aimed at the better of this important problem affecting thousands of citizens. For this reason, already the advance that our vote will be in favour of presenting this proposal to the Congress of Deputies so that it is processed to the General Courts. However, as I have said, we consider that there are limitations – in our view – that arise from the point of view of the comprehensive approach to the problem. In this sense, the papers presented for our group were in the line of manifesting this question and in some cases, as in the proposal to insert the barrels of large cities as the object of the standard's attention, in the line of equipping them also with banking services. We understand that barrels are not an administered element of simple definition. But this does not mean that these barrels or that in these barrels the problem of lack of financing services is perfectly homologable to the huge problem that is in the small municipalities. Thus, we believe that personalized care, timetables, simple and accessible access technologies, security in broad terms of access to banking services are also essential elements and that they affect the financial exclusion, as well as having proximity boxes to avoid the risk of financial exclusion, as many municipalities in this risk as people who are also in this risk independently of being viscous. However, as I have commented, we will vote in favour of the rule as we consider, as I said, that it adds up and can contribute to the debate on solutions. We must also do with a certain strangeness of the fact that this proposal, which today will be put to the vote to present to the Congress, is already going to the Congress. If more not in its original version, which, with a few added elements in the process in this chamber, is basically the same. On March 31st, Junts for Catalonia presented the proposal to the Senate and May 11th was discussed in consideration of the proposal to the same Senate. That is to say that this consideration was approved almost unanimously and, therefore, sent back to Congress to be processed and where the deadline for the presentation of papers to the Economic Affairs Committee is at these moments, concretely since June 7th. I make this comment in the measure that it is still unique that the same rule is the object of two legislative initiatives and, if I may, of a certain lack of coordination that this fact may manifest. All the differences that may be in the process, in a way, these legislative initiatives will have to converge in their process in the Congress into a single norm. There's no sense in this duplicate. In any case, it is interesting to read the interventions and positions of the different groups in the Senate, in the measure that there are manifest questions similar to those raised here. As is now that of the Republican Left Group to the Senate on the question that was created in the Senate at the initiative of this group to study the exclusion financed in global terms or on the installation of proximity boxes in rural areas, but also in urban areas that do not have them, and also on the attendance in these financial services. Or that of the senator for GNP, which also means that the guarantee would have to reverse the exclusion will finance both in rural and urban areas. It seems, therefore, that the points proposed for our group here in Parliament are in absolute harmony with questions raised by different groups in the Senate and which therefore form part of the debate that focuses on us and in which we are immersed. For another band, it will also take into account some of the more technical features, if you want, some other considerations. The rule that today will be subject to consideration and voting requires entities to finance payment and withdrawal service providers authorized to collect deposits that are holders of automatic deposit boxes in Spanish territories and that have a bank file of the Bank of Spain. It can be put into question so that they stay out of the obligation, and therefore count on advantage, branches of community entities that have a higher volume of deposit in our country and that will not be subject to this obligation. It may also be questionable that entities that have decided to operate through the caixer network of other entities do not have the cost fitted to this obligation. As for the mandatory installation by means of an advance request, the criteria for selecting the distribution of caixers to be installed between the entities are based on the market share calculated as a function of their provincial implementation calculated in relation to their volume of deposits, but also of prestecs and beasts. It is possible to question the fact, also, of including in the market share that of prestecs and beasts. The requirement is for entities that can take deposits and customers will normally operate on them, not on their loans, while they have remained out of the obligation of other entities that can grant loans. We understand that this is an inconsistency, a possible inconsistency of the norm. Neither do the caixers that already have the entity in the province, as much existing ones as the voluntarily installed ones, are taken into account at the time of the distribution. In this way, there is no incentive because the entities in the boxes will not change the name of those who are required to do so. This same happens for what it does to the mandatory installation by means of the subsidiary execution. Finally, we believe that we should also fill in a set of measures already taken by the State at the level of Spain on three fronts. The first is the promotion of adoption for banking entities in a series of commitments, between them to facilitate to the great people the preferred telephone service, without additional cost and through a personal interlocutor, and to adapt to the needs of the great people mobile applications and web pages. The second: regulatory measures, such as the contingencies in the law protecting consumers and users against situations of social and economic vulnerability, to which I have already referred in previous interventions on the processing of this law, or which will be included in the law of customer support services and the law of client defense financing. And, finally, the initiations for the better of training in digital competitions in the mark of the investments of the recovery plan. Specific actions have been planned for the digital formation of the older population, especially in rural areas, and 140_million euros have also been transferred to the autonomous communities for the development of basic digital skills, with special attention to the most vulnerable communities. As I said, we find ourselves in front of a complex problem that could be addressed by different measures, as we have maintained and supported the length of this debate in different stages in this chamber, but we understand, as I said, this proposal as a positive contribution, and for this reason, as I said, we will give it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.147.0	Thank you very much. After the defense of the papers presented to the joint, then to position himself, has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.148.0	Good morning. Counselor... I was looking where the president was, because he was a moment ago, but it turns out he's gone, to say hello. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, well, three weeks later we shall be talking again in this plenary about the presentation to the State, which must be remembered once again that it is responsible for this matter, as stated in Article 149 of the Constitution. We are talking about a proposal for a law with the aim of ensuring that all municipalities have an automatic cash machine for use by citizens. Well, the new thing about what we talked about three weeks ago is that to the proposal that the two groups that support the government, Junts and..., well, that make up the government, Junts and Esquerra Republicana, plus the two that support it or have supported it for a while, the CUP and In Comú Pomera, we have to add seven amendments that the Socialists put forward. Good. We said three weeks ago that there is indeed a problem of access to banking services for certain groups of society, elderly or dependent people who have not been able to join the digital world and have difficulty in accessing certain services, not just banking, huh? But we're talking about services, cashiers, bankers, financials, not just this. And also people living in small municipalities, he added "in some neighbourhoods, it is also true, but indeed..., the previous speaker, socialist, has spoken of the difficulty, has he not? , of the legal concept of 'neighbourhood', to determine, but, well, it is true that it exists and that these..., therefore, in many small municipalities and in some neighbourhoods, because there are no ATMs or bank offices to be able to carry out operations. This problem exists and it is the duty of the State to try to resolve what is needed to improve the quality of life of its citizens. We also said, three weeks ago, that this bill was short, or was just talking about ATMs, that even in order to use a ATM it is necessary to have tools and knowledge that some of these people lack, do not have them. But there was no talk of banking services in general. The amendments tabled by the Socialist Group seem to be in line with this, but although they mention access to banking services, their amendments have a poor and confusing wording, which is not well known what they are proposing. With regard to the rest of the initial content of the proposal for a law, there is no further change; thus, they continue to consider that the provision of this service should be an obligation for financial undertakings, so they must bear all costs. Nor does it mention that, in our view, it is the most important problem of this proposal, that it is a state competition, which no one doubts. So, since the four proposing groups, Esquerra Republicana, Junts, the CUP, In Comú Puem, as the group that has tabled the amendments, the Socialist Group, are represented in the Congress of Deputies, does this not seem logical, instead of talking about it here, to be spoken there? In addition, the Socialist speaker has given us concrete details, with specific dates, of specific tasks and actions that the procedures carried out in the General Courts, has he not? So, let's ask. What are we doing here? Why do these gentlemen waste our time in this Parliament in Catalonia on a subject which we are not competent to deal with at the same time in the General Courts? I don't have the answer. You'll know why you do it. It certainly seems absurd to us. From VOX we believe – and we have proposed this in the Congress of Deputies – that the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that financial services are a basic and essential social service for the elderly and dependent. Especially in rural areas. And that agreements and commitments should be promoted with financial institutions to ensure their access and face-to-face. Important, face-to-face. As well as adequate service to your needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.149.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.150.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. It's the third time we're discussing this. So we'll try not to say the same thing every time. But I'd start by giving a sifra, dynou_mil. Dinou_mil is the xifra that we could assign to the private bank on 2021, 19,866_million euros of benefits on 2021, five banking entities: Santander, BBVA, CaixaBank, Sabadell and Bankinter, and Dinou_mil people hosted on 2021, to the private bank. In concrete terms, 18,957; basically, of five banking entities: Santander, CaixaBank, Sabadell, BBVA and, instead of Bankinter, Unicaja ; dynou_mil, as a summary of what is the bank and what was the bank in 2021. In fact, since 2008 124,000 jobs have disappeared from the sector throughout the State. Tanking caixers and offices is a way to bring people together, isn't it? And, therefore, here we have to address this, too, because taking in more than a thousand people has consequences and above all has victims. It is the welcome workers, the pre-retirement workers, the non-renewal workers, but the others who have been of special relevance, which has caused, too, that today there is this proposal of law here is the attention to the citizen, since the load of attention has spread, of 167 inhabitants per bank worker in 2008 has passed to more than three hundred inhabitants per bank worker in 2021. It is obvious that before that means that the attention to the city is getting busy, that there are some consequences that go much further than it is people who are unworkable or difficult to access by boxing. And we haven't talked about it before, but it's still a moment of concern and concern. Of the 947 Catalan municipalities there are 502 that do not have a banking entity, nor do they have an automatic box. This poses a manifesto which is the type of attention they want to give to this private bank, which I remember, 19,800_million euros of benefits in 2021. In 2015 there were 4,910 banking offices opened in Catalonia. There's 2,308 now. Well, at the end of 2021, at a very high rate, it's probably a few minutes away. But it is the one that in 2008 there were 8,148. The thing we say is clear, what's going on. But we're still making names. Before he spoke of five banking entities: Santander, BBVA, CaixaBank, Sabadell and Bankinter. Who's the entity that's been closing the most branches in the territory for the last seven years? In the first place, BBVA, with a thousand smaller offices, from 1,402 to 401. And he took over and bought... Well, it wouldn't be... It's a little ironic, Catalunya Banc. And it's the one that's shut down the most of the offices. Second place, CaixaBank, with Bankia, taking into account the merger, which has gone from 1,600 to 911. And later, the Bank of Santander. It's all about ranquing. And five, let's go to the three-way, which are exactly the same. And we could add the Sabadell Bank, which has also not closed from 713 to 383. And it's that if we look through barrels then we add that these locks have a clear class bias. It's tanked to the most impoverished barrels. It is tanked to the people with fewer inhabitants. But there's a logic to pursuing benefits and abandoning those people who already have the most difficulty in accessing a service such as the banking service, which pleases us more or less, is absolutely indispensable for our lives. So that all this was linked or related to the banking concentration process, too, wasn't it? It is a logic of centralization, the banking concentration with centralization that causes is the expulsion, each time more, of people from a basic service. And let me get a little, maybe, over the caixer theme, but not the bank. Because I need to take perspective, too, since we're talking a lot about banking, what banking means and what banking is, if we're talking more about this five-fold. Perspective of what is the bank's business with two topical themes. One is war and the other is inflation. Because if we're talking about war, right? , and we're talking about Santander, BBVA, CaixaBank, Sabadell and Bankinter, we're talking about the armed bank. We are talking about the financial entities involved in the arms negotiation by means of the main types of financing in the arms sector that exist. Now that we're in the middle of the NATO summit, it's good to remember... NATO-armamentist industry, they're two cares of the same coin they need to survive. And at the middle there's the bank, because the armament industry needs the bank to survive. The bank holds caixers, while it does not stop investing in the arms industry. And, in fact, each time it increases more this reversal. I thought it was the NATO summit. I would also like to remind you that everyone here referred more than a year ago to Master Arcadi Oliveres when he died, he, as the main whistleblower of the armed bank, has this week a week of Arcadi Oliveres memory in the city of Barcelona. And according to the theme, I said, war and inflation. Today, this morning, we see how inflation is up and up at the highest rate in thirty-seven years. Inflation is one of the greatest curses of all countries and of all bodies responsible for maintaining financial stability and the economy on the surface. From central banks to the IMF. To the problems of the squandering of products coming from Asia caused by the closure of the ports during the pandemic is added the energy crisis. In fact, the recovery – supposed recovery – economic, after the release of the toughest pandemic times and the fission of restrictions, was truncated by the escalation of the prices of the first materials, of the energy of gas and of the hydrocarbons, which have been accelerated by the invasion of Russia to Ukraine. But we know what inflation means. Because there are those who attribute or speak or explain inflation as a monetary phenomenon. Defend the bidding of types of interest on the part of central banks as the best measure to cool the economy and reduce prices, but the reality tells us that this is a fraud. A push of the type that causes is a push of the Euribor, which, in fact, is now growing, only with the announcements that the expansionary policy of the European Central Bank will soon come to an end. This increase of the eribor causes the shares of the mortgages of all that person or family that has the prestec referenced in the eribor pugin. And that leads to lower disposable income. And this ends up producing or tending or translating into less consumption. I, therefore, in a great economic recession. But we also know and go on to more everyday things, from what we see every day and what we have seen for years. We know what it means to push mortgages: houses without people and people without homes. In fact, by 2021, of the more than 9,800 denunciations that there was in Catalonia, there were 1,785 that came from mortgage execution. And here, a message to the bank, to this five. They make us out of the house and over they tank the caixers, which is often the only place where a lot of people can go to sleep. In the background, that people have a place to live there is the same. They worry about the 19,800_million euros of benefits of 2021. The capitalist oligarchy in the fund that seeks is self-producer. And to self-produce what it wants is to destroy without doubt competitors, workplaces, the environment and phone rights: habitating, hosting, caixers and the expulsion of people from a basic service such as the funded services. And he said before, the law or the logic of centralization of capital, that the banking dynamic responds to the various processes of banking concentration; it is an economic trend, yes, but it is political. And political decisions. So before – I think he was the socialist deputy – he was talking about the necessary global approach. We would say, this law – and we said it – is a very minimal part of what needs to be done. The global approach passes through a public bank. And not just a public bank to become or to be a bank serving the productive and reproductive economy, which takes away immediate gains and volatility from financial and speculative markets, but also to be a proximity bank, which guarantees information and understanding of its products by citizens, operates with simple and understandable products and ensures equal information. A bank that respects the social use of housing. And I come back, that there are no more 19,000_million benefits in one year for those who drive us out of the house, who take us in, and who, in the background, seek never to respect the rights, because they only look for their own benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.151.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.152.0	Well, then, good morning. We will talk another time about financial exclusion and access to banking services, which is the proposal of law that we present with other groups to the Congress of Deputies so that it can be debated and hopefully approved. From the outset, put in value that we are exercising the capacity of the Parliament of Catalonia to propose to the Congress of Deputies a legislative measure, a legislation. And this is important: to take advantage, say, of this right that we have, and that we should not forget on other occasions, because we can contribute from the own capacity of the Parliament of Catalonia to the fact that from the Congress of Deputies it is also possible to legislate in favour of the interests of the joint citizens of the State and, obviously, also of Catalans and Catalans. Certainly, in this bill we are not talking about cashiers; we are talking about financing exclusion and we are talking about access to banking services. And this is where we talk about caixers. It's not because we're talking about cashiers, it's about access to bankers. And it is in this sense that, from the outset, in relation to the papers submitted for the Socialist Group, I would like to say that I consider them all to be acceptable, because I believe that they help improve up to and all the text initially presented; clarify some questions with regard to banking services, the concept of banking services, and also reinforce the idea of access to these banking services of people. From this point of view, we believe that all items do not contradict, but supplement and improve in part the text initially presented. Certainly, the bill speaks of social equity and territorial equity. The situation is that the lack of access to banking services generates exclusion to finance people, certainly, because of their social condition, that digital exclusion, the digital Britain, especially large people, but also that financial exclusion that is produced because there are territories that do not have basic services, in this case the financial services. Therefore, try, this proposal of law, to stand in favor of improving territorial equity and social equity. And, certainly, this law proposal has to be presented in the framework of a given context, and it is the context in which the sector has operated to finance these last years, especially since 2008, since the financial crisis, 2008; the financial crisis and bank rescue; the financial crisis, the bank bailout and the exclusion from financing from the company. And this is the context in which this initiative is produced. Since 2008, in our State we have gone from eighty-eight funded entities to two funded groups. There has been a clear process of bank concentration, of concentration of financial entities; from eighty-eight to god. Has this financial concentration process helped the citizenry? It's obvious not, it's obvious not. It has not helped the citizenry because this process of financial concentration was carried out precisely, in principle, by the first plants that had these financial entities. From 2008 to 2021 115,000 work places have been lost, 115,000 work places have been depreciated, 115,000 work places have been taken over by the funded entities. Has this support from the financial institutions improved bank services? No, no, We have lost, from 2008 to now, in the conjunction of the State, 23,000..., more than 23,000 offices, fifty-per-cent fewer offices than there were. There were more than 46,000 offices; now there are 23,000 offices, 50 per cent of offices have been lost, which has led to the fact that, if before a clerk 167 people, now a clerk of these offices are attending three hundred people; worse serve the city and the citizen. The offices before were located around 1,500 people in its territory; now they are located in more than 2,500 people in its territory; the city, the user, the person who needs to use the banking services is served worse. So, we've gone from eighty-eight to one funded entity. In this process of bank concentration, of financial concentration, there has been no improvement either social or labor; it has been due to the rights of the citizenry, to the access of the citizenry, but also, so to speak, to the places of work; it has been a process that ends up being unsustainable and irresponsible by the financial entities. And while that was happening, we can't help but see that only in these two later years, huh? , from 2018 to 2021, the benefits of financial entities have increased by thirty-four_per_cent, and the sum of the presidents and CEOs of these financial entities has increased by more than thirty-seven_per_cent. The result of this context is this exclusion to finance, this exclusion from the access to banking services from the good part of the citizenry that is living in territories, unfortunately, that are buiding from basic services, also from the financing service, but not only from the financing service. And it is also posing difficulties for a good part of the citizenry, which does not have the tools of knowledge or abilities sufficient in digital terms to be able to fully maintain its social inclusion and finance. Therefore, it is in this context, of conversion, of rescue of the banking service, where this proposition of law appears. I think, I insist, they're better at writing. And what they claim is, in the end, to put the banking services considered as basic in order to avoid the exclusion of the citizenry, but also to make it clear that this cannot be done at the expense of the public economy, at the expense of the public assumption. This obligation of the financial entities to serve the citizenry, by placing boxes in the municipalities at risk of being excluded from financing, but also by mitigating face access, direct telephone assistance also to people, this cannot be done on account of the public assumption, but must obviously be taken on account of the results of the financial entities, either directly or still on account of, say, the specific factors determined for this purpose. Therefore, it is not imputable to public assumptions, but to direct assumption by the sector of the costs to be borne by the fight against the exclusion to be financed. I, of course, take on costs, but also take on risks on the part of the funded entities. And, from this point of view, it may also be worth noting that it will be the municipalities that will have to determine the location and functioning of the caixers in their territories to ensure the access of the citizenry. That is why we value positively, as we said at the time, this law. Otherwise, obviously, we wouldn't be proposing it with the other groups. And, in this sense, we also insist that we also value positively and accept the papers presented by the Socialist Group. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.153.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.154.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Returns, or Returns, to this proposal made by different groups on the financial exclusion and the guarantee of banking services. I think that this subject, as we have commented on in the last Ple, is a subject that, like at least, is treatable if it can be implemented quickly and efficiently... President, I think the clock is not... [[Pause.]] Thank you, thank you for this extra time; I will not make him serve. As I said before, I just think that this law proposal is useful or, if it's useful, it's appropriate if it's quicker and more complete, isn't it? We believe..., or at least in the first debate we have already doubted the chosen formula, this unique reading, because it is not an easy law, it is a complex law; it is not two articles, but it is complex, and I think that it would have been much more useful if it had been able to debate extensively in a question. But it's also obvious that a good part of the competitions you're dealing with are not here, but they're at the Congress. And we also know that there is already debate in the Congress, or at least it is already in a process, a similar law, I feel, say, certainly euphemistic, similar or identical, better said, in the same..., in the Senate and then..., now it is in the Congress. And I think we'll get there late, it won't be any use for this debate, and maybe we won't get what we want. But, well, here we are, we have agreed again, therefore, to discuss a topic that possibly the only one who seeks is that some may say to their territories – mayors and local governments – that they are working on solving a problem that citizens have. But, in fact, one more time we find ourselves not working or not doing anything at all. We are not effective in these processes, and I mean we are not effective in this type of legislative initiative in this Parliament. I have criticized many times, and our group has criticized many times, including resolutions that we do not implement, but that sometimes we promote legislative initiatives that will not go forward or that will not be useful. But, well, beyond the form, he also spoke, if we go into the background of the law, of the inability to settle all the objectives that this problem requires. We have a problem essentially of bank exclusion, it is true, of banking services that have already in some way become a species of right acquired for the citizenry in different ways, say, spaces. One is territorial deprivation, which is obvious and which is being debated and which is the foundation of this law. And also, obviously, the way in which this service is given and the inability to respond directly that a city, especially the most vulnerable, needs to get to have or to form part of these services. Here I have to thank them for one of the papers presented by the Socialist Group, the last one, because it was one of our demands and I think it covers a good part of what we asked for the other day, and today we say it again. One was that, apart from dealing with or ensuring that there are any banking services or offices in the territory, I think we should separate the office from the banking service. It's not the same as having access to a cashier who has direct access to a bank office. As much as we believe that a good part of the problem we find ourselves today is precisely that it is not a proper service – and here goes the rest of our demands – to the banking offices, at least it is not a suitable service..., perhaps the counselor, of this, will know more, but I think that it is not a service..., or at least the ordinary service, the traditional one has gone lost in time and is no longer giving this direct response to the citizen. I think we need to improve resources, or we need to improve human resources and personalized attention tailored to the vulnerabilities of different spaces, especially those that are digital. We believe that boxes have to be adapted – and this too, therefore, appears to this item – to facilitate, to give easy and quick access to that city that has no reason to know how a boxer works, which, moreover, has different operating systems depending on which entity. A subject that has not been discussed very much: it must be ensured, therefore, that it is safer and that these procedures are safer before possible scams. And then I think I'm already separating boxes of attention, in this case, from offices, adapting or flexing response times. And that has to be added many times to other aids, as can be, therefore, the formations in the digital space that must be given to a good part of the citizens so that they can get to have, or acquire, or at least be able to interact with this service. All this should be in a law that wants to respond to the needs of the citizens. I think it's not there, in this law; it's incomplete, and therefore, for us, so it's not useful, it won't be useful. But, well, it's true that maybe at this point, so, you want to give more importance to the fact that it looks like something is being done than something is actually being done. And this has to be done, in order to end the territorial differences of the rural world with the urban world, also in the cities, between the periphery or the centre or in metropolitan areas, areas, therefore, if possible many banking offices, following a market logic..., we have also sometimes listened to some interventions and some were surprised that some entities come out and some branch tanks when, in fact, we have or have traditionally held more branch offices in Spain per inhabitant than other countries in Europe, but they are sometimes alienated from the fact that in this market logic they are tanquin offices. I wouldn't alienate myself; we're talking about the banking world, and we don't have to alienate ourselves that this happens and that we don't have to give that answer. Which we certainly have to regulate or do better than this, but at least you do, because this can be regular or it can be compensated. But, well, apart from that, I think it has to end with these camp-city differences, many times between socioeconomic levels, differences between collections, including collections... so, he set the example on another day of emigrants who can't access it because they don't have access to the language directly and don't know it. So I think all this kind of difference we'd have to be able to solve with a law like that. This law is not what we're approving today, but I think it should be more extensive. In order to continue and, in fact, I already practically believe that in order to finish, I believe that there is also a need to cooperate more with banking entities, to talk more with banking entities, to implement or, at least, to promote forms of public-private collaboration that can, therefore, not impose, but often to promote better services for citizens, to improve protocols, to improve commitments. And I think that many times this would be the right camp or path. We, having seen the text, as we said the other day, having seen the papers, believe that we cannot vote against it, basically because the background and the need exist. We shall, in fact, vote in favour, in this case, of the papers and also of the same text, knowing or feeling aware that it will not be useful, once more, I believe, and I am very sorry to say, of nothing, or at least will not give an answer to this need. But, well, in the end, I think we also need to know that the foundation or the claim of the foundation is also important. Thank you, deputies, deputies, president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.155.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.156.0	Thank you, President. We are ahead of an initiative that, although it has aspects that are not very clear and even a few far from the reality, we consider it necessary. Mr. Andres Bello, VOX spokesman, is right, when he's moved that we may be ahead of a sterilized double, that's right, but we can't speak in a round-the-clock competitive invasion. Therefore, for a time in life that does a legal thing, we do not possess gypsies, and I think that we can perfectly, from this Parliament of Catalonia, translate an initiative of these characteristics; it enters between the competitive field, therefore fem-ho. In order not to insist on the mass we have already repeated in the previous debate, but it is an idea that for us it is the one that drives, therefore, our support for an initiative of these characteristics, beyond the nuances and some interventions that have felt here that obviously we cannot share, right? The banking system, in general, has advantages and structural advantages that are not the result of free competition or its merits, so that it is understood, but of the market's own regulation, and, consequently, to return these structural advantages to society, it has obligations, one of which is to guarantee the universality of the financial services. This is indisputable, and therefore this is what we are talking about. The text, even after the exams, continues to have shortcomings: the guarantee fund is not very well defined; the counter-performances..., if a boxer has to go into a private building, it is not very well defined, and leaves a legal void of difficult solution. Do you think they're better with the text? Consider it a yes. So we'll give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.157.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, public that you accompany us, well, not to reiterate what we have already been repeating in this Parliament since the Counselor Giró presented this initiative of the Department of Economy, I will try to illustrate it a little, eh? and, therefore, to change a little the speech that, in fact, we are going to repeat all the groups. Mr Verdaguer, Vidrá, Girona province, ninety years, no longer drive well. Disappoint the nets to dinar and they want to give them a little detail; they say to him, "Give me a drink. Mr. Verdaguer, at the age of ninety, does not know what this is about the bizum or how to make it go, and says: "I will go to Sant Quirze de Besora to collect four money from the boxer. All right. On a working day, 7.35 a.m., he went to Sant Quirze de Besora, up at 7.55 a.m., to pick up the cashier's money, but until 2.30 p.m. he didn't push the bus again. Up to 1450. There were seven hours and a quarter; seven hours and a quarter, he's a retired person; we could think, "Well, he's been through morning..., but it's seven hours and a quarter. If he did it late, he would have to leave at 1450, but he could not return to Vidrá until he left at 7.15; he would have to sleep in Sant Quirze, and perhaps his wife would say, "What did you do this night? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. O the lady Remei, from Setcases. They have a restaurant at their house. Seventy years, it's younger, but it doesn't drive. And the daughter, facing the end of the week... the end of the week, multiply by the end of the population of Setcases, they need cash, they need cash for the restaurant, and they have to go to Camprodon, which is very close. I leave at 8:30 a.m., if it's a working day, because there's a school bus, luckily; up to Camprodon at nine, but in order to get back up, he has to wait at 1.50 p.m., and up to Setcases at 2:20 p.m. Six hours; six hours to do a simple operation, that many metropolitans, so, you're going to any corner, huh? And you have a caixer to do this operation. To set an example, so as not to weigh me down. Beget, Garrotxa region, municipalities of Camprodon, Dinou inhabitants. The social services of the Social Welfare Consortium are asked to bring you a bank statement for the law of dependency. Mrs. Engràcia, obviously, for her age neither leads nor has any family, close, that she can carry, therefore, will go to Camprodon, from her own municipal term, but located almost twenty-five meters, by bus. If it's a school day, he'll be lucky there's a school bus, and he'll be out at 7.15; he'll be in Camprodon at 7.55. He'll go to the cashier or the office, if it's open that day, huh? You can do this operation, take out an extract asking for Social Welfare, and you'll be back at 2.30 p.m. He'll be in Beget at 15.20. Eight hours, eight hours to do this. He'll be down late, poor Engràcia, he'll have to make it back. They are examples of people, such as these five hundred and five that Mrs. Reguant has mentioned, who regrettably do not have the essential basic service that is an open banker or office. If we add that there is not a school day, and therefore there is no school transport, if we add mobility difficulties, because not all the buses that make the service are adapted to people with reduced mobility, they will have to serve another service, which also exists, fortunately, that is transport to demand. You will have to call a few days before the local council, ask for a transport service on demand, and, of course, that day to the bus that the service is doing..., or you will be able, therefore, to hire a vehicle of which you are in agreement, and you will be able to travel, surely if you are on the bus, at the same time, if you are with a service, therefore, on demand, possibly a little less; transportation on demand that, by the way, year 19, the city councils of the mountain saw reduced to fifty_per_cent, the government's contribution, and 2020, after the pressure, was recovered, a service also essential: to be able to provide these great people, without proper mobility, to serve a service to the general government, and 2020, after the pressure, is recovered, a service also essential: We're talking geographic exclusion. We are talking about people in which these people I have mentioned, the Remei, the Engràcia, Mr Verdaguer, do not have equal opportunities to continue living in these people. But we're also talking about small businesses that develop in these towns and that don't have equal opportunities, for example, to be effective, huh? , or to make bank transactions, because, if you don't have a car, the situation is complicated, as we have said, very much, although we have a country with coverage of regular lines or transport lines on demand. And so it's also a country luxury, but obviously they can't cover all the hours of the day, as I thought. Therefore, we have a country problem, a country problem that we cannot think of as living in a remote town in the city has fewer opportunities. So, we're talking about depopulation or we're talking about who wants to invest or want to do business... watch where you do it, because you're going to have these difficulties. And it shouldn't be that way; it shouldn't be that way if we really believed in territorial balance and that, to any people or any region, we would have to have the same rights: social, educational, security, essential services, such as financing. In Catalonia there are more than a quarter of a million citizens who suffer from this phenomenon, this phenomenon of banking desertion, and, therefore, which involves a certain geographical exclusion. As the country, we have to give an answer; as the country, the Councillor Giró made a proposal, from the department, which today completes the parliamentary process, and which, unfortunately, is a competence that is not of our country, because, as I have said other times, we have to give an answer to our citizens, who ask us and demand as if we were a state, but we are not a state. There are skills that still depend on the state of the coast, as is the regulation of banking services. But we must give them answers to the citizens, to the Remei, to the Engracia, to Mr Verdaguer and to these more than 250,000 inhabitants, of more than five hundred people in our country; we must give them answers as governments and as legislative action. It's our duty, too, as parliamentarians, to legislate because everyone has the same... equal rights and rights. Therefore, it is a proposal that here we will complete a process of sending it to the Congress. Of course, we should be a good country, as we claim, to be able to legislate and regulate banking services. If that were the case, we would complete it here, and we could certainly make a much more complete law, as Mr Riba has said, as other parliamentary groups have said, which takes into account many other phenomena: digitization, the issue of consumer rights... It is certainly a law, obviously, that could be very complete. That's what they're going to do in Congress, because it's a rule of banking services that don't depend on our state, yet, on the state of the side, but we need to settle. As Mr. Counselor Giró said, the Honourable Counselor Giró, here is not the most complete way of doing it, of course not, but it is the most viable, the fastest and the most efficient way; it is simple because it can be applied quickly, and then, in the process of the Congress, the rest of the parameters in the process of processing the law will be taken into account. What we need to achieve is quickly that the 940s and the excavators of our country, or, at last, therefore, in some places, as it has been thought, and it is also incorporated in the papers, in some barrels or some, as I have also thought... Beget is a term of Camprodon, therefore, it is a barrier of Camprodon, so they must also have this access to a service which is essential, according to the European directive, which is access to financial services. And, moreover, as the Law proposes, that this is supported by the banking system; I return to insisting and remembering, the Reguant company has done, and it must be said again: a state banking system that, from 2009 to 2012, covered up to EUR 101,500_million– EUR 101,500_million–, which is said very quickly, but if you have to count for sure we would lose it, for the way; EUR 101,500_million, according to the Court of Auditors – the sounds, that of the Court of Auditors? , the Court of Auditors... –; EUR 101,500_million, recorded the September 2021, between the contribution of the FROB, the contribution of the Sareb and the contribution of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. From these, it is estimated that some 43,000 have come from the European Union, which has also initiated an audit procedure, the Court of Auditors of the European Union, to see where they have gone. A banking system that this past year, only this past year, 2021, as Mrs. Reguant said, stands at 20,000_million euros in benefits, which we think they also have an obligation to return to society in the form of essential services, because access to services financed by citizens is an essential service. And while the state government does nothing to rescue these moneys with those that rescued the bank a few days ago – June 14, huh? – the news that the European Central Bank is again rescuing the country by buying public debt, buying these stocks that no one wants to buy in the international markets of the debt. Meanwhile, the State is not able to recover these more than 100,000_millions that it has injected into a bank that, in a year, 20,000, and that spares us caixers, offices and you serve the citizens of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.159.0	And finally, to fix his position, he has the word on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.160.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. Well, the past few years we have seen all the crisis folds in crisis at global level, but also, above all, with a very important impact at local level. We have been subjected to profound changes that are transforming everything: climate change, energy revolution, digitization, telematics services, globalisation, pandemic, now even a war in Europe; chains of sub-governments, inflations at the historical level. Surely there is no economic sector that is not at this moment in the path of change, these structural changes, and surely one of the sectors that has suffered most is the banking sector. The consolidation, to which reference has been made, of the Spanish financing system, the extraordinarily low interests, the digitization that has caused radical changes in its services. According to the bank's employer, today only five percent of bank transactions are made face-to-face. As has been said, from that most historic one that was completed in September 2008, with 46,118 banking offices at the conjunction of the State, at this time fell to 19,104 at the end of 2021. Catalonia was going to have 8,205. Now we have 2,582: they have closed the sixty-eight_per_cent. Only last year they closed it, at the conjunction of the State, three_thousand, and, according to reports from different institutions, the trend of the bank's bonding will continue, as at least, until 2030. Today, the Spanish State still has four offices per 10,000 inhabitants, the second largest network in Europe, after France. And, in absolute terms, it is between the three states of the European Union with the most automatic boxes. But, still, the Spanish State has half the offices per square kilometre that Germany and most of the most advanced states of the European Union. In short, we have enough to finance per capita in relation to it, but we have very little to finance per area. But beyond data and statistics, the reality is that today almost half of the municipalities in our country do not have access to the more basic financing service, which is the availability of effect. The areas most affected by depopulation, rural people with fewer populations have lost services that are essential for being able to live in normality. But it is also a phenomenon that, as has been mentioned, is affecting at these times the most disadvantaged barrels of urban areas, bars from Barcelona like Trinitat Nova, which recently saw its last bank office closed, or cities like Santa Coloma de Gramenet, with seven barrels, eight of which do not have a bank office. And it keeps changing very quickly, but it doesn't do everything at the same rate. According to the reports of the European Central Bank, today, still more than fifty per cent of payments are made in effect– more than fifty per cent. When the euro came into circulation in 2002, there were 8,000_million euros in circulation. At this point there are 28,000. 2021 has reached 28,000, a xifra record of effect, even though it seems to be forced at these times to arrive at xifras record. At this point in time, it's more effective than ever. And, from all this, it is clear that the proposal we are debating today does not address a secondary issue, nor much less. Having effect today is still a vital necessity for the majority of European citizens. It is a difficult problem that has been tried to deal with without great effectiveness from many institutions, from here to Parliament itself, from the Government of Catalonia, from the parliaments, from the state, from other autonomous communities. As referenced, according to Article 149.1 of the Spanish Constitution, we are ahead of a topic of competence of the Spanish State and our approaches must always be side-by-side. I have already commented that since the Department of Enterprise and Work at this time a preliminary draft law amending the Catalonia Consumer Code is being processed, which will try to address this issue. For another band, the State jointly promoted a strategic protocol with the banking sector to strengthen the social and sustainable commitment of the bank. At this time, too, the Ministry of Economy is processing a preliminary draft law creating the Independent Administrative Authority for the Defence of the Client Financer, and the employers of the bank and also the credit unions have announced that in July they will present a plan of measures to improve access to the financial services to rural areas. And, as is known, many members and some autonomous communities at this time are putting in public resources – which we don't share – are putting in public resources to try to reverse this situation. A lot of initiations. Balance of 2021: three thousand offices closed at the conjunct of the Spanish State. Therefore, it is not yet effectively addressing itself, and therefore this law proposal is necessary. A proposition from the law that, as we have said, is based on the conviction that bankers are not a commercial activity, they are a true right of the citizenry. It's a few services that, without being considered as phone rights, because legally they're not, we do have to consider them as essentials and as basics. The articulation of the proposal that we have put forward focuses, as has been said, on ensuring access to the most basic banking service, access to the effect. But there is also the amendment of Law 44/2002, of measures to reform the financial system, in which it is mandated to the ministry competent to draw up a map of minimum territorial needs, of services of face-to-face care that guarantees a universal service. Therefore, it also addresses this need for face-to-face attention which, as has been mentioned, is also reinforced by some of the points that have been put forward by the Socialist Group, and which we will take and vote in favour, because they also reinforce this important aspect of what is being financed by you. We are aware that we cannot recover that old model of banking offices at each canton. But we also know that it is essential to determine distances, minimum distances so that the citizenry has a basic right in the perception of banking services. The exclusion to be financed is not a specific problem of the Spanish State or of Europe. In North American states, or in Canada or Brazil, when we talk about financing exclusion, we obviously talk about distances far superior to ours. There are many initiatives developed at international level, such as "offibusos", "multibanks" and "cashback" systems to take effect in commercial establishments or caixers from non-bank establishments or from public facilities, financed agents... Collaborations can be explored with agricultural cooperatives or with credit sections, which usually have a lot of presence in the rural world, agreement with food chains that reach all metropolitan barrels... We certainly need to prove this before the market continues to abandon these segments of the company that do not generate the high margins of benefits that it considers to be standard. The exclusion to finance affects vulnerability due to age, training or simply lack of territorial equity. Peripheral metropolitan barrels or smaller towns, large people, families affected by the digital divide see their vulnerability and discrimination factors grow. And if there is no such thing, four days from now we shall see as the great majority of the municipalities of less than two thousand inhabitants, which are two thirds of the municipalities of our country, nor will they have office, nor will they have access to the effect. The depopulation responds to many factors, but it also responds to factors such as what we are discussing today, such as the possibility of having essential services, basic services such as banking services. And we must respond from the perspective that we are in front of an essential service that should be addressed, as are the telecommunications and energy services, with the fixing for a state law of minimum mandatory services. The guarantee of access to the financial services cannot be left in the hands of the own financial entities, which are the ones causing the problem. We can intervene from public administrations, as we propose, in order to protect the most vulnerable segments of the population. We cannot allow the five big banks... as has been said, the five big Spanish banks to tank in 2021 with a profit of 20,000_million euros or banks that came, as the company has commented, 100,000_million euros in subsidies, we cannot allow them to continue adding to the depopulation, that they continue to abandon the most disadvantaged barrels and that they continue to marginalize the great people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.161.0	Next, and according to the petition made for the government, counsel Giró will speak briefly, and if he does so quickly, he will not open again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.162.0	Thank you, President. Briefly. Members, Members, an approved date, as I hope the case will be, the proposal that we have just debated, now we have to trust that the Congress of Deputies in Madrid will listen to it and make it its own. Five months ago a proposal to solve a social problem in Catalonia began to emerge, the problem of exclusion will be financed in small municipalities. Today, this chamber has just debated a text that most parliamentary groups have made their own. So, we've detected a problem, we know how to solve it, and we've reached an agreement to do it, and also, we can't wire the needle because neither the needle nor the wire are in our hands. That's why I can't help but, when I get to this point, share a feeling of disappointment and sadness with you. I confess that this is the only point that has prevented my joy today from being complete. What I would like is for us to work immediately to implement the law and favor the citizens we have thought of. But he said that, I don't want my words to sound like a complaint, but to satisfaction and joy. I'm optimistic that all the groups we've agreed on, we've had enough of a good bill and we've been as far away as we can go. They are all good reasons to be happy and hopeful about the future of this text. Allow me to share with you only two considerations around this proposal that will be voted on in a few minutes' time. Just in the field of financing, in just over forty years we have had a book of students with the accounting points written to me, to pay for the purchases of the super lying the mobile on a date. At the length of these forty years, we have seen how the financial entities have accustomed us to having a bank office at every town in Catalonia and every city block, and an automatic boxer at every canton. And at the end of these four decades, almost one day for another, these branches have disappeared from all places and streets, and with them, the automatic boxes. When the transformations are as profound as these and they produce so quickly, it is inevitable that there are people who cannot follow the pace of these changes. When this happens, when some citizens cannot resolve with alternate means that until then resolve with conventional means, they run the risk of being expelled. A thing as simple as the disappearance of a cashier can complicate the lives of all people who cannot use bank services for the internet, or who do not use debit cards, or who organize their small domestic economy with cash in effect. You know who these people are, everyone knows who these people are: we're none of us, it's the most vulnerable people, the big people, who can only afford physical, face-to-face banking services, because they don't have a computer at home or access to the network or have a vehicle to get to a town where I still have a bank office. A strong and healthy society like which we all hope Catalonia will protect its most fragile members and put resources in place to avoid the risk of exclusion. For my part, I can only express my joy – I have already said this – and my thanks for seeing that the first text that we have presented since the Economics Department five months ago has improved, and very notably, with the contributions of the parliamentary groups of Junts, Esquerra, the commons and the CUP, which also incorporate access to personal attention, and also – I want to say this – with the substantial contributions of the PSC by means of elements that go in the same line of incorporating access to other services and extending the amounts in the barrels of the great cities. I therefore welcome the favourable vote of all groups, including those groups which, without taking part in their proceedings, are finally voting in favour of this proposal. So many thanks to all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.163.0	All right. So, after the speeches, we shall now proceed to the votes. And, first of all, in response to the request made by the parliamentary groups, we would vote first of all on points 1, 2, 3 and 4, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. [[Pause.]] I hope that the Members will arrive at their place. The vote begins. These items were approved with 119 votes in favour and 10 votes against. Next, we will vote on items 5, 6, 7, which was also presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. The vote begins. These items were approved with 56 votes in favour, 10 against and 63 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the proposal. The vote begins. Therefore, the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for the guarantee law of the automatic depository service in municipalities at risk of financial exclusion and guarantee in access to banking services has been approved by 119 votes in favour and 10 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Decree-Law No 6/2022 of 30 May, laying down the criteria applicable to the preparation, approval, validation and revision of the language projects of educational centres]] [[203-00024/13]] And then we move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2022 of May 30, for which the criteria applicable to the elaboration, approval, validation and revision of the linguistic projects of the educational centres are laid down. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Education Adviser will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.164.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, today we present a decree which aims to give maximum security, supervision and legal protection to the educational centres, to their addresses, to their teachers, to their teachers, to their linguistic projects before an anomalous judicial situation such as the claim to impose a language model on the classrooms from the courts. A law that complements the law on the use and learning of official languages in the non-university teaching that we approved in this chamber on June 8th on the proposal of four parliamentary groups representing the eighty_per_cent of the country's citizenship. Because the Catalan language and model of school are a foundational piece of our country, built and defended on the basis of great political and social consensus; consensuses that some have tried to squander, that have wanted to break judicializing the school, creating a problem where there is not. A law decree that, like the law I gave them, has the unanimous support of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, which some also wanted to use as a tool to hinder its processing. Through the decree that we bring today to the validation of Parliament, we establish what must be the procedure for approving the linguistic projects of our educational centres. This standard sets out what is to be the process of elaboration and the pedagogical and didactic characteristics to be maintained by the linguistic projects of the centres and makes the Department of Education responsible for adjusting these linguistic projects to the new legislation. The linguistic projects of the centres are the nuclear element of the school language model of Catalonia, which, as Article 14 of the Law of Education declines, the linguistic projects are the document but, above all, they must be the instrument that marks the treatment of the languages in an educational centre. And from the Department of Education, and as a counselor, we are responsible for the legality of the linguistic projects we validate. In drawing up these linguistic projects, it is also clear that cultural diversity, the socio-linguistic reality of our children and young people in each of our centres cannot be taken into account. Listening, at the beginning of this legislature, a year ago practically, very soon, it took a little time to advise, what I did was to recognize a situation so that we could move on and improve it. And this recognition went, as always, according to indicators and data; we always have to have as much information as possible to make the best decisions. And the socio-demographic and linguistic study of a quarter of a secondary school developed by the Higher Education System Assessment Board began to manifest the reduction of the use of the catalate between the student and the teacher, and especially worrying about the descent in the educational activities that are done in a group. Then came also, a few months later, the Synod of Greuges, that in the inquiry on the rights of children and linguistic uses to Catalonia asynyalava, on the March of 22, that the català is the language of school use during 62.1_percent of the day at primary and 60.6_percent at secondary, while the castle is a 33.1_percent at the school and 32.9 at the institutes. This study also notes the import of català as a compensatory role that the school represents for many children and young people at the time of providing these tools and this space of interaction and communication between equals in català. And even more so, the survey of the linguistic uses of schools in Catalonia in 2022, which we have done from the Department of Education and which we will usually make public, from the Center for Research in Sociolinguistics and Communication of the University of Barcelona, also highlights this descent in the uses of catalá, especially when the student interacts with other companies and companies in the classroom, when they fan, with the new learning methodologies, especially group work or project work. And in the past few years, our society has experienced enormous transformations that also affect demographic and linguistic composition, and the school has had to adapt. The different reality of Catalan classrooms obliges the development of language education in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the different linguistic uses associated with the learning process. We have centres and classrooms with very different social and linguistic realities: 72,000 classrooms in the country, 72,000 different realities and, therefore, it is impossible to draw up, draft unique linguistic projects. We do not believe in monolithic regulation, we believe in taking decisions from shared leaders and, therefore, we cannot address various linguistic situations with a single, uniform and equal solution for everyone. And as always, as a counselor of Education, I put the emphasis on it and so, today I also want to do it, the answer to learning will always come from the expert of our teachers, will always come from the hand of pedagogy. It is therefore important that the education system responds to a social reality, complex and changing, and that it does so with flexible and cross-cutting methodologies that do not allow the application of numerical parameters, percentages or pre-established proportions of language usage. It is a decree, which today we propose for validation, with four articles, three additional provisions, one transitory and one final. The first article sets out the objective of the Law Decree, which is to set the criteria applicable to the preparation, approval, validation and revision, if necessary, of the language projects of public educational centres and private centres, supported by public funds. The second article. The second article is to set the basic criteria and objectives of teaching and using languages in the educational field. Based on the regulations in force, it determines the català as its own language, language normally used, vehicle and learning language, and language of normal use in the collide of the alumni. It is fixed as to ensure that the student sunny the full domain, oral and written, of the català and the castle, and as better languages, to finish the mandatory stage of ESO quarter. And finally it determines, as I said, this inapplicability of numerical parameters, proportions or percentages in language learning. And that's what the pedagogical consensus also says. Last week, the Linguistic Council Counsellor of the Department of Education, with President Carme Junyent and the fourteen members, presented me with a report with the conclusions of the three-month work. Some conclusions and a piece of work that will serve as the basis for the future decree of the Department of Education, which will regulate the process of elaboration of the linguistic projects of our educational centers. And in this report I made explicitly also..., they put the emphasis clearly also in the inapplication of percentages in the learning of languages and of any scope. The third article focuses on the process of drawing up, approving and revising, if necessary, language projects. Some projects that will be reviewed periodically for both internal and external evaluation. So, what we're going to do is we're going with, we're going to assess the educational centers. Through educational inspection through language, interculturality and social cohesion professionals, we monitor the implementation of these linguistic projects, and above all, and very important, we evaluate them. The law decree also has an additional provision that states that in those linguistic projects or singular measures adopted that do not meet the criteria set for the law decree, it will have to be reviewed in the first six months of the course so that they can adapt to this legislation. And the law decree also has two additional provisions, in which is established the advice that the department has to make to the center, and is also marked by bipolarity and the use of orange to the territory of the Aran. Once this decree was approved by the Government, it already came into force and, therefore, what they did as they did to the Department of Education, what they did as they did to the Government, was to send some instructions to the educational centres. A few very clear instructions because, in a very simple way, the centres can, through a questionnaire, before June 30th, therefore, before tomorrow, verify that the current linguistic projects in force are adapted to the new standards, both that of law and this Parliament, with 80_percent of support, approved June 8th, as the decree that we hope to validate today. With these instructions we also explained that the language project must be known throughout the educational community, for all professionals. We also explain that this knowledge must also bring to the compliment of the language project in the classrooms. And, therefore, teachers, teachers, do not sort out the language in which they make the class. They make the class in the language that explains their linguistic project. And, therefore, we will also follow up and assess that the language projects actually drafted are a reality in the classroom. And we have to go further there – we have to go further there – especially in the face of increasing the social use of català. Here, highlight the work that is done through the national pact for language. Education is part of the solution, but here we are all involved in increasing this use of català. And I'm done. Deia: accompanying, advising on the cost of the centres, maximum legal protection of the educational centres. What's new: the evaluation. This decree we approve of today will also incorporate that through the decree..., we will make a presentation of the evaluation of the linguistic projects in Catalan, in English and in other languages, but mainly in these three, of the learnings of our student. From LOMLOE there are tests of basic competitions at a quarter of primary and after ESO. We'll also do them in primary and fourth of ESO. We'll do them... we'll start a way to do them in a censal way, all the time, and we'll start a way to do the evaluation of the oral competition tests, which he's not a fan so far. And, therefore, we will evaluate, progressively, orally, both the català and the castle as well as the English at a quarter of ESO and a sixth of primary. And this is also a novelty to improve this assessment, which must then allow us to take the best decisions so that we can adapt the linguistic projects of the different educational centres any other year. And so – and now, yes, I finish – with this new standard, with political consensus, with social consensus and with pedagogical consensus, what we are saying is to confirm – say – the compromise in the Catalan school model, legal and legal listening for our directions, for our teachers and for the linguistic projects of all educational centres before judicial interference. Let's make it clear and put the learning in the hands of who knows. So let's leave the pedagogy in the hands of the masters. We don't apply numerical percentages to learning. And what I would like to do is give thanks to everyone who has participated in the elaboration of this decree, ask for the favorable vote to validate it. And we will follow, from the Department of Education, making things happen and always always at the service of the student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.165.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then, then, the parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position. This intervention time will be two minutes for each parliamentary group. And the first word is on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.166.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, Counselor, Honourable President... We do not approve in this Chamber a widely worked agreement, which distilled the updating of an important consensus in language matters to the schools for which it makes learning and use of official languages. An agreement that preserves the vehicularity of the Catalan language, that will continue to feel the centre of gravity of the education system; that guarantees the learning and curriculum of the official languages, also of the castle, that, for the first time, it recognizes the law as the language of learning, therefore, a language to teach and to teach, and that establishes the criteria for determining the presence of these official languages in the educational projects for which it should take into account the sociolinguistic reality in order to be able to flexibility and modulate the educational strategies, the teaching resources of the centre according to the period, to fulfil the shared policy objective that is this full oral and written domain of the official languages at the end of the compulsory teaching. And obviously, taking into account the results, according to the assessment instruments, control and improvement of the competitions, to adjust and improve what is to be improved. But, in any case, the law stipulates that educational criteria will be the criteria that will determine this presence, that they will be concrete in the linguistic projects, that they are object of this decree, that, if they are not legal instruments, they are indeed tools of educational planning. So, well, we hoped that the decree that you deployed and implemented this law as kept in full hope of this agreement. And that, sadly, so, this decree doesn't, but what it does is break the agreement that it came to. And why do we think it's not the best decree we could have had? First, for what it does to form, it is obvious that it has been corrected: it speaks of linguistic projects of the educational centres of languages in general, but, in change, it does not take into account the third or fourth languages, the foreign languages. And I said yesterday when the Education Advisor insisted on the need to push a course to improve the skills in an angled language, in a third language of the studentship, of the citizenry in general, in compulsory education. As I said, we're in the 21st century. We know that, without minimally mastering a third language, we cannot access certain policy positions, they cannot study certain scientific careers, they cannot work or study alienation. And, therefore, we do not understand how a decree on the linguistic projects of the educational centres does not take into account, nor does it mention the English or the treatment of the third and fourth languages, even though it is in general, when it is a topic for schools in the country of opportunity that we want, when, in fact, a good part of the public and concerted educational centres have long been involved in any matter or space in English, which has been lost in this way as well. And, therefore, they do not even contain the reality that exists. Secondly – this is a topic that has particularly bothered us –, so much so that it was difficult to collect the castle's curriculum together with the català when they know that, together with other expressions, there was a key piece of this agreement for which it implies the recognition of this language? An expression which, I would like to recall, Education has also included in the famous questionaire of addresses, but which, in change, has been obvious in this decree. And, in this sense, logically, there is a lack of reference in Article 2 of the Decree, where the basic criteria and objectives applicable to the elaboration of the linguistic projects are established, where the guarantee of learning and also the curriculum of the castle should have been added. And I wonder if it's so hard for them to mention this language, to mention the castle. And we have to ask ourselves, therefore, what value it is for you to have the agreements we make. Thirdly, it is also a curious question, that is, should it be said that the numerical parameters, proportions or percentages in the teaching will be inapplicable, when this is an unnecessary challenge to the courts and the TSJ, which, instead of helping to pacify the conflict, what does it do to feed it? Or, in any case, it doesn't solve re. It's that, besides, they have a very short-term view. Can you tell me what educational planning does not consist of numerical parameters with hours, for example? Have they disappeared to the resume? Is the pedagogical criteria to exclude all numerical parameters? It seems to us to be an absurd political interference with the pedagogical criteria. The truth is that we would be looking forward to publishing the definite curricula, because in Catalonia, so, once the course is over, they still don't know. See if they contain or do not contain numerical parameters with hourly indications. And then there's a great mystery that, this, you should help us solve. That is to say, as it may be that this government considers that for compulsory education the percentages are not good, but the same government, in this case the Department of Universities and Research, has announced a plan to achieve a minimum percentage of teaching in Catalan from the eighth to the fifth. That is to say, twenty-five percent of castella at schools and institutes is not acceptable, but the eighty-eight percent of català at universities is great. The truth is that they are becoming a very small country and a university that is very little universalized and internationalized. It's what they do to look at it! How do they explain the desirability of applying numerical parameters to university education that prohibit non-university education? It is indeed a mystery that we must clarify, when even all countries like Norway, that they are, where the Norwegian is not in a situation of linguistic emergence, his teaching to the degrees does not go up to the eighty_per_cent, in the masters the English exceeds more than fifty_per_cent. But, um, maybe we can't find ourselves before government decrees or plans, but we can find ourselves with a university board of Junts and a Republican Left decree. The truth is that we ask them to review, please, their inconsistencies, the unity of their government and, in any case, not to make us complicit in their internal political balances. And, on the other hand, it's a decree that brings a lot of novelty, in which the Education Department certainly assumes responsibility for the legality of linguistic projects, which we have to say does not exempt the responsibility that goes on with the directions. But here we have to ask ourselves: is it not valid until today? Is it possible that there are educational centres that make their linguistic projects outside the law? That they weren't checked by educational inspection? Because that would worry us a lot and the truth is that at some point we should be clear. And it's also a very little concrete decree when it comes to government obligations. For a band, state in Article 4 that the educational centres must collaborate in the process of monitoring and evaluating the linguistic project, providing indicators, the information required by the department, but in change, do not say five indicators, five data, five technical resources, which will be available to the Government because these schools and institutes have more information at the time of preparing their projects. For example, to know what is the socio-linguistic reality of its closer environment. Many years ago, we asked that instead of taxing, they help themselves, consult and target educational centres. And I don't think I'm saying anything that nobody knows. The government, still today, does not have these data. But I look, finally, our position against this decree is a political position. We have read the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, we respect the legality of the decree, but we cannot support it when, after months of work to draw up the law – and allow me to add to it on our part also the impulse of a law that is very positive, that has been valued, that has been much hoped for –, is not taken into account for its deployment, as had been promised to be done. And we don't share it because it doesn't fully reverse the recently approved language consensus, because it's not ambition, because in a globalized world it's obvious foreign languages – English, French, third and fourth languages – because it's been corrected, because when it refers to languages it only refers to official languages, because it doesn't just reverse the reality of the centers, because it can keep and re-energize a linguistic conflict when the law left it, leaves it, well solved. Now, we agree that the schools need to pass the page, focus on their educational function, their social function. Their job is to manage pandemic months with a counselor who does not seek their agreement, their complicity in pushing for change, without further planning, overcome by the bureaucracy and the difficulties that they face with unclear instructions, as if to manage such a sensitive conflict for families again. But for all this, and regretting, therefore, that you have not rectified in time, arrived at this point, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group - Unites per Avance, therefore, we reiterate that we will vote against this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.167.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Manuel Jesús Acosta, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.168.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. You, lords of the government, have built a sociolinguistic labyrinth as entangled as the one that ordered the building of King Minos of Crete to his engineer Dédalo to lock up the minotaur. As you will know, it is known to all, in that maze, thousands of children and young people were forced to enter until they would eventually be devoured fatally by the monster because of the difficulty of finding the exit. And in the meantime, you gentlemen of the government have been protected. They have covered their backs by closing up themselves as Daedalus and his son Icarus, to avoid that if some young spooked, by chance, managed to escape from the labyrinth, they would face their evil liberticated actions and jeopardize their political hegemony. Well, the decree law we are discussing determines that the Department of Education will provide the necessary advice to educational institutions for the elaboration, approval or revision of their linguistic projects. That is to say, it places in the hands of the Department of Education and, ultimately, the Department of Education, but also the educational institutions, the treatment of languages according to the educational needs and the cultural and linguistic diversity of the student, without fulfilling or enforcing the obligation to impart twenty-five per cent of the teachings, of the subjects, in Spanish, in truncated subjects, nor to establish what as a vehicular language in the teaching, and this despite the clear and concise requirement established by the order of 4 May 2022 by the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia. Moreover, this decree opposes Judgment 5201/2020 and the order, as I have already mentioned, of 4 May, with the fallacious argument of protecting the centers of judicial interference. Well, I would say more, it is a bellaqueria to appeal to respect for the division of powers, as Mr Aragonès did this morning, but when a sentence they do not like, as they consider themselves citizens of the first, they are above the law, because they have no objection to rejecting the execution of the sentence and, above that, to send their non-compliance and their disobedience. In short, fraudulently and in a disobedient spirit, by means of a decree law, it is intended to amend the legislative framework in order to avoid the enforcement of the final judgment handed down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and the above-mentioned order of 4 May of the 22nd, which, by the way, was handed down in the procedure for the forced execution of the judgment. We are, therefore, faced with a clear fraud of law to prevent the judgment and the order being brought into effect, and with a clear disobedience to what was ordered by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. In short, this decree law, which was signed a few hours before the sentence expired, suffers from three serious inconsistencies. First, it should be remembered that no law, no change in the legal framework, can be contrary to final court judgements. Second: this Decree Law advocates the exclusion of Spanish as an official language and vehicle by unilaterally ensuring that Catalan, I quote literally, "is its own language, language normally used, language of vehicle and learning and language of normal use in the reception of pupils. I remind you that the model of linguistic immersion that has been applied in Catalonia for forty years, in the Catalan educational system, consists in the imposition of monolingualism in Catalan, in a society that has two official languages, excluding Spanish, which is the mother tongue of half of Catalans. It is not, therefore, a model of linguistic conjunction and, of course, as it does not address the sociolinguistic reality of Catalonia, it is not an appropriate method, it is not an appropriate model of social cohesion, but quite the contrary, of school segregation and social segregation. But the most important thing, in relation to linguistic immersion, leaving aside any ideological and political apriorism, is that pedagogically only the linguistic immersion model is valid and effective when it applies to people who already have a mastery of their mother tongue in a standard, not basic or primary registry. All pedagogues and sociolinguists agree in this axiom. But if someone is still refractory to reality, to the objective, I propose an example by analogy with the education of deaf children in the zero to three years stage. Last May, May 31st, Tuesday – I remember that yes, that was Tuesday May 31st – we had the opportunity to be present at the appearance of Mr Tapia Guardeño, of the Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia, at the Commission of Study of the Inclusive School. He reminded us that the cognitive development of a child, whether hearing or deaf, depends on this age range, from zero to three years; it is crucial. Thus, if a deaf child, who obviously lacks a mother tongue, is not quickly given a starting language, the sign language, specifically, his cognitive development is much more complicated. If your deafness is not detected quickly, the development and feeling of that child, as it grows, is much more complicated. This linguistic denial of initiation imposes a blockage on the student and has consequences. When these linguistic needs are not met, there is a linguistic deprivation and sometimes, on many occasions, there is not enough cognitive level to continue further education. Well, this is a very clear example to understand that, without a mother tongue dominated by a child, the method of linguistic immersion is a fiasco. Third: this decree law refuses to apply numerical parameters, proportions or percentages in the teaching and use of languages, because it considers that they are not pedagogical arguments. Well, it should be remembered that the educational fact happens in space and in time, not only in the privileged minds of some pedagogues or pseudopedagogues. The relationship between educational objectives and learning achievements is mediated by resources, one of which is time: exposure time, assimilation time, correction time, evaluation time. And time can therefore be measured in different units, one of which is the percentages or the hours of teaching of subjects. Man, this axiom is absolutely pedagogical. In addition, no scientific pedagogy works against the rights of legal-affirmed minors. Not accepting this reality is believing that learning any subject happens out of time. In addition, a magic guarantee of the oral and written mastery of Catalan and Spanish cannot be used at the end of compulsory education without repairing the necessary means, especially by keeping the Spanish in its residual situation. On the separatist slogan compulsively repeating the separatist groups that the learning of the language does not go by percentages and that is not a pedagogical criterion, why then did Mrs Geis, here present, Conseller of Recerca i Universitats, demand the imposition of an eighty_per_cent of the classes of the universities in Catalan or why, two weeks ago scarcely, the cloister of the Universitat Pompeu Fabra has approved a motion calling on its governing council to prohibit the use of Spanish in its communications, forcing the university community to express themselves exclusively in Catalan, i.e. to the hundred_per_cent in Catalan. Well, why in the very motion of the Pompeu Fabra cloister has it been ordered to defend linguistic immersion, that is, a hundred_per_cent of classes in only one of the two official languages: Catalan? I'm done. You, lords of the Government, are forcing thousands of children into a well-designed and entangled labyrinth, depriving them of their freedom and turning them into submissive subjects obedient to their political, linguistic and separatist indoctrination. You think that your political hegemony will be perpetual and you believe that in the unlikely – for you – event that some damned child could get out of the bondage of the maze, like Theseus in the Greek myth, you will find useful the plan that you have dared to flee by flying with wings made of feathers, emulating Daedalo and his son Icarus. In that case, I warn you, be careful, be very careful, because Icarus flew so high that the rays of the sun melted the wax of the bees that assembled the feathers of his wings, rushing into the sea. Do not count on us to validate your totalitarian imposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.169.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, it has the following word, MP Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.170.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, in my interview yesterday, I was talking about the four catastrophes that this department had ended. Today we will talk about the fourth: the harmful management of the twenty-i-five percent sentence at the schools. Today we find ourselves here to position ourselves on a decree of law, which has been a decree of lawlessness, which has only reached the consent of some political parties, without counting in absolute with the educational community, and which, moreover, adapts linguistic legislation to the judgment. We find ourselves again with a mechanism that allows responsibility to return to the educational centers, to return to the directions, linking the application of the sentence to the linguistic projects of each center. In its article 4, it does not serve to state that the department assumes responsibility for the legality of the language projects it validates, if in the end the ultimate responsibility is for the addresses. And now I will give an example: the Puig collegia of the Cadirites of Llagostera, in the Gironès. A school that included in its linguistic project an aspect as dramatic, as extraordinary, as sketchy, as the català as the vertebrator and the vehicle language of teaching. So this school of the Gironès saw the five-year section of the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia decide that this linguistic project is not in line with the law, since it does not guarantee that the infants receive a teaching that encloses the castle as the vehicle language in a reasonable proportion. I repeat, a linguistic project that established the catal as a vertebrator and teaching vehicle language does not conform to the right. This means that the vast majority, if not the totality of Catalonia's schools, have and have educational projects that do not conform to the right. We can find us, in addition, before a flood of complaints from centres, direct teams and families in the courts. Some families that do not have the support or support of the Department of Education, as in the case of the school that I just mentioned, even though this is just an example, we have other media, such as the Canet de Mar school. But they are not just these, but there are school drawings in this situation that have been forced by judicial institutions to apply this twenty-five percent castle. This locks the different demarcations. Some families and centers that, like in the case of the Canet school, will find themselves in a context of judicialization of their center, alone, without the presence of the department, as happens in many other questions. And I'll set another example again. What happens when there is a disciplinary expedient open to a teacher? What is the management team that ends up managing, and in the first steps, there is the department that accompanies it, but what happens when this dispatcher goes up to judicial institutions? So the department says to this management team: "From here, just go. And when this happens and it comes to court, the department isn't there. He does not take responsibility, he is not present as the accuser, he does not denounce the situation. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's not be fooled, that's what's going to happen with the language in the schools as well. How do I try to solve these cases in the Education Department? How do you intend to solve this problem by mediating this decree? Why is there not enough with paragraph d of Article 2, which states: "The application of numerical parameters, proportions or percentages in teaching and use of languages is not to be done..., is not to be done, is it not? That is to say, this article says that it will take this into account, and that it will not have to apply any type of percentages or numerical parameters. However, as Mrs Niubó has rightly pointed out, our whole system is based on percentages, teaching hours, non-learning hours, hours of teaching, and, therefore, how will this validation be done? How will it be validated or how will this feeling apply to what you have facilitated and smoothed the way for entering the educational center? How will this compliment of this feeling that you have facilitated by passing the law, which is already approved, and the decree that we have today on the table, without applying these percentages, be applied or measured? It is with his magnificent question that you have arrived at the educational centres, in which all directions have to answer yes or no to a series of questions. The first: "The linguistic project, do you foresee that the Catalan language, as the language of Catalonia, is the language of vehicle and learning? Yes or no? That'll be the way to validate, won't it? With these seven questions, right? O: "Does the language project foresee the català as the normal language of use? O: "Does the linguistic project provide for a curriculum and education of the catal and castle? With these seven questions, to which we must answer yes or no, it is how the department intends to evaluate the linguistic projects of the more than five thousand educational centres in all of Catalonia, and, moreover, it will do so in fifteen days. Well, tomorrow the deadline is to check if the language projects that were in force at this complementary course or not the legislation, but it is that for the proper course you have a term of fifteen days, or your own legislation determines that within a term of fifteen days the department will make a position to decide whether these language projects are suitable or not. Therefore, it is as simple as answering yes or no to a series of questions. What you don't set – and it's very lax and very little in your explanations – is as expected, isn't it? , guarantee this use of catal and castle curriculum and education without this percentage application. How will you do that? Because there is no reference to this fact and it is not said in what way this will last, how it will be evaluated and what control mechanisms will be used, beyond this option that they have put on the table to make linguistic tests to determine the level of knowledge of the languages of our student. But there are already some tests that determine the level of linguistic competence of our student; we have the tests of competence at six and the tests of basic competence at a quarter of ESO, and these tests of basic competence already determine the level of linguistic competence of our student. Therefore, depending on this, it will change. What will happen in that context where most of the surrounding is a Spanish-speaking environment? Because one of the points of the decree refers to the application to the student's socio-educational background or socio-educational context. In those barrels and in those contexts where the presence of the castle is the majority, does this mean that a linguistic project with more presence of the Spanish language will be accepted? What will happen when they say..., well, you..., they say that this decree guarantees this equity, this equality, this equal opportunity. Equal opportunities ensure that the student learns Catalan language and Spanish language, but they do not establish mechanisms that make toga are the ones that govern the classrooms, not the direct teams, not the cloisters and not the educational community. Because, as I said, by passing this decree, we are ensuring that the togas that decide the linguistic project of the centres, and not the direct teams, are the ones that we need to guarantee in a society every time more different. Here the subject of angled language has come out several times. We all know that when a student learns a foreign language, and is not exposed to this language because the territory where they learn it is not the territory where this language is spoken, immersion is recommended. Well, we have different reports from the Greuges Syndicate that have made clear that Catalan language has been a minor in its social use of our society and, therefore, this immersion is not guaranteed outside the educational realm, and we must ensure that within the educational realm there is this immersion, these exposure hours to Catalan language, which ensure that our student acquires the necessary skills and knowledge added to Catalan language. If we are so clear with foreign languages and so clear with English, how can we not be clear with Catalan language? And when we say it's a tool of social cohesion, we say it because, if not, it's what the language is. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – it is the language we use for our communication and, therefore, if outside the educational sphere the Spanish language is used, what it does is that this communication that will be produced between people will be in the Spanish language. We have to guarantee this immersion because that space that does not occupy the Catalan language will occupy the Spanish language. And if the language is – I repeat – the tool for communication, we must ensure that this communication is done in our language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.171.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puembe has the word, then the MP Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.172.0	Thank you, President. We took a step further on the path we started a few weeks ago with the right armor that the student knows and can express himself in our language, the català. It's not a new path, of course, nor are we the first ones to go. In fact, we are many years old trying to defend the language model that we are still trying to protect today. And, of course, it's a way that the Spanish-speaking people, as well as the migrating people, made a lot of their own. And why? Because they are the ones who make it clear that the català should, in principle, involve more equal opportunities. And in a society with more than twenty-one percent of the extreme poor that "we know with this collection, it's common sense that it's more equal than opportunities, than we remember, that it doesn't just go by to speak Catalan. Because if the defense of the català is not linked to the struggle against inequalities, it will end up associating the català with the bourgeoisie or with the indifference of the suffering of the people. If we do not understand that fighting for català must also involve fighting against classism, against racism, against ferotism, we will end up more outraged by the priority of using one language or another than before the right to a rest, to have a decent job, to eat or the right to migrate without being at the border in the morning. If we take and defend this critical view and stop doing racist readings that view migrations as a last resort for language, we may lose ourselves, as was the case with the linguistic immersion model, that immigration is, in fact, an opportunity to save the Catalan. So yes, of course we are talking about linguistic rights, but also equal opportunities. The full competence of the catalá is a cultural right, but also a practical fact so that everyone can get out of the same starting point. The català and, of course, the public school, should help to guarantee it. And we've said it many times before, immersion isn't up to it, and we'll do everything in our hands so that the pedagogical criteria that you decide which language project is the most adhering to our public schools or those supported with the money of everyone. We need this legal certainty if we are to respond to the acquiescence of skills in català, always taking into account a key element and which the decree contemplates, we believe. The sociolinguistic reality of the centre from a perspective of recognition and respect this linguistic diversity. And the language doesn't escape, either. The català must always defend itself, and from Comú We can, the defense from all the fronts and from all the institutions, from the Congress of the Deputies, with the LOMLOE and the majority that allowed the armor and respect the languages, and we have also done so from here to the Parliament of Catalonia. Transversality, protection, pedagogy. These are the principles that move us into linguistic immersion. And so much the standard mark we approved weeks ago as the hope that we believe that you have this decree is a demonstration, above all, of the trust that society has in our educational community and in its teachers. Because they are the teaching body and the educational centers that put in practice their linguistic project adapted to the needs of the student, and they are the teachers and the teachers and the educational centers that should decide which is the best way to practice it. In short, we hope that this decree will serve to help order the doctrinal projects from the new legislation that we passed weeks ago and to ensure that the addresses of the centers have a reference to prepare the linguistic projects without being in the legal bad. At the end and end, what we are all trying to do is to give all possible tools to the centre so that they continue to adapt linguistic knowledge to their realities and, at the same time, to protect them from constant judicial debates which, ultimately, do not harm politics, but, above all, the student and the teaching staff. A future-oriented country is one that understands languages as the element of cohesion, cooperation and multiple wealth. This, in principle, is the basis of our model, fleeing the confrontation that the contrary to the Catalan model claim. Cal, though, remember something that can't divert us from the path. We will continue to insist on public policies to promote the use of Catalan in the social sphere, because we believe that it is precisely here where the problem of the backward use of our language is and not so much in the skills demonstrated by the student in learning. Rather than focus the linguistic debates only on the schools, because in the end we play them to the reactionary right and to the addicted characters, it seems, to the lawfare; lawfare encapsulated by political forces, here present, who make a perverse and electoralist of the language. And, please, instrumentalizing forces of language, let them and the teachers do their job, that they and they are, precisely, who know perfectly how the law of education works, already completing it guaranteeing the relaxation of skills in both languages. We are immersed because of the use of the Catalan School Partyer in another judicial debate. And, as we say, the tool that we have as legislators, and that we have already served and consider to be the main tool, is the armoring of the teaching body, which must not assume any responsibility in this matter. And so we have done and so we will do as many times as anyone, having social, educational and political consensus. But we also ask the government to work, to work folds in our exclusive language skills. Responsibility here is shared. We encourage the policies of the use of català to the networks, through talent, guaranteeing the presence of language to all the cultural fan of what we enjoy. We build bridges with català, fostering community spaces where social and personal relations are worked in català, also between communities with a diverse cultural migrant mix, with our language as the element of cohesion. We encourage in the cultural world and, in particular, in the audiovisual català. In short, ensuring the safety of teachers and the educational community is ensuring that immersion has a long life ahead of it. And we'll do everything we can to keep feeling that way. That is why we would act responsibly and vote in favour of this decree, but repeating that we do not lose sight of the fact that it is the law that we have already approved that leaves black on white in the consensus for the Catalan and that the languages take on pedagogical and non-legal bases. We wouldn't want to finish this intervention without giving thanks. Thanks to the educational community that wears years fighting not only for the details, but putting the body in defense of the language before the judicial battles and the crude game of the right. Thanks, in particular, to the teachers who each day enter the classroom with the responsibility of being the children of this country in the values of respect for human and social rights. Thank you for all that you've gone out and you'll be going out on the street to demand the use you're looking for and that many times is more about the prospect of the benefit of the student and not his/her own. We will be at your side in your demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.174.0	We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Congratulations, Counsellor Gonzalez-Cambray. And Constable Garriga Ibáñez greets me. Congratulations to President Aragones and Garcia, too. Greet me, because I see he's gone. Congratulations, President Borràs and Castanyer. You've all had what you wanted, the Catalan language, finally, turned into a raw sheet, into a weapon of war, into an instrument of oppression, of hispanophobia and of eternal rancour between Catalans forty years more, if God will, and not for anyone, that will stop you, eh? We'll stop them and they'll stop them. I have no doubt that you will all be disabled, fined and purged. Simply, because the català is not rubber, the Spanish is not rubber and the togas are still less rubber, gentlemen of the CUP. So, I'm sorry, but these games at the end are over and someone pays. And someone has to pay for it. And you will have to pay for all the evil you are doing. But for now, the evil is already done and we have to manage it. Congratulations, also, lords of the commons, to betray the original experience of the PSUC, to confuse and pervert the heritage of Jordi Sole Tura, to act as authentic bourgeois left-handed. That's right, the worse version of the bourgeoisie and the worse version of the left. This disaster, this profound collective defeat – let us hope it will pass – which we are debating today would not have been possible without its betrayal of the popular classes they claim to represent and of all others. Congratulations, above all, to the absent Mr. Salvador Illa Roca – greet me, Mrs. Niubó, when I can – for winning a few elections without telling the truth. I don't know if they've fooled them, all these people, all of them, or you've fooled everyone since the first day. Or if, directly, they're the same. They do not have the slightest sense of responsibility, no trace of loyalty to all the people who for many years, many years, saw the PSC as the only alternative, the only answer, to a monocolored, mediocre and oppressive Catalonia; the white dictatorship, which gave in Josep Tarradellas. Remember why Ciuta was born in 2006? To do the work that neither you nor the lords of the PP were worthy to do, to defend diversity and, as I would say, the dignity of Catalonia; a cohesive and unbridled Catalonia, which is what all of you want to impose on us, because all of you earn it. Because they have made Catalonia a dual ideal scene of power, for some, and even a profitable way of life, for some others; a lemon that squeezes and squeezes until I don't have a drop of juice left. We are supposed to come here today to discuss a decree on the Catalan language at school, but what is at stake is much more than that. It's an idea of society. It is what soul or how many souls there are in Catalonia. Look, you all know that I grew up and started working in Catalan environments. For a long time I had confidence, and even complicity, with many who believed or said that we had to fight to defend the historical rights of Catalonia, its language, its culture, in a negligent Spanish environment, when not hostile. I've never been independentist or anti-Spanish, you know? , because I have pagan roots– and it is difficult to thrive according to what urban legends–, but I did inherit from my elders a naive faith in all those who said they loved Catalonia and wanted to defend it. Jordi Pujol seemed to me a very careful satrap, but with an epic behind it. Then we have known what we have known, but, even so – still – my God, the worst moment of pujolista I now desire blessed glory compared to what its heirs have done, including among their heirs to the lords of the PSC, already irremediably handed over to the process while the process helps them to close the way to no other political alternative that questions the hegemony of « sociovergency in Catalonia. Few people had as much in their favor as we Catalans, to do things right in the 1980s, when we came out of the struggle against Francoism bruised but quite united in the essentials. Hence, the Law of Linguistic Normalization of 83 was passed in this Parliament with an extraordinary consensus, with a flame of goodwill. Already then I suppose that not everyone agreed at all, but there was a basic agreement not to bring disagreements to the limit, in which it had to be possible to defend and promote the Catalan language – the language of my peers, of my opinions, of the first poems that I read and write – without reneging on the Spanish language, which, however much you want to present it as a foreign language or of imposition, is not true – it is not true. It is a language that a vast majority of Catalans carry in our DNA, in our heart; a language that we love and that we cannot see abused and despised without suffering. The same way we break our color when someone tries to miss out on respect for the Catalan language. Is it so hard to hear that Catalonia needs all its languages? And that trying to force any Catalan to refuse any of them is leaving him in no one's land? Look, I know that many of you like to talk about Citizens as an anti-Cathalan party, as a party born just to create problems, as a party trying to win in the courts what it loses in the polls. You don't fall for that phrase in your mouth since my party has had to face the biggest harassment and destruction maneuver since Adolfo Suárez suffered it. Do you remember Adolfo Suárez, whom everyone now speaks so well? Do you remember when the right wing did not forgive him for legalizing the Communist Party and when Alfonso Guerra called him « the Mississippi tahur, because the PSOE could not be expected to do even five more_minutes with power? Do you think this is going to happen with us, that you will be able to bury us as the UCD and then come to hypocritically cry at our burial? They lose all hope that we will let ourselves be killed as you like to kill, politically, civilly and by the back, anyone who takes the opposite and disputes the control of the schools and the courtship. Because Ciutadans was born precisely to give voice to all Catalans, who are many, that we do not fit in the mold of a «socio-vergence that is changing from acronyms, name and even lamb skin, but that to what it never renounces is never classism, supremacism and even cruelty. Because it has to be cruel not to want to see that forced monolingual immersion is bad for children, bad for families, bad for schools, bad for Catalonia. They have been told by the judges; they are told by the Constitution. And I don't care what little laws and decrees you take out of the joke to avoid your obligation, which is to comply with court sentences and respect the rights, the feelings of the people. I don't care if the PSC wants to save the face of this brewery of decree that boasts of its will not to comply with the twenty-five_per_cent, the miserable twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish, which, as a program of minimums, has had to fix the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia. Because the PSC has been and is with the shameful law passed in this Parliament precisely for that purpose: to mock the Constitution, to laugh at the judicial judgments and the rights of the people. And today's decree is simply one more step, one more pimple, one more barbarity, one more huddle of a government and of a people who think they are above good, evil and common sense. And let us know that so far it has seemed so, thanks to the PSC and its useful vote – although I should perhaps say « useful fool, as my colleague Nacho Martín Blanco has already pointed out – and also thanks to a socialist government of the nation that should put to work the high inspection of the state, which we all pay with our taxes, and which instead abandons us at the feet of the horses, pardoning again and again those who fail the laws and break the coexistence, and punishing again and again the meek of heart, that we are supposed to suffer everything in silence. No, look, he'll suffer, but not in silence. Ciutadans is not going to give up; it is not going to disappear, by many trap laws and infumable decrees that you try to impose with a roll of parliamentary majority, which is neither a majority, nor is it truly united – s'ha vist prou –, nor represents any real consensus in Catalan society. The consensus that you sell is the bitter bread of tiredness, despair, abstention, "what will be done to you. Just everything that Ciutadans was born against and against which will resurrect as often as necessary. We are not afraid to lose choices; we will win them again. We are not afraid of your rigged polls, your hostile OPAs, your eternal dirty game, your infinite insulting all of disheartened Catalonia that, disillusioned, you have not gone to vote in mass to you; you have stayed at home because you were saddened. But out of sadness comes out, gentlemen, out of the process comes out, and even out of immersion and this stupid war of tongues we will come out. Because, citizens of Catalonia, we are here, we will be here again and we will remain faithful to the service of this people for ever more. Visca Catalunya!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.175.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.176.0	Well, thank you very much, President. And good morning also to the advisors who accompany us. A while ago there was President Aragonès. I see you've had to leave the Chamber. Well, today we are debating this decree, 6/2022, of 30 May, setting out the criteria applicable to linguistic projects of educational establishments, or also known as the decree of disobedience. Of course, I must recognize to you on this occasion honesty, which is not very common within nationalism. Just a few days ago, a former CUP deputy openly explained to us how they had deceived Catalans by promising them independence in 2017. In fact, some of us were tired of saying this, while you swore and perjured that "we had to touch it and that international recognitions were going to arrive in mass; "that you take them out of my hands, he failed to say to Puigdemont, while he proposed his flight to Belgium, leaving his comrades hanging at once. But, as I say to you, on this occasion I recognize the sincerity: you have invented this decree in order to fail to comply with a judicial decision. Clearer the water. And this is not an interpretation that we do, but that you have proclaimed it to the four winds. Well, let an autonomous government announce a drum and platter that will disobey a sentence and that will violate rights is not only a scandal, but, of course, it is also a pulse to the government and the rule of law itself, for which it would obviously be possible to expect a strong response from the executive. But, of course, when that executive is led by Pedro Sánchez and by a socialism handed over to nationalism, not only nothing happens, but it seems that the bad guys are the others. Asking for sentences to be served and rights guaranteed is fraught with discord and rift, while the PSOE and its colleagues are all peace and good. Come on, the usual rascal. The judgment that sets the languages of teaching in Catalonia is very clear: twenty-five per cent minimum in Catalan and Spanish, conveyed through subjects, subjects, fields or, as you, Mr Cambray, want to call it. Does this premise respect the decree? No, no, From here on, I think there is nothing more to talk about, because in a rule of law, compliance with the law and justice is not optional and does not go according to your tastes and preferences; respect for the law and the rights of others is the foundation of political order and social peace. And here, not one thing or the other. You, Mr Cambray, have come to say that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia seems aberrant to you. And I insist again: it doesn't matter whether you think it's aberrant or wonderful, it's irrelevant, it's that all citizens respect or must respect court decisions. And if above that citizen is a councillor of a government, then for even more reason. Because if there is something aberrant is to see nationalism, day and day too, it is dedicated to discrediting justice, and not by habit ceases to be serious. But you have continued to hold that pulse and you have come to ask the addresses of the centers and the teachers to follow the same as until now, not to change their projects, adding that the Generalitat would give all the legal and legal shield to the addresses to reaffirm the Catalan school. And for this you have taken this decree law out of the sleeve, with which you intend to continue to corner Spanish, as you have done so far, forcing families to have to denounce one by one all linguistic projects that do not respect the system of linguistic conjunction. And I remind you that, besides, the TSJ has already buried not one, nor two, but a lot of linguistic projects that precisely did not respect the system of linguistic conjunction. Well, I believe that not to abide by a judicial decision and to disregard blatantly, moreover, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court – certainly, jurisprudence that cannot be ignored, and likewise recognizes it the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which you cited in your own intervention – is more than sufficient reason to vote against this decree. But if we look at the contents of the decree above... it's that you can vote against it four more times, Mr. Cambray. Look, it says in the decree that Catalan must be the language of its own, the language normally used, the language of the vehicle and the language of learning and the language of normal use in the reception of pupils. It also says that you will guarantee the full written and oral mastery of both languages at the end of the compulsory schooling stage. They also say that it is necessary to analyse the socio-linguistic environments of the centre and also the environment in general, and that they will not apply numerical parameters, proportions or percentages in the teaching and use of languages. Let's split it up. You insist on the story of your own language, because, of course, that automatically does what it does is to turn Spanish into an improper language. So, as I say, another reason to vote against. Two. They say they will guarantee the full oral and written mastery of both languages, when you intend to teach only in one. It's like I say I'm gonna win the New York marathon without training a single day. Well, it doesn't hang up, Mr. Cambray, it's just that there's no way to do that, you know? And I also wonder how you're going to believe it, because you here have explained to us today that great novelty of the sixth and fourth tests of the ESO, which are already existing tests. It is true that you have created a new oral test, but I repeat, are you so convinced of the full mastery of Castilian and Catalan students? Why don't we do national tests? Of course, it's just proof that you do... what you want me to say to you; I'm not suspicious, I'm not going to believe it directly. But if you are so convinced, then, listen, we do homologable tests at the national level, and we will see how it can be that children with two hours of Spanish a week have the same level or better than Rioja children who are twenty hours a week. It's just that it's an unlikely thing. I'm telling you, if that's what I'm proclaiming and tweeting, I'm gonna win the New York Marathon. Anyway... Three. They also say that they will analyse socio-linguistic environments. I wonder who's gonna do it, this, who's gonna do it. Language Platform? They're day analysts, night harassers, aren't they? The same is true of an environment that is boycotted by a restaurant. And, by the way, we don't care, what children talk about in their environment or talk about in their home; what we want is for children to leave school with a cult record, not a colloquial record. And then, fourth, they say they're not going to apply numerical parameters, proportions or percentages. I ask you, Mr Cambray, how do you think the courses are organized? It's just that you have a complete lack of knowledge. Mrs. Geis knows it much better, that she is a defender of the percentages, in addition to an eighty_per_cent..., what twenty-five, an eighty_per_cent Catalan at the university. It would be good if they talked and agreed, because if not then, then they do a little ridiculously so, in public, the truth. More stuff. You also spoke of a supposed pedagogical consensus which I do not know and which, moreover, that supposed pedagogical consensus which you are talking about, is totally contrary to the international pedagogical consensus. It is that from all international bodies they are told that the immersion system harms the rights of students. What consensus is that? And please stop speaking on behalf of all teachers and the entire educational community. I remind you, Mr Cambray, that you have not known how many strikes already in this course, precisely the strike that was intended to claim the system of linguistic immersion was the one that had the least incidence. And I also tell you that a platform has been born that is called Free Teachers, which is precisely against the call, wrongly called "linguistic immersion." Therefore, please stop filling your mouth by talking about an alleged overwhelming Catalan pedagogical consensus, which I already tell you does not exist, and also speaking on behalf of the entire faculty. Look, as I said, the decree is invocable in itself and, moreover, it must be added that you have created it ad hoc in order to deliberately fail to comply with a sentence. And this decree, therefore, would last a second if we had a government of Spain that was decent, but of course, as we have one captained by Pedro Sánchez, because he does not want to take it to the Constitutional Court, which would automatically be suspended. But, fortunately, we are not all like Mr Sánchez and we are not going to give up defending the rights of the students. And we are going to do it here, in this Parliament, we are going to do it by supporting parents and, of course, we are, too, going to do it before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.177.0	And then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.178.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Vice-President, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies and also representatives of the Language Platform, who today accompany us, as well as educational community and various entities that also follow us in a virtual way. We are voting in the House on the law decree, which the Government has already approved. A decree that we have not been able to bring to Parliament's approval immediately, as well as the urgency of the moment, since we have had to wait another time, as we passed with the proposal of the law, the report of the Council of State Guarantees, report that came after the petition of some unionist parties of this chamber and that, curiously, even though some of them repeatedly discredit all our institutions and say that they do not believe, and so, you see, in cases they use and run. God forbid, the contradiction. Now, however, the Council's report and response, in the most positive sense, unanimously endorses the decree we have before us. A law decree which, together with the proposal of the law that we have already approved, are two legal instruments that have worked for such a way as to confront the feeling and the ultimate of the interview of the TSJ, in order to have thus a new legal framework with a single objective: to preserve and protect the model of Catalan school before the interferences of Spanish justice. As in the country, unfortunately, we are accustomed to the continuous repression of our language. Now, we, as the people resilient and persevering as we are, will continue to defend our language and our schools. After all that they did as they did to Junts in order to reach a more consensual and accepted agreement for entities and educational community, this decree is a key and fundamental piece for us, because we believe it can be used to deal with this judicial debate. As with Juntes, this decree is also key to the reaffirmation that is made of the català and the finding by law that català is a vehicle language to the educational centers and the binding language, as also the decree has to serve to protect the direct and teaching teams and, above all, a very relevant thing: the inapplication of numerical parameters and percentages to the teaching of languages is valid. The decree specifies, therefore, clearly and català, that català is the language to be used in schools, as it also says that it is necessary to ensure that the student has the oral and written domain of català and castella at the end of the compulsory teaching, having present the socio-linguistic part of the centre and the general part to ensure the effectiveness of the educational and linguistic projects. Hence the great importance and relevance of the linguistic projects, which they aim to achieve the teaching and use of official languages in each of the educational centres. Linguistic projects that will be evaluated and, if necessary, modified and revised, if they do not achieve the objectives marked and validated for the Department; department that will take full responsibility for the legality of the project that it validates, with the firm will thus protect the center directions. The decree insists on the Catalan language as a vehicle, and placing the català as the center of gravity of the education system, and this implies, by definition, a differential treatment of the two languages to its if, without exclouring the castle as the doccent language. And on the inapplicability of numerical parameters or percentages, which says so clearly the law decree, as is the Council's report, neither the Constitution, nor the State, nor the basic legislation of the State, nor the Catalan legislation, nor the Constitutional Court, on the multiple occasions when all these standards have been interpreted, they have at any time established this rule, nor just any other similar rule for which there are fixed concrete percentages of distribution of official languages and their use in teaching. It is and corresponds to the Generality, in the development of its competitions, to determine the way or system of how to be guaranteed. Already in the thirty-year additional provision of the LOMLOE it is said that they respect the competences of the Generality to determine the most appropriate pedagogical option on the distribution of the use of official languages. With the proposal of the law and, today, with the approval of this decree, we will have instruments for such a face-to-face legal and political battle before these courts. And with conviction, and that would be our will, after the unanimous approval of all the members of the Guarantee Board..., the decree, which is arranged as proposed by the law. We believe that this step would still help better the protection of català and the protection of our educational centres. We wear two months; two months that we have worked, listened to, dialogued and done together, inside and outside the school community, with the educational community and with the Entities of the Language and Platform for Language, because their cry was unanimous: don't leave us alone, protect the centers and the language. And with these premises we've all worked. For all this, I would like to thank everyone's work and willingness and willingness to come to terms with this decree. And to hear that he's holding on to some new tool, that maybe he won't be enough, you know, but he's holding on to it. Call to give an answer to the difficult situation that our Catalan school and language is experiencing. We know that maybe you won't be able to shield the whole català. We know that there is a great historical will to persecute our language, to reduce the català in many areas. As Junts we will not allow and always defend the català as the language of the state. Now, we also know that the Catalan will only be armored when we become an independent state. Sometimes there are people who can still doubt it, that independence is the only solution. We, like Junts, are not convinced. And with us, a lot of other people. Hence the strength of this Parliament, with such a clear majority of independenceist parties. We, and as a lot of people in this country, are not done. The feeling of hardship that we have with the country every time is higher and good part of Catalan society long ago that they say it and that we continue to say it, rather than: rather to the disinvestment in infrastructures, rather to the details of our self-government, rather to the repression, rather to the constant historical persecution of our language, rather than to the lesser of an identity. And that is why the wording of this decree responds to the fact that we are not yet an independent country and that we are still under Spanish law and the judicial arbitrariness of the Spanish State. If we want things to be different, only independence can make them different. We, together with Junts, are at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.179.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.180.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... also welcome the public that accompanies us today. We said it the other day and we repeat it today: against the one who flattens the way to the robes, there is as we have always been. We can't stay passed and we haven't done it. With firmness and a good path, and above all, for the defense of the common good. That's why the other day we approved the law's proposal on the use of official language learning in non-university teaching. And, today, we will validate this decree, which sets out the criteria applicable to the development, approval, validation and revision of the linguistic projects of the educational centres, which will allow us to continue with the defense of the Catalan school model; that is, the final legal responsibility of the Government. Let us ratify and celebrate, therefore, the consensus that language is worth it, that the citizenship of this country is worth it, but above all, that school, its students and teachers deserve it. There is a eighty_per_cent in favor of protecting the language of the country. We would have liked to repeat and expand the consensus a few days ago, but some have political lines mass of party, little country. However, we do not allow party interests to contaminate the defense of a model based on social cohesion, equity, equal opportunities and culture. Country and language, as it can't be any other way. That said, and entering the law decree, in the first place, with this decree, the Department of Education protects the directions of the educational centers. We're important and vital. It was obvious that before the feeling of the TSJ that attacks linguistic immersion and wants to impose a twenty-i-five percent of the classes in the castle, the Government would not be left with open arms and would therefore assume responsibility for the linguistic projects of the educational centers. So, it is the government that takes responsibility for the language projects and will be the one that will validate that the language projects conform to the law. And yes, you, the right-wing parties and the extreme right, bring to the courts what they cannot win by political consent or the ballot box, follow the school, follow the language or the political rights. And yes, Mrs. Grau, I did. I certainly liked his comedy speech – it seemed like a comedy speech, but in any case, it was fine. Leave the school in pau. Leave the directions and the masters in peace, work in peace for the sake of the students of this country. The only percentage we accept is what comes out of these great consensuss of this chamber. We will not, therefore, allow them to make the directions and the teachers live under the span of Damocles continuously. Education is and must be in the hands of those close to it. And the master lines, through political consensus. And I'm telling them we won't rest 'cause I'm not gonna stop being like this. The pedagogy to the centres and the politics to the Parliament, not to the courts. And we'll do everything in our hands to protect the Catalan school model, everything in our hands politically. In the second place, the decree allows us to stipulate the direct redesign of the percentages. We point out that the teaching of the languages in the centres has to be long term from the cultural and linguistic reality of each of the centres and does not agree with numerical parameters, proportions or percentages, because we know that the elaboration of the linguistic project cannot avoid the cultural and linguistic diversity of the studentship of the centre. For this reason, the elaboration of the linguistic projects of the centres and the regulation of the teaching and use of the languages to be included must be considered as objective criteria, such as the socio-linguistic background of the centre, the objectives of linguistic normalization, respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, and the levels of linguistic knowledge of the alumni which are accredited by means of tests and periodic assessments which are already done, but which also take account of the oral part. And why this is possible – as the Councillor was already advancing – several studies on socio-linguistic reality have been carried out at the educational centres in Catalonia, as these data are decisive to know the starting scenario respects the degree of absolutity of the objective of achieving the teaching and use of official languages in each of the centres of the educational system in Catalonia. Because it is evidence that the reality of the country is complex and heterogeneous. We cannot allow the same linguistic project to be applied to all centres in the country. And, with all this, we will embrace a plan of action with rigour, strategy and consensus that will allow us to work in the right direction, in the end, to complete the one that reverses the decree on the basic objectives: the guarantee that the student takes away the oral and written domain of the catalá and the castle at the end of the compulsory teaching. And because that's respect and function, the Education Inspectorate will follow up on the application of the linguistic project of each center, already in the mark of their regular visits or in the pulse plan for the language and in a specific action plan. As I had said before, we would do everything for the language and for the pedagogical good of the students. And, lastly, it is necessary and urgent to approve this decree because it is essential to count immediately, with sufficient antelace, with the proper standard mark in order to prepare the proper course 2022-2023. The only standard instrument that allows us to approve quickly the tools we need now, this direct protection of the directions of the centers, is this decree law; we can neither play there nor tempt alternatives. The law decree contemplates and specifies the law that we approved a few days ago, that generic legal framework to fix the pedagogical criteria to a concrete, decreed law, that extends the percentages of the school. And, as you know, there is still the deployment, in the decree, of the title II of the LEC, which the department will present briefly and which will also add elements to the long term and in which we must continue to work with all of them. So let's go through all the tools and make them complete without tempting fate. The tools we have in the abaster, the resources we can provide to it are these, and that's why it was important to do it. So we validate this decree and keep the català as the center of gravity of the public education service in Catalonia and extend the courts of the schools. The school, therefore, adapts to the complex changes and transformations that have accelerated in recent years for the evolution of technology, digitization, globalization, new trends and new pedagogical challenges, and we will accompany it with legal and pedagogical transformation and security. Finally, I would like to reiterate my thanks to all the people who have made it possible for this agreement to continue today and have provided all their knowledge and knowledge for the sake of the country's educational model. We are continuing to work for these broad consensuses before those who want to use language to conflict, and do not let them divide us with the country for linguistic questions – for us it will not be. And I'm still staying for a while. And let's put it there, Mrs. Ndiaye: as always, when they're interested, the opponent is wrong – the opponent is wrong. The leaders of the situation in the Catalan school in this country are not from Esquerra Republicana, nor are they from the Department of Education: they are from the extreme right-wing parties, which have dedicated themselves to contaminating, and from the courts that have laid their eyes on the directions of the centers. Look, we can disagree in the model of school: you want a school in a block, you want a government that handles and some educational centers and some directions that obey, and you don't believe in the autonomy of center, of course, perfect, but can you really say that we are moving the way of toga? So it's a shame, ma'am. Make it clear that from the Republican Left we will do everything to ensure that the Catalan follows the language of the country's education system, despite what they say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.181.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us, therefore, vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2022. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree Law 6/2022_was validated with 71 votes in favour and 60 votes against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In accordance with Rule 158.4 of our Rules of Procedure, I ask whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this Decree as a draft law. [[Pause.]] Yeah. So, as there are various petitions from parliamentary groups, let's vote if this decree is to be dealt with as the bill. We believe that the votes in favour are in favour of their handling as proposed by the law, and the votes in favour are contrary. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, the decree has been validated, and it will not be dealt with as the bill, with 53 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 5 abstentions. We suspend the session and resume it at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.182.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 14/2017 of 20 July 2017 on guaranteed income of citizens (debate of totality)]] [[202-00006/13]] We have done so with the fourth point of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the proposed law of amendment of the Law 14/2017, of 20 July, of the guaranteed income of citizens. This legislative initiative has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can. So, to introduce her, first of all, Mrs Jessica González has the word, for a maximum of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.183.0	Thank you, President. First of all, we welcome organizations and movements that accompany us today. We have or will soon, in the proper minutes, representatives of ECAS, representatives of the commission of the People's Legislative Initiative for a Guaranteed Income of Citizenship. We have members of Caritas. We will also shortly have Marta Ribas, to whom we send a special greeting, because she worked hard for this proposal to amend the last legislature, not only in this proposal, but in general, to advance in that the rights and social policies of this country are advancing. So, thanks to Marta, too, and I hope I'm on top of this one. And, of course, we salute the members of the governing committee, with some of whom we have been talking recently these days, these weeks, and will also recover this parliamentary debate, and we hope that you find this parliamentary debate useful. Let us remember that today we are with the law of guaranteed citizenship income, which comes at the time of a popular legislative initiative, which deploys Article 24.3 of the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, which is the article that provides that persons or families who are in a poor situation have the right to have access to a guaranteed income that assures them of a minimum of dignity. It's in this brand that we're developing the law we're dealing with today. And since it was approved in 2017, this law, the result of the consent of the parliamentary groups of this chamber, has given response to some emergencies, but we consider that, even so, they still do not feel a solution for the bulk of the family units that suffer situations of risk of poverty or severe poverty. Today, for example, Caritas, in a press release published to Social. In May 2022, only 172,800 people received help from the Foessa report; that is to say, that this aid is currently up, according to official data, to the twenty-i-vuit_per_cent of people who are in a situation of severe poverty; that is to say, only up to one of four people who need it, an absolutely insufficient amount of money to cover the entire collection of people in a situation of exclusion from the conjunction of Catalonia. In addition, we have the most worrying taxes of child poverty: we have one_of_each_four infants to find themselves in a situation of severe poverty. And it's just in this sense, and they recognize – go for it – that the law of guaranteed citizenship income is a very good tool, but they clearly recognize that it's a good tool and they recognize its limitations, that we submitted this modification proposal last July to make it effective, because the goal is that no person is in a situation of extreme poverty, and it's not complete; it's just coming, as it was before, to about thirty per cent. And it is also important to say that the proposals for better results in this proposed amendment that we are presenting today are not an exclusive work of In Comú Pode, nor much less. Obviously, this issue has been worked internally with people in our group, people who have been in the front line of attention, but we would like to highlight above all that many of the concrete proposals made to us have arrived at organizations, social movements, unions, on various occasions – in fact, presented even in this very Parliament. When in May 2020 – and here we make a little bit of a history – the state government BOE published the creation of the vital minimum income, provided that, even with many limitations – and here too the criticisms must be made, it had in principle the objective of guaranteeing admissions to families that were in a poor situation throughout the State..., its approval, of course, did not make the Catalan rule disappear, but only that two compatible entrance guarantee benefits were set, and this was found to be compatible. For this reason, this obliged us to make some adjustments, to make some changes, necessary to make this complementarity effective and to increase, of course, the effectiveness of the sum of the two important stakes to improve the lives of the families that needed it. And, in fact, in this line, August 2020, the Government..., former Councillor Chakir El Homrani promoted a law to make changes to this guaranteed income of citizenship, but Parliament was not approved, precisely because it did not resolve the changes necessary for the guaranteed income of citizenship, and, from another band, because it poorly solved those changes necessary to supplement the vital minimum income. After this – I'm talking about August 2020 – we are, of course, going through a pandemic per over, which has led to a further rise in the poverty risk rate. And from August 2020 we come today, 29 June, two years later, to resume an assignment pending at parliamentary level. An assignment pending not only for this Parliament, but also pending for the two governments of the Generality, the two last governments of the Generality, which in these two years have not been placed with urgency that the context asked us to modify the law and expand its coverage. Counselling tells us that the fact that we didn't have a waiting list for the guaranteed income performance of citizens was enough – the fact that we didn't have a list – when we knew perfectly well that we didn't have a list because the conditions of access to this service are very limited. So not many people agree to ask, in fact, this performance, and that is why it should expand them. And, for another band, as the aggravating factor of this whole situation, we have the update of Catalonia's performance indicator pending. This factor is the figure that absolutely determines... well, the top of all the help and all the social benefits of this country, and we've been frozen for 12 years, period in which the IPC has increased a twenty-i-set_per_cent. And, plus, as if that wasn't enough, today we've taken a specific 10.20_per_cent of inflation, which is the highest we've had in the last few years. And, despite all these data – inflation, CPI, a guaranteed income that doesn't have to come up – there has been a immobilism on the part of the government to face this worrying socio-economic context. Until late yesterday, in fact, we had a message to the totality of this law on behalf of the Republican Left and Juntes for Catalonia. Counsel – good late, who had not given him the good late, before – in debates and in inquiries that we have previously had in this Parliament, and in committees, when we specifically asked him what was going on with guaranteed income, which is a tool we have, mainly you were talking about around three arguments, right? – more, however, simplifying... In the first place, he told us that the Commission of the Government of Guaranteed Income, which is contemplated in the same law, was working there, and, in fact, we know that it is working there. In fact, we do not put it in doubt at any time; we respect and fully trust the criteria of the governing committee. But what we also know is that some of the government committee entities were talking about this perception of a strategy of delay on the part of the government, which is ultimately driving this committee, and it could not, therefore, speed up the process. Secondly, apart from this argument, you were talking to us, you would advise, that the movements of modification of guaranteed and high income of the index of income of sufficiency of Catalonia, in any case, are subject to the transposition of the vital minimum income by part of the State. And here, from In Comú Puede, there we are. We agree that this transfer is to be given, we defend this position here in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the State, and at all events, but what we do not believe is that at the moment this can be an excuse for improving the performance we have in Catalonia. Because, like the sovereigns we are, we believe that the guaranteed income of citizenship is a self-governing tool that Catalonia has, and that if the sovereign did not put all the tools that the Government of Catalonia has in the fort to improve the life of the Catalan people, then, what did the sovereigns go about? – especially when we talk about vulnerable people. And, in the third place, you, counsel, also spoke to us about the pilot proof of the universal basic income that is in development. And we, who, in fact, from Comú We can have a position in favor of universal basic income and it seems to us that these models are being explored... this is not to say that we use the tools we already have. Then, after all this argument, we finally find ourselves, so, with an unexpected turn of guidance, that yesterday late, from the parliamentary groups of Republican Left and Junts, he withdrew the slogan to the totality. And we must also say that we are celebrating this rectification of the position. And we celebrate it not only from In Comú We can, but above all, insist that these requests for modifications that we discuss today present them with many of the organizations, entities and movements that give direct attention and that make an incidence in the first line and that know perfectly well what the gravity of the situation is. Entering into the content of the law modification – and I will be very brief – we plan to introduce it mainly in four areas: facilitate access requirements, improve quantities, eliminate conditionality – the fact that job insertion routes are being followed – and improve the management of the aid, obviously include a single window with vital minimum inputs, which, in concrete terms, means reducing the minimum age to demand the guaranteed income from twenty-three to twenty-one years. Secondly, incorporate in it people who, even if they are not registered, because we know that this right is being violated in many municipalities of Catalonia, so they can find ways to prove that they are living in Catalonia. In the third place, to match the performance with the returns of the work, and, in the same way, to improve the amount..., in fact, to double the amount of the performance per child to the families. This, in concrete terms, is a proposal by Save the Children. Currently this amount is one hundred euros; the idea is to move from one hundred to two hundred euros to improve precisely the taxes we have on child poverty. And, lastly, after all these changes that we will discuss and debate when the time comes, not less important, and... well, today the councilwoman may not have the opportunity to express it, but we would like to point out that last week the state government announced a 15-percent boost to the vital minimum, and yet the government of Catalonia has not demonstrated how and how these moneys will land on the pockets of people who need it or if it will somehow be absorbed by the generality's assumption, because if families benefit they will be losing money on the issue of inflation, right? , that we have an inflation of the deu_per_cent, obviously, its ability to buy low and will have to adjust somehow. And we will either need a decree or that the Generality or the department in some way manifest like this fifteen per cent, this push that was made from the State, will also manifest to the Catalan families. Finally, after all this historical and historical exposition and this rest of the specific changes we are discussing, we greatly appreciate to the parliamentary groups the fact of withdrawing this item. We give thanks to the entities and the movements that make their technical work, but not only technical, but also political influence, which helps us, in this Parliament, to put the where really there are needs and shortcomings. And, of course, we also thank the governing committee for the work we know they're doing to improve guaranteed income. Now there is a window of opportunity for all – parliamentary groups, government committee, entities, citizens – to accurately recover this consent with which the guaranteed income was approved in 2017. Now we have the opportunity to coordinate, to have specific and concrete debates, which will not be easy, because we will not agree at all – and that is clear – but, although we will not agree, they owe it to the impoverished people of this country to be at the height of the circumstances, to be at the height of this context, and to make and demonstrate with concrete facts that politics is something useful, and that it is material to improve their quality of life by guaranteeing the guaranteed return of citizenship as a subjective right, which is what it should be. Thank you very much. I hope to put us in a position to improve this law. Thanks to the groups that will support this change can be processed. And from now on, we can reiterate that this is not our topic, but this goes from country to country, this goes from the precariousness in which there are many families, this goes from the work that entities do, sometimes without success. And what we've done is take these contributions and, finally, translate them into a text, which is a starting point to talk about it, to put us on board, and, as I said before, to make politics useful that improves people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.184.0	Then again, as the parliamentary groups of Juntes for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana have withdrawn the threat to totality, we continue to follow the interventions of the parliamentary groups to express their position. And it has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.185.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, he will advise; the guests, too, who are at the rostrum: commission promoter, ECAS, Caritas, other entities that accompany us, former deputy Marta – welcome... Today the Parliament of Catalonia has to decide whether to review the law of guaranteed income of citizens five years after their inn on the march. Our parliamentary group believes that yes, that is to be done, this revision. Guaranteed income has been modified twice. This was the third, more extensive, but before it was modified twice: the year 2018, when the Government considered that those victims of male violence and those people who were not at home in a residential appeal did not have the right to claim the guaranteed income from citizenship, we made a change to it so that it could have a right; and the year 2020, to reduce the terms in which people had to prove their economic insufficiency, and, therefore, already facilitate access to this service. And during these five years we have seen the difficulties in implementing these types of income policies. We were going to have to wait three years to keep the law's rules. We have even seen the partial outsourcing of the management of a public service, lords and lords of the Republican Left – the outsourcing of the management of a public service – ; as the absence of an information system delayed the first years of the law's operation; as far as the seventy, eighty_per_cent of the requests were denied; as they trigated up to six_months for some notification or for taking an appointment, or as they denied guarantees without justification. And I'm not saying this as a criticism: I see the realities and difficulties in implementing this type of performance, this type of return guarantee policies, some of which are also produced today with the minimum vital ingredient – some of which are also produced with the minimum vital ingredient. Count on those who have short memories and criticize the realities that they themselves have provoked. Facing two similar services does not build anything; it impoverishes the debate, because there are structural elements of the system that make it difficult. At the frontispice, the general objective of guaranteed income was that 2021 the person in Catalonia entered under 664_euros per month. Did we get it? No; obviously, no. And how are we five years later? Five years after its application, we have 104,000 guaranteed income shipments; two years after its application, we have 36,842 vital minimum income shipments. This means that thirty-five percent of the people who earn a guaranteed income are receiving the vital minimum income with services that are put into the loop at times and in very different contexts. And, in general terms, why should this law reform serve us? First, because it is easier and faster to ask for it; to facilitate the creation of a single window between the guaranteed income of citizenship and the vital minimum income; because it can be compatible with the help of housing and labor returns – not as indicated in the document presenting the commons, but we need to look, under our point of view, for another formula. Compatibility with state-owned services. Account: Not all state-owned services can be compatible with guaranteed citizenship income. If we provide the citizen of Catalonia with a minimum of tickets, it is possible that we are making it possible that they do not have the right to receive state services. This is more complicated than it seems – Marta Ribas must remember the long debates on this issue. So one thing is what we want and one thing is what we can do. Don't try to generate expectations that we won't be able to complete later. It may reduce the timing of the current two years to one year, as the vital minimum ingredient marks, and it may redefine the role of the governing organ of guaranteed citizenship income. Some of the difficulties that we have encountered with the current law, that it is impossible to arrive at some collections, could have been solved without the reform of the law. Only by applying the current Article 7.3 of the Law, which says that any person, even if he does not complete the requirements, if he has a report of the social services that believes his vulnerability, he has the right to perceive the guaranteed income of citizenship. And there was this article just because the law couldn't have a view of all the problems that could be there, as it won't have this reform. So, there's always been an open door that if the government had volunteered... if we had a rule in time and form, we could have applied it and we could have solved the suffering of a lot of people. I said Jess Gonzalez, the deputy. What is the real problem with this subject? That, while we have a return guarantee policy, we don't even get to thirty per cent of people who are in severe poverty; not in poverty, in severe poverty. We've got a problem. With the government, with the country. They're not getting there. There's no way we can reduce inequalities. Why? I don't point out three reasons– there may be others. First, vulnerable families likely to be beneficial do not ask for benefits, do not come to social services, do not go to SOC, do not come to institutions. The poor also generate lack of political and civic participation. They're not coming. Two: those who ask for it find a lot of conditioning, we ask for masses of things. And three: presuppositionary limitations. I'll go fast, with these three. Coverage of the performance. The poor, ladies and gentlemen, we will not reduce it if we are not proactius. We're not doing it with a loan, either. That's not so easy. We need to go find the people. We have to go to the barrel where people are living in an exclusionary situation. We need to give them the opportunity to apply for the benefit. We have to count on social entities because they can also tell us who families have to be collectors or can be recipients of a guaranteed income of citizenship. It worked with the third social sector. Conditioners. We need to adapt the guaranteed income and the vital minimum income – that's what we all know –: unique window, reduction of ownership and modernization of processes. Ask, with deia, mass papers, lay mass conditions. I need to review the procedures. We understand that we are talking about public money, and, therefore, we need to look for a system..., a midpoint between an efficient system and a just system. There are those who consider that it would not be advisable to lay down any conditions. You can't get here, because, even as well as our services, to the Basque Country, which are also conditional services, they have coverages that reach up to seventy per cent of the population. And why don't they and us? Because it is not just a question of performance; it is about the modernization and interconnection of its social system and, of course, also about its financing. Financing. The Generalitat in Catalonia has assumed 300_million euros, 30_million euros less than the previous year; it has spent sixty_percent of the game, 180_million euros, on guaranteed income. For another band, the vital minimum income is at the expense of the Generality, at hour of the day, 130_million euros, the forty-three_percent of which they have assumed. Therefore, there is margin, and much, better. You will say to me: "Ah, but I spent at the end 430 million euros, of the 300 I assumed. And why don't they assume the 430 they're spending, if they know they'll be spent? Budgetary trilerism is what is the reason for this? What's the point? Look, if the generality isn't able to double the assumption of guaranteed citizenship income, we'll do nothing. We will generate expectations that will not lead to the reduction of the poor in our country. It is incompatible to say that they will allocate EUR 150_million to a universal income pilot test knowing that no country in the world that has tested these characteristics has put a universal income into the market and, at the same time, to say that we must take account of the assumption of guaranteed income or be unable to double the assumption. And this is not Madrid's fault: it's its performance, it's its law, it's its assumptions, it's its competence, and it's still lucky that the oppressive State injects four euros that are currently spent on guaranteed citizenship income. The government has no strategy to reduce inequalities in Catalonia. And if you have them, you can keep them written, but you don't apply them. Three_of_each_two Catalans are found in poor situations, according to Foessa report, and you wear two years applying the same policies. And if we apply the same policies, we'll get the same results. When they have the skills... when they don't, because they don't, and when they do, because they don't get caught. The government of the state increases by fifteen per cent the import of the vital minimum ingredient due to the difficult situation resulting from the war in Ukraine, which affects inflation, and therefore the increase in food prices and basic sub-administrations. Where's your co-responsible? Why don't they increase the IRSC? The sufficiency income index of Catalonia, two years frozen. Consider the poor the same as the years ago he was poor at this time. Nothing's happened during all these years? Do not touch the portfolio of social services, do not apply its own strategic plan of social services. The President of the Generalitat announces a €700_million xoc plan that no one has seen. They are unable to pay in time and form social entities and have converted Catalonia into a permanent waiting list. And, as well, you present papers to the full as you remove them, with a certain ease. We will vote in favour, not for the content of the proposal, but for the possibility of returning to a debate will be about the functioning of the law among all the agents involved. Let's do it again. We will try to do well, we will try to be certain, because, I insist, reducing inequalities in our country is not a question of a determined political party, it is a question of all of us continuing to modernize our system to reduce inequalities in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.186.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.187.0	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, associations that are with us today... Here is another attempt by the Communists to enslave the people. [[remorse of the voice]] , a proposal in the form of chronic alms. They do not think, they do not encourage, they do not want to encourage or promote work. Nor can we lie in this proposal to help the Catalans find a decent job to achieve their autonomy, their survival, their self-sufficiency. That is the best guaranteed income: stable employment and decent wages. [[Some applause.]] Misery. That's what this law and its modifications talk about; how it turns poverty into something endemic and pathogenic Catalan, how to turn Catalonia into a people dependent on the state, to nullify personal initiative, of indefinite assistanceism in time as a way of life. It's a shame that citizens-elected rulers charge against work and effort. It is a pity that the leaders charge against the prosperity of their own region for the sole purpose of tying citizens to a vote to keep themselves in their undeserved armchairs – and they are undeserved because their proposals do not add up, they just nullify. And it's that you never bet on what you have to bet, so it's scientifically proven that it improves people's quality of life, family stability, because it's politically different from their end. What serves them is to atomize the individual to do the most vulnerable and, thus, most in need. Numerous studies have reported an inversely proportional relationship between poverty and family stability. Sociological and anthropological research highlights, with a clear profile, that the best scenario for personal and therefore economic development is the stable family. Giving the person positive values and strengthening their integral development, as does the natural family, makes the individual strive to improve well-being. It is clear that you are not interested in this. That's why they attack the family and their values, the values it brings, and, in return, offer them paguitas. Therefore, in the face of the gifts that you offer, our bet is to strengthen the family and its economy. Faced with their crumbs, our policies of prosperity, our struggle to facilitate the way to the self-employed – those who demand abusive conditions – our effort to reduce the bureaucracy that they demand from SMEs, to eliminate the imposition of own taxes that they employ for their own benefit, on their progressive agenda, and that they lack social return, increasingly impoverishing citizens. Faced with its climate policies, our energy sovereignty, which is committed to nuclear power, which eliminates from a pen the massive upsurges in supplies with the consequent upsurges in basic consumer products, drastically reducing family incomes. Faced with their frontal attack on our industry, our tireless crusade by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, by which they generate jobs, giving stability to the family economy. And against their taxes on housing and owners, land release, tax benefits to those who decide to invest and legal certainty. The basic policies that improve the family economy, which we propose, of creating stable and quality jobs, of access to decent housing, to free and successful education, do not come into conflict with a social policy that assists the most vulnerable. Quite the contrary, they are the ones that ensure that no Spanish is dragged into poverty. Of course, in the face of extraordinary situations, temporary solutions must be provided; what we cannot accept is that these aids are transformed into a way of life by normalising what must be exceptional, which is what you propose. Their amendments seek to include the right to aid for all illegal immigrants who attack our borders and our police. You are the great promoters of the so-called effect, offering a living income to those who illegally enter our national territory. They propose to undervalue the rights of all vulnerable Spaniards and invest in income for illegal immigrants. [[Widow's remorse.]] They don't care that our welfare is shaken, that we register the longest medical waiting lists. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Excuse me, Mr. Cid, this is not the first time you've had to draw your attention. I remind you that I come here... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And here we come to work. And I also remind you – and I also remind you – that the children's area is on the ground floor. If you are not able to behave yourself as an adult, then please change. [[Strong remorse of voice and some applause.]] They do not care about Spain's longest medical waiting lists, or whether we are also the leaders on dependency lists or social housing waiting lists, or whether thirty_per_cent of the population is at risk of social exclusion. None of these people care, because it is to sell these falsely good ideas from where you get your votes, subsidizing certain groups and leaving aside the rest of the vulnerable population. But they also intend to impose a special regime for what they call ‘victims of macho violence'. We do not share your distinction between first and second victims. For you, those who embrace your ideology always deserve more than the rest. Gender ideology always leads its priorities, above and beyond helping those in need. Look, violence is already harmful regardless of who exercises it, and the confrontation between the sexes that you promote with these changes also incites violence. In short, we clash with its amendment of the law, which seeks to deepen the gender gap, which seeks to remove the requirement of legal residence to receive aid, which cuts the labour obligations for which it receives them – by abolishing the condition of following a social occupation plan – and which eliminates the few duties that are assumed of the beneficiaries, totally discouraging the initiative and the search for employment that they should have. We will vote against, because we do not want dependent and servile citizens. We do not want slaves of the state system that you intend to create. We don't want alms. We do not believe in their communist policies aimed at impoverishing the individual, destroying the family as an institution that guarantees stability and nullifying the will, initiative and desire to prosper that any citizen should have. We work to ensure real living income: stable jobs and decent wages for working families. And, before I finish my speech, I take the opportunity to ask Mrs Borràs to resign before the Rules of this Chamber oblige her to do so, for her prosecution by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia for misappropriation and forgery in contracts of the institution of Catalan Letters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.188.0	Yes, Mr. Cid. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.189.0	Yes, for Article 87, for allusions. If you allow thirty_seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.190.0	For allusions. Have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.191.0	Look, you can say what you want, but above all, what's most important is not to tell lies. And you're a liar or an undocumented woman, because no person who doesn't have papers gets guaranteed citizenship income. [[Greetings.]] So it's very important that you know what they're talking about. And to throw up hate..., or so on, we've got enough to listen to them every day, but on top of that, they don't tell lies, man. And I'm sorry, but you're an undocumented one. And that's to be rude to life, to say lies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.192.0	Then it has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.193.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... First of all, to greet effectively, also, the entities that promote this change of law that accompany us here and today, and to thank them for the work they have done for so many years without stopping fighting because this change is possible today. The guaranteed income of citizenship, as indicated in the previous interventions, has changed on various occasions and is part of Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy, which says that it must be ensured that, in a poor situation, families and persons who have been guaranteed a minimum of dignity. And, for us, this very setting is what leads to the guaranteed income of citizenship being, effectively, little effective, only to reach this twenty-eight percent of the population, to these one_of_each_four people who are in this situation. First we start saying yes. We will give, effectively, support this change, and understand that this type of reform, including this type of performance, do not fail to be pieces that continue to support an inequality based on the economic conditions of each of the people and families that they can choose, but that we see that the majority often do not even choose it, right? This change has positive questions: it expands the type of people to whom it goes, who can opt for these requests; it expands the quantities, remains the conditionality of requests to access it and proposes even new complementary services specifically for what it does to housing. For us, what that means is that, in the end, it ends up being bureaucratized, this precariousness, and that people end up wasting more time proving that she is as poor as she says she is and she loses a lot of energy and a lot of time in this process of demonstrating the precariousness that makes her choose this income and not solving the precarious situation that she finds herself in. And in the end, we end up devoting a lot of time, a lot of energy and a lot of resources to taxing this poor woman and seeing how we can reform a tool that is already obsolete, if we want it as a tool to transform these inequalities, because inequalities we just don't have to aspire to reduce them, but to eliminate them. Therefore, we must be able to be ambitious in the bets we make from this legislative chamber. And that's why we are going to support it, but obviously, we're still betting, as it can't be in any other way, for this universal basic income, which we've also heard about in previous interventions. What does not make this change of law..., is one of the questions that for us is fit, that is to ensure that the universality of this minimum income, of this basic minimum for a dignified life, is truly disconnected from conditions and that, effectively, we can say that it rises to all people in equal conditions. And that's why we're betting that, first of all, we need to map out the benefits there, which is why it's impossible to supply now, because we have bits in habitat, we have bits in social services, we have bits in education. They are all specific services and conditions for concrete areas and there is no general reading of what they are..., of the effects that the precarious situation has on many families, which ends up turning this into a vicious circle of, as we say, red tape still more of this poor woman. The transformative bet for which we are betting – worth redundancy – is indeed universal basic income, because it does guarantee this arrival to the entire population. And one of the differential questions, precisely, is this different concept between citizenship and population. One of the questions that we posed on the table with universal basic income was, precisely, that you were not connected to the status of citizenship. And here I do want to make an incision, because it has already come out to the previous interventions that precisely the transformative bet that guarantees that no one is left out of this situation, of the possibility of getting out of this precariousness, is to disconnect it from the state of citizenship. We do have a pilot test ahead of us that's on the way, because... we did make a bet on the government's part at the start of the legislature, but we have to say that, effectively, if we are trying to guarantee rights to a decent life, the rights cannot pass a test; we cannot test the rights to which they have access to this performance. Yes, it is true, as Mr Moreno pointed out before, that countries that have aspired to universal basic income there have been many shortcomings, there have been inviable ones that have made the projects not successful, but I do want to make a call to the sovereignty of this Parliament, to the gains of transformation and to go further. That it hasn't worked in other countries doesn't mean we can't be pioneers in this parliamentary chamber. We see, precisely, what didn't work, and we work, we devote energies to making it possible. I would also like to say that this pilot proof that we are talking about, that we are talking about, does not already have enough promotion on the part of the government teams. She got stuck on one side while she was on her way, but not all the promotion resources and giving it to the people because they can ask for it. And here we also agree with part of the analysis made by the Socialist Party, when it talked about the poor affecting the low turnout, and one of the solutions proposed by its parliamentary group was to go looking for those people in the barrel who are more precarious. But we cannot fail to see that it would also involve an investment in human resources which, in the end, would divert these resources that we are saying are so necessary because they are not properly financing subsidies, in general, in many cases, but concretely the guaranteed income of citizenship, and therefore we will not finish seeing it. But that is precisely why we support this change, so that we can have these debates, so that we can see how we can modify the proposals submitted so that they are as universal as possible and as effective as possible. And, obviously, we bet on this universal basic income, but accompanied by fiscal measures with an entity, with a vision of redistribution of wealth. We have said several times, that we would bet precisely to increase the tax on higher returns, and that we would see that this redistribution of wealth, well studied, could make this universal basic income viable. Because, in the end, this time that we are devoting to these partial modifications of what we get from this transformative bet towards a future, because we are very dedicated here, to the present, to see how we can go through pieces to reform things that are already, somehow, poorly designed from the beginning. And that's why we call on you to invest this time and energy in this study of a real transformation, in the long term, that we actually solve the issue of inequalities. The Group d'En Comú may also have made the point that guaranteed income from citizenship is a tool of sovereignty. And it is certain that guaranteeing a few minimums of dignified life, a few economic ones for a life worthy of the whole population, can hear 'as with an exercise of sovereignty, but always thinking of a transformation and not of a reform, which, in the end, you do is to give turns over the same situation, improving pieces, improving very small aspects, but that you do not bring us out in general, as society, to the whole population, from this precariousness that affects the majority of the country. He also mentioned the Socialist Party's companion who does not bet to not condition this income, but this is absolutely incompatible with universality. So, if we pretend to be universal, they can't be effectively conditioned, and much less on income. To the deputy of VOX, tell her that, well, you will say that they do not differentiate between first- and second-hand victims, but they do do so with refugees, assigning different speeches to refugees who have one aspect and to refugees who have another aspect. And they don't have to want slaves from the state, but they do want slaves from employers and capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.194.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.195.0	Counselor, deputies, deputies... I also greet former Congresswoman Ribas. And I already take advantage of and greet my colleague Naomi de la Calle, who was one of those who was working with many of the deputies – she was present, but she was not part of that committee, then – in the drafting of this law, with the drivers of it. First clarification: Article 24.3 – as mentioned earlier – of the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia states that persons or families who are in poverty have the right to access a guaranteed income of citizenship. It is the same statute that allows or facilitates the fact that Mrs García Fuster is a Member of this Parliament. I therefore believe that we must be consistent and try to defend the development of the statutory laws that we have in our legal system. It's very simple. We, from Ciutadans and as liberals, have always made it clear that this is what we have to do. That is why we believe and have been part of the development of this law of this guaranteed income of citizenship, which is not a "paguita, Mrs García Fuster", please. A respect. Here behind is a work of civil society, of leaders who were precisely working and indicated to the political parties of this Parliament in the tenth legislature that they had to carry out this law, which had not been developed by any government – of any government – before. They were the ones who encouraged us to do the; those who have led us, in fact, to have also seen that it is impossible, sometimes, to have good ideas and implement them correctly, because it is insufficient. I think history we know – and it has been commented on here – and it is perfectly defendable, in some cases – in others, not. There's been a history of blocking the law here. It took three years to develop its rules of procedure. Counselor, you were not, but it was so; in fact, I did live it. In addition, this law was passed in the summer of the 17th, shortly before everything happened after that, in October of the 17th. It seemed almost more like an exhibition..., or some sort of slogan law that I didn't want to implement itself in any way. And, in fact, they proved it, they proved it later. They didn't want to, they didn't want to implement this law. And we all know it, or many of us here know it. And it had to be precisely all the opposition groups that, on different occasions, pressed for this law and some of the Kafkian situations that had been seen in this Parliament, such as not paying families this income simply because they had received help from their family at some point..., because precisely these situations we had corrected, agreeing with parties as different – and I think this is obvious – as the common ones, such as the UPC, such as the PSC or like us. And sometimes it's okay. In fact, I was talking today, when we started this debate, with the drivers, and they were asking us – and I am going to pass it on here – for consensus. We were asked for the same consensus that was achieved in 2017, because that consensus of the opposition in 2017, beyond the figures and of those who were at that time with more or less deputies, was the one that managed to at least come to the point that this law had to come to an end. We... are not going to vote, because the amendment has been withdrawn from the whole, which I appreciate, although we find it very strange that it takes so long to withdraw the amendment from the whole, or that it will be withdrawn the day before – they will already explain it to us, now I'm sure they will explain it to us – but we believe that this law has to be reformed. Not in the terms proposed by the commons, but I think they already know that, so one of the things that has possibly changed the momentum of these changes is that they are done from one group and possibly the most appropriate thing is that they were done from all groups, but I think that we can correct it during the presentation, there will be no problem. But I believe that it is necessary to do so, and to do so urgently, in order to correct many of the serious problems that we have right now. The guaranteed income of citizenship does not arrive, it does not reach those who need it. There's been talk here of a quarter, thirty-per-cent... no matter what, it doesn't reach anyone who needs it. And those who arrive do not arrive properly and properly either. The value of the income to be collected in each case has not been updated. And there are some of the situations that are not developing for us. One – and we will put a lot of emphasis during the processing – is the insertion plans. The integration plans, which complement the income and which should be, from our point of view, the centre of this work, of these routes of inclusion, of social integration, which can help not only to cover that income, but also to generate new opportunities, second chances, to people who have lost them, who no longer have them. That's liberal politics. Mrs García Fuster, again, you can pay an income for a time to help those who do not have opportunities in our society, so that they can have them again; so that they can, precisely, compete with the rest of the citizens, because they have certainly not had the same luck as others in developing their vital project. It's just that, your vital project. We believe that much more emphasis needs to be placed on this. We also believe that during the presentation there will be topics such as, for example, housing, which you include here and that we have not just seen, as expressed in the law. We believe that all income, both national income and guaranteed income of citizenship, must be compatible, but we must not include other aids, but make them compatible. They already exist. I mean, we have to order – I think we have a problem in Catalonia –..., we have to order the social aid that exists in our autonomous community. I think you can do it, we have to do it, but it's not being done. And I think this paper can be done. I'm not going to say much more, because, in the end, even though we had or I wanted to expose a whole series of principles that we've been defending over these years, it's not worth it that..., I'm going to save you a couple of minutes, which I don't usually do. I think it is important simply to launch this message, the one that the promoters are launching: let us agree, let us sit down, let us move and reform this law, let us push as has been done other times and let us be able to park some speeches, populist discourses – come from wherever they come from – that will not help this law to be effective. And that we can really do enough pedagogy so that the Government, which in the end has opposed and has put continuous obstacles to it for many years, understands that one way, many times, of introducing capacities and simply introducing the possibility that many will move forward and be able to complete their vital project is this income. And I think it's important. And for us it's a social investment that we can't let go. Thank you very much, President, Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.196.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.197.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Greetings also to the councillor and, of course, to the people who accompany us, members of entities, to former MP Marta Ribas, who knows the topic perfectly and who was in the process of that popular initiative of 2017. They reminded you now that you were not the Counsellor, but you were a Member of this Parliament, and therefore you also know in depth the difficulties with which the promoters met at that first beginning. And they're difficulties that, unfortunately, they haven't given up in all these years, have they? We speak..., from 2017 to 2022, and it is true that we continue to drag many of the problems that we have already detected in the beginning, which have been tried to correct over the last few years through decrees and modifications, but which are still not necessary, especially after the crisis we are experiencing, which has obviously worsened with the situation of the pandemic and also now, with inflation, with war, etc.. That is, we are in a very complex situation, which, if it had already made it necessary in 2017 to implement this guaranteed income of citizenship, now even more. I warn you that I am not going to spend all the time, because many of the things have been said here already today and because, moreover, the groups that had tabled the amendment have withdrawn it, and therefore that means that this law is going to follow its course and we will have the opportunity to open a paper. It is true that we may be more in agreement on the explanatory statement of the proposal for a law than in some of the aspects that are then regulated in the normative body, but I insist that we will have the opportunity to present amendments throughout the process that we hope can enrich the text, and above all that we hope that they can achieve that consensus that they also ask us from the entities, which I believe that on an issue like this, for, frankly, it would be worth it that we were able to achieve. I think the data speaks for itself. Just a few days ago, the President of the Third Sector Taula confirmed the high percentage of people, Catalans, in severe poverty. Almost 900,000 people are already spraying. If we talk about child poverty, one_of_each_three children is also at risk of severe poverty, and I think it is important that, obviously, from the institutions, we get to work. One of the demands, of the demands we have been making or listening to since recent times, is that better coordination between the guaranteed income of citizenship and, of course, the minimum vital income. I think it is one of the points that addresses this proposal and with which we fully agree, because it is true that situations that can even be discriminatory in some cases, are also giving themselves duplications, and I think it would be good if we could coordinate it in some way; I do not know if it has to be through direct management by the Generalitat – I insist, we will have time in the paper to talk about it – but it is clear that we have to improve on that management there. We must, of course, also update Catalonia's sufficiency income indicator, because without that we do nothing, and we have 2010 figures that are completely out of date in 2022. And I remember an intervention you made at the end of last year, in which you yourself recognized this situation, where you spoke of the obvious need to improve this benefit, but that it has finally not materialised in anything. So we have approved some budgets and yet the official income indicator is still unchanged and I therefore believe that the Government of the Generalitat has to do its duties here, because it is not doing it. We have also spoken..., said Congressman Moreno, I think it was, that, obviously, we are not reaching out to the people who need this benefit, and I think it said – I have pointed out this way – that poverty generates those people not coming to institutions, and pointed out that perhaps we need to be more proactive in this regard. And I believe that yes, it is clear that the situation..., people who are in this situation of severe poverty, therefore, go through very complex calvaries and difficulties and surely it costs them, they have no access, they do not have the information, they do not know where to go, and I think that we also have to be more proactive in that sense, and I hope that also with this amendment, with this proposal of law, we can articulate the mechanisms, I don't know, of coordination also with the municipalities, with the entities, so, in order to reach a higher number, because the truth is that we have already started with a small percentage of just ten_percent of these people who had access to income, but it is that we are in equally low numbers when, I insist, the number of people in poverty situation in Catalonia does not stop increasing. I insist that we had some things in the text that did not just convince us, but, well, that we can amend; above all, because it seems to us that some of the changes proposed here are to displace job reintegration. I think it is important that we do not lose sight of the fact that this guaranteed income of citizenship replaced the minimum income of insertion, which since the year 97 served to help those people who had difficulty accessing or maintaining themselves in the labour market, because they were excluded by various difficulties. And I believe, in this sense, I insist, that perhaps what is being proposed with this proposal is that this becomes a universal social benefit, and we believe that it has to be more linked to this job reintegration, because we understand that people, in the end, what they want is to work decently, to be able to have a salary. I remember – I always get my hair pointed when I do – an appearance of the comrades of Homeless Entrepreneur, who came to explain us. And one of the attendees was telling us how proud he was that he could finally pay taxes, because that meant he had a job and that he could cope with these kinds of obligations. I think that these are things that, perhaps, we are not fully aware of, but in the end people do not want help, they do not want pay, as has been said this afternoon, what they want is to work, and we also have to give those tools. And, therefore, we believe that it has to be more linked to the issue of employment. Other amendments to this proposal of law – some of the most striking, at least for our point of view – are the reduction of the age to be able to receive the aid, to reduce the amount to twenty-one years; also the reduction of the residence time, in this case to twelve months instead of twenty-four, and another aspect is also that the assumptions in which it is not necessary to meet certain requirements, such as these that I have just mentioned, are extended. I also have to say that we are a little concerned about this. Maybe because of that possible so-called effect that can be done. There have been situations where, for example, there was no compatibility with income from work, in situations of temporary work, and I think that it is also a job that we have to do during the presentation, to see how we can fit absolutely everything. And, of course, I do believe that we must be compatible with those incomes, that you are not automatically excluded, because, if not, in the end, there were situations in which, perhaps, someone rejected a temporary contract, because that then already prevented him from accessing the guaranteed income necessary to be able to survive, beyond that possible temporary work that he might have. Well, as I was saying, we think it's good that the paper is opened, that we listen to the entities. We have the experience of these last few years. We know the things that have not been done well and that still do not do well. I'm also telling you, Counselor, we need money. I insist: there have been budgets approved and there has been no increase here, and without that increase we do absolutely nothing. We have also seen in many cases..., I think that something that got the guaranteed income, one of the strengths, was that it was precisely becoming a subjective right. I mean, you, the moment you meet those requirements, you automatically have to receive this benefit. But, however, that is not happening. And we have seen cases even where people in severe poverty have had to go to court because they were not being recognized for this benefit. It is true that the Generalitat acted at that time and the benefit was granted, but I think that quite calvary already has one to go through according to what calamities as to, above, have to face a judicial process against the Generalitat. Therefore, I insist, I think we need to learn from the experience of recent years. I hope that we can achieve that consensus in the presentation. And the truth, that, therefore, eager to listen to the experts, eager to listen to the entities that work day by day and face the so grave situation of severe poverty that we are living in Catalonia. So, for our part, we want to work and put forward amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.198.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.199.0	All right, thank you very much, President. Representatives of the promoters and members of the government committee, the Honourable Councillor, Members, Members of Parliament, today we are talking about the guaranteed income of citizens, a law which was approved on July 20th of the 17th year and which this law at the time was approved unanimously by the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, a very remarkable fact that what it does is to find that guaranteed income from citizenship is one of the pillars of the welfare state that we have provided to Catalonia. It was a bet from the country to be able, therefore, to show a priority, a will that the assembly of parliamentary groups had in this Parliament. This law envisages a government commission, a government commission on guaranteed citizenship income that integrates all entities in the third sector, unions, business agents, the local world; they form part of this commission, which has as its task the follow-up of this guaranteed income, how it works and how it progresses. It is precisely in the framework of this committee that October 8th of last year was formed a working group just to analyze the functioning of guaranteed income in these five years that it carries into operation. This working group was given one year to be able to do all this work and to be able to raise the proposals, in this case, to the Government of the Generality, to the Parliament of Catalonia, to open the melo, if they get out, of the amendment of the law. Therefore, there was all the analysis work of the law itself planned and established. That said, you have to ask how we've removed the puzzle altogether. So just so, because after we talk about it, and talk about it among ourselves, talk about it with the government, talk about it among the groups as well, we have seen that there is the possibility, the way we can also work it, in this case, from the Parliament, as well as from the multi-group space, in this sense, we also have the input, in this case, from the Commission of the Government of Guaranteed Income and we can listen to everyone in order to be able to do this updating job. Why? So, obviously, the situations have changed: a law – we believe that, in this case, it is an example – that it can be self-rated, that it would have the mechanisms to be able to analyze itself and that at this point we do it this way. So, that's why we were going to remove the whole thing. In this sense, we also want you to be clear that what is to be achieved is the will of consent that has been made in this law. It was born in the consensus, and what we have to look for is that I continue in the consensus, because, as I said, it's a lot of the welfare state that we have in Catalonia and we have to get this will, this commitment, we keep it all, that it's not a bet to see who wants to offer the most benefits, which is what it wants to offer the most actions, but it's a reflected part, worked among all of us and try to find this fit. The working group, which must continue to do its work, the government commission must continue to do its work, and from here, therefore, we also want to recognize the task of the various entities in the committee. But, therefore, initiating parliamentary proceedings does not mean that this..., this work is supplanted, but all the contrary, that this must be able to continue on the part of all pleas. So, in this sense, we'll be working from all walks of life. The guaranteed income of citizenship came from the will that all the people of our country, in this sense, who are at risk of exclusion, with vulnerability, with poverty, have in this case a benefit that you allow them to live with dignity. This income, which was, therefore, as I said, approved the year 2017, already the year 2018..., therefore, the delay was not the one that was commented on, but that by the year 2018 there were almost 27,000 benefits, with more than 68,000 beneficiaries and 240_million euros expected and executed. By the year 2019, those 27,000 already pass to thirty-one, and by the year 2021 they pass to more than 51,000 benefits on behalf of the Government of the Generality, with almost 117,000 beneficiaries and more than 400_million euros of supposition. Therefore, this growth will that has occurred every year is demonstrated by the data and is demonstrated by the Government's willingness to bring forward this service, which has served as a social shield to many people in our country. In this sense, highlight the importance also of creating a subjective right, the fact that, in this case, all persons who have the right to receive the benefit. There are no waiting lists. The problem we have to see is that we don't get to everyone. There are many people who have the need, the reality to be able to benefit from the guaranteed income of citizenship, but don't ask, they don't go to social services, and here's when we really have to make a strong push to get to all the people who have the right. So let this right be for all the people that I need. And we need to analyze the reasons that can lead us to this not in this way, how difficult it may be to access the public service, which before the citizen participation began, which in this case we were not. In the march of these years, therefore, now the share of the vital minimum ingredient has also appeared to us. The vital minimum income, which, in this sense, is a benefit from the Government of the State, and from the Government of the Generality we were going to file an unconstitutional appeal at the time, because we thought it was a competition that surrounded the Government of the Generality, but this appeal was dropped by the Constitutional Court, of course. And, in this sense, what we hope is that there is the political will to be able to make a transfer of this vital minimum income. But not a transfer for the simple fact of saying manage this; the Government of the Generality does not want to be the management of the consignors without the ability to decide, without the ability to manage these consignors and decision. Therefore, what we are asking is that it is work from the conjunction of parliamentary groups that, in this case, you have the Government in the State, because actually this transposition is in this sense. Because, therefore, in this case, the guaranteed income of citizenship is a subsidiary income of the vital minimum income, and let us say that, in this sense, the government's commitment is that all the resources that are allocated to the guaranteed income and the more will continue to be allocated to this complement that should become of the vital minimum income. And why should we say what should happen? Because at this time Catalonia is the penultimate autonomous community in coverage by the vital minimum income. Only a 7,8_per_cent coverage of people possibly benefiting from the perception. And in the end we would say, and why is this happening? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And in the end I think you have a reason that is very logical: the vital minimum income is around 450_euros and the guaranteed income of citizenship is over 650_euros. Therefore, this difference also demonstrates, u, the Catalonian bet for this income, the Catalonian bet to overcome the problems it represents, and, in this case, to the Government of the State, the figures are the ones he mentioned. But, in addition, three of every four requests from the minimum vital ingredient are denied. There are more than 1,000_million that are not executed, and that, therefore, the ninety-five_percent of the people who are fighting the poor do not perceive the minimum vital ingredient. Here's where we need to work because these two make punch fit and that they can actually do it; that we don't have problems with computer systems that they don't; that there are no problems, in this case, technicians at the time of being able to do it. And this is where we have to get all folded up to work so we can make it possible, But we need to work on this reform, and that's why we've taken the challenge to the full, because we want to do a serious job, a rigorous job that, as I said, I can count on the consensus, but that we don't generate false expectations, that we try to be very aware of the reality that we have, both presuppositional and social, and try to make the two compatible. We also need to analyse, in this case, the variety of aids we have, before we can talk about a new aid to supplement the guaranteed income of citizens. We need to talk about the legal difficulties, in this case, in order to make work returns compatible with the perception of guaranteed citizenship income. We need to analyze these problems in order to see how we can deal with them, because these difficulties are the objective we need to overcome. So, on a summary scale: we have to work, we have to bet. And I want to thank, in this case, so let's also thank the council for the willingness to open up the apple of wanting to say listen to me, let's look at all the shortcomings we have, let's look at those possibilities we have, because we are aware that there are things that can go better, that can get to more people, that we can make it easier for people to have the tickets that, in these cases, they deserve and to which they have the right, because the object of all the pleas is to be able to reduce the poverty. And, therefore, by listening to all of us, making a proposal that is consumable, a proposal that encourages people to get out, that we can get individual attention plans so that they can get work, we can pull forward. But in the cases that the normality that we consider not real, what we have to do is that there is a real protection network that helps us and that, in this sense, the guaranteed income of citizenship is a complement that can, therefore, guarantee a life worthy of the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.200.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Bartomeu Compte.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.201.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise, guests and guests that you are in the gallery, the risk of being the last to speak is that, many times, many things have already been said, but I think it is important, somehow, to reinforce some of the things that have been said. It is obvious, and it has been said of many ways and before, that the passing of the law in Parliament presupposed a unanimous consensus and a clear objective of creating a useful instrument for Catalan citizenship. From here on out, the paper still holds it, and sees the practical application that needs to be made from then on. From then on, there were two changes; there was even a frustration that at the last hour and the whole government committee agreed and, on the other hand, it did not pull forward for the votes of this chamber. And we believe that in these moments, therefore, it certainly touches the reconfiguration. Well, I think it's very important about that. Obviously, there are advances – which have already been said – that we withdraw the puzzle to totality. The thought to the totality..., I think it can be explained, more than what David Saldoni, of Juntes per Catalunya, explained..., this proposal of law is presented a year ago, the month of June of 2021, and at that time we still had hope, and we had talked to some groups, that it would agitate the least vital and guaranteed input, and, then, once we had done so, so we would make a legal modification or a decree to adapt it. So it was one of the possibilities. A year ago we didn't even have the 2022 presupposition; which I remember, when it was approved 2022, which seemed, therefore, that with these expanding presuppositions we would have a period of growth and a certain economic joy. At the end of a year, there is no economic balance or... It's true that some things get better: for example, social security affiliates at these times already say they're the same as 2008; so it's good news. But you have to see what's going to happen. But, in any case, it is clear that, all this time that has been going on here, the social situation has deteriorated; that is clear. They'll explain the visits and we'll see you on the street. Therefore, in one exercise, a little, to see, to value things as they have set at the end of a year that they are present, we believe that the circumstances have varied greatly. That's why there's a point to totality, and I think it's important, so take it into account. According to my data and the report that I had prepared for this intervention, the 2022 budget allocated 400 million euros to the pool of guaranteed citizenship income; this is what gave me the report. And it is clear that it may not be enough and will therefore have to be supplemented with contingency funds. So, what do you say? That, obviously, when we have to take account of the economic provision to deal with services such as these, therefore, we have to take into account the economic impact that many of the modifications entail. And that's very important to keep in mind, because we don't think that with a quick and current change, so... we'd generate expectations that maybe they couldn't cover. Therefore, it is important that we also take into account this risk of disappointment in relation to expectations. And we fully agree that Catalonia's sufficiency income index must be increased. What happens, which obviously cannot be done at once, is clear. They're very late. Obviously it will have to be done, so, in a way and in a period, and I think it's important. In a report that I think I have..., well, "I don't think so, that I have to present this intervention, I said that a point of increase in the income index of sufficiency in Catalonia of the income of citizens would mean an addition of 25_million euros for each point. Therefore, this presupposes an effort that needs to be valued in a very clear way. We can argue, but that's what it is, huh? That's why we're making a great deal of provision for a... Pardon me, a parliamentary process, right? Therefore, I think these questions are important. In the proposal that is presented, there are obviously some things that we do not agree on, and that are proposed in terms of housing. We think he's out of focus. That's why we're going to talk more quickly. And even the whole proposal raises some demands that, in our way of seeing it, very, excessively, in our understanding, the circle of possible beneficiaries. So I think it's important that I take it into account. He told me one of the guests who was there, that the compatibility of housing aid and guaranteed income to Euskadi had already rejected it, because they understood that it was not a good solution. So, we also look at exactly what his example is and how they solved it, right? And, as we say, obviously, we think and bet on a clear question, which is the convenience of vital minimum income and guaranteed citizenship income. This was part of the investment agreement of the late Government of Spain. And one thing that has alarmed us very much is that in the bilateral committee that took place during the month of fever, it commits the parties to continue working on this issue. Therefore, there was no way to achieve it either. And that also does and plays an important role in taking the puzzle to the full. You have to make it clear, don't you? And obviously, we'd agree that... we'd agree or disagree. Other alternatives, such as universal basic income, have begun to be studied. We may not believe it, but universal basic income can give us very important information that can help us make a greater application of guaranteed income. Even if that's why it's only worth starting this pilot plan, which is not that it's over, but as a pilot plan, let's just say it, very new and with many difficulties, so it's slower than we want, but I'm sure it's not even for the information that can give us, it's going to be extraordinarily interesting, isn't it? As I said, we have a very important period of long-term crisis. The crisis, as you said, began in 2008, 2013, and it was normal that at that time one thing that had not developed for a long time, which was guaranteed income, was developed. So it's clear. Now we're going to have the same social security affiliates, and that means that you'd have to take pressure, too, a little bit, on guaranteed income, in the sense that if you work, then you can have some tickets and also, somehow, we should, to be able to do a more thoughtful debate on this issue, and I think it's very important. And I think... about something that's been said here, that I think that... that I've learned a lot about it and I think that it's been answered in some way: there are no illegal people in the world, there are people in an irregular administrative situation. And look, a diary, which is not exactly very philocommunist, like La Vanguardia, today there is an article by a person who had set up a deputy director and said: "If the people who have come to Europe in the last twenty-five years at a time, Europe would have an impressive problem. So, even if it's out of respect for what they're bringing in, because they're people and they're helping us and getting involved in pushing our society forward, the respect they deserve is total, and all of them. Now, we say: "The guaranteed income of the citizenry should have greater coverage. Listen, we don't put the beam on anyone. Probably what we have to do is look for mechanisms so that people can come, that they are more informed. A solution could be, in a way, to reduce certain information that the Administration already has, to play with digitization and, obviously, there will be the digital arrow, which will also play a game, an important problem in this sense. What's up? So we're looking for follow-up mechanisms for people who need this income. Therefore, I think it is very important that we take this issue into account. So let's go ahead. I mean, for the end of the day, right? With this proposal for law and our withdrawal from the debate, as we have said, we have the courage to join and support the parliamentary procedure and, above all, to seek consensus, initial unanimity, which we see that, unfortunately, for interventions that have taken place today, this late, we will not have it, but the rest of the parliamentary groups that are going to join and seek solutions to the Catalan society are sure to do a great and very good job. And from here, then, let's start with parliamentary processing; let's try to speed up the parliamentary procedure to what is possible; let's ask, therefore, that the government committee and the working group do the report as quickly as possible, and from here, then, let's move forward. In short, from the Republican Left of Catalonia we commit ourselves to three basic questions: the objective of updating the guaranteed income of citizenship from the consensus and, if possible, from unanimity and from the seny, in order to extend coverage to all people who can enjoy it and, therefore, can enter into this coverage, and match its amount, as far as possible, to the real needs of all people, starting, as we say, to try to update the index of income of sufficiency as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.202.0	All right. So the debate is over and since there are no items in totality, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposal for Law amending Law 20/2009, for prevention and environmental control of activities, for the regulation of industrial cooking activity linked to the distance sale of prepared dishes (debate of totality)]] [[202-00017/13]] And let's move to the fifth point of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the proposal of law amending Law 20/2009, of prevention and environmental control of activities for the regulation of industrial cooking activity linked to the sale at disposal of prepared dishes. This initiative has been presented for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group to move forward and, therefore, to present it has the word, first of all, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.203.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members of Parliament, the bill my group is proposing today before the House pursues a relatively simple purpose of understanding, that it is to make compatible a new economic activity, a new model of negotiations, with environmental quality and quality of life in our barrels and cities. They must be connoisseurs and connoisseurs, of course, the deputies and deputies, of this new model of business that we are talking about: we are talking about what is popularly known as "ghost care" or "macro care". The development of services that are provided through plataforms or applications, that add the offer to serve food and drink and other products at home, has grown greatly, has grown enormously in recent years; especially with the pandemic and confinements has experienced an authentic boom. And, therefore, there has been a transformation of a sector, which is economically recovering in the country, with models that, therefore, have some negative externalities, right? That is to say, we know – everyone knows it – the typical establishments, usually small shops, to eat prepared that, let's say, are open to the public; the people go there, buy, take me home and, with minimal preparation, therefore, have the food. Also everyone knows the services that offer the restoration, that also offer the food at home, sometimes with distributors close to them or, growing up, also through these applications and placards. But there has been a new way, which is that of those franchises, chains, that before they had establishments open to the public and that now, let's say, they cook in establishments that are not open to the public and that cannot consume the products that are cooked there. And, besides, obviously, these franchises and these chains, so, there have been commercial brands that have developed, so to speak, natively around these ghost wedges, which, as we say, are not open to the public and do not allow the consumption of the dishes in the proper establishment. Therefore, this reality is more and more present each time. It is quite common in this business model that these wedges are not established on the part of a brand, a chain, but are shared among various, and acquire truly important dimensions. That is to say, we are talking about almost industrial or industrial activity, of very large professional companies, let us say, with many production lines, in which there are many different dishes and products and in which, obviously, there is a huge concentration of people, to then distribute these orders, these products that people demand basically through these applications, while there can be other ways of access – telematics, telephones, etcetera – to make these orders. This, when it's produced in a residential environment, when it's produced in a environment... let's say, in a consolidated bar, with its small trade, sometimes with streets that are not large enough or so alone to accommodate all the distributors and distributors that are waiting to, let's say, transport the commands, produce effects, produce different kinds of effects, huh? And maybe I put the good before the date, but someone could find – I don't know if in the subsequent interventions will be the case – that it may be exaggerated to make a legislative change at the level of Catalonia to ask that, in certain circumstances, this type of activity requires an environmental demand – could find it exaggerated. But the truth is, I repeat, when this business model is normally installed, let's say, with a lot of surface, with a lot of activity, with a lot of extended hours– even sometimes with uninterrupted times– and it generates a lot of associated mobility, generates a lot of use in public space, and also generates smoke, smell, and soroll problems. And, obviously, so with such a high concentration of activity, let's say, industrial cooking for so many hours, so it also produces an increase in risks, along with an important generation of residues that the environment is not always prepared to manage. Therefore, until Law 20/2009, on the prevention and environmental control of activities, provides as an object, in its first article, that the law aims to establish a system of administrative intervention of activities with an environmental impact in which the environment and people are taken into account, and taking into account that between the purposes proclaimed by Article 2 of the same law it is possible to achieve a higher level of protection of persons and the environment in conjunction to ensure the quality of life, we believe that it is necessary to modify this law by allowing two things to be done in a very simple way– for this reason, in the context of, among other things, a single-reading procedure–: first, we believe that it is necessary between the purposes of the new environmental law to ensure that the environmental law is implemented, in the context of the new practice of environmental law, that it is necessary to ensure that the environmental law is complied with. All these three features or circumstances at once, huh? Therefore, those activities that did not gather these three characteristics at the time would not be required by this environmental law. And, in any case, obviously there could be other instruments to act, but it would always be a posteriori. That's why we think it's important to have public administrations, to have a pool of public power to act a priori, before this activity starts to work, when it can produce, when there's a risk that it can produce in a residential environment or very close to a residential environment, generating all these negative externalities that actually affect environmental quality, quality of life, which is precisely the purpose of this law to protect. So I don't want to go any further. I believe it is clear that the purpose of which we ask the chamber, of this legislative change that we propose, is to protect the veins and veins and barrels of our cities and cities, and we do not even consider the implications, let us say, workers, social, of this model that is used enough of what is known as the giant economy. We are not going to make any further assessment, which we believe correspond to other areas of the political debate, and, possibly, in some cases, in some competitions with other chambers, which have, of course, already made an important part of the work or are in the process of debating these issues. We have to celebrate... I do not want to go to the spokesman of the groups that support the Government, but as we have been aware that the message has been withdrawn to the totality that the groups of Junts and Esquerra Republicana had raised, the Socialist Group wants to celebrate it and to thank, too, the groups that support the Government, because we think that the doubts that each group can have about, let us say, the adjustment of the criteria that in this proposal for the law are established, so we can resolve them, of course, with the debate that we will have before their final approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.204.0	Thank you very much. Then again, and as soon as, in fact, the debate has withdrawn to the totality that the Juntes groups had presented for Catalonia and the Republican Left, let us turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to express their position. Tea, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari VOX, the deputy Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.205.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies. "The law must be like death, which does not exempt anyone. "The useless laws weaken the necessary ones. Two Montesquieu phrases that came to my mind when I studied this bill to amend Law 20/2009, of 4 December, on environmental prevention and control of activities, which is presented to us today by the PSC. We are faced with an unregulated new activity – therefore, without law – that requires a useful regulation that does not weaken the existing ones. The aim of this amendment is to regulate in a more intense and specific way a new business model already existing in our cities, the so-called ghost kitchens. They plan to intensify the regulation of these kitchens, making them subject to an environmental control license, which, in turn, obliges different commercial activities, including the one discussed in this plenary, to comply with the municipal urban approach. In other words, the implicit objective of this proposal is nothing other than to limit the supply of this business. Let's see, ghost kitchens represent a new business model that has been able to take advantage of restrictions and new consumption habits derived from the covid-19 pandemic. The idea is the elimination of intermediaries in the catering market and the offer of establishments that work behind closed doors in order to serve orders only through digital platforms. We are faced with a business model that does not fully enter into the canons of traditional restoration or those of the food industry. This commercial approach can provide many benefits and positive aspects. For example, it allows many companies to expand the market available for their business, increasing the number of consumers and creating virtual brands without fixed costs, such as renting a place or the salaries of waiters. However, it is undeniable that they also bring with them many challenges, risks and drawbacks. Potentially, the negative externalities of this business can be of different types. First, in social matters. This business model can reinforce certain consumption habits and behaviors of dubious cultural benefit. The loss of direct contact in the restoration and strengthening of the tendency to reduce social and community interaction are negative factors for the correct socio-cultural development of society. Second, so-called ghost kitchens can have an effect that expels, damages the market share, the economy of trade and the face, local and proximity restoration. And thirdly, the nuisances to neighbours, related to smells, noises and good neighbourliness, which require a rapid response by the competent administrations. Well, in fact, this bill has a fund that transcends this business model and that goes to the heart of the debate about the innovative technological advances that we are witnessing in the first half of the 21st century. It is indisputable to note that the process of business innovation leaves many businesses obsolete, while providing business and work opportunities to new demands of society. This business innovation creates a conflict between the old and the new, between change or permanence. From VOX we are convinced that, in the face of the changes, the principle of prudence, which is fully applicable in this case, must be applied. We do not intend to flee from the transformations, variations and alterations that take place in society, but to order progress and change, in such a way that they benefit the political community as a whole. To do that, the socio-economic changes that technology brings with it must be exposed to social and political scrutiny. We must balance supposed economic and productive benefits derived from free entrepreneurship with cultural challenges and risks, and establish criteria for regulating economic activity that combine elements of efficiency and productivity with socio-cultural and moral issues. In this case, the regulation proposed to us by the Socialist Party, and especially the compliance with municipal urban planning regulations, can be a lever to start the processes of creating an appropriate legislative order to take advantage of the benefits of these kitchens, while mitigating the negative externalities mentioned in the first part of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.206.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.207.0	Well, good afternoon. This proposal of law up here in Parliament, in fact, thanks also to the venerable struggle of the veins of the district of Corts and Sant Martí de Barcelona, which were more than a year of mobilizations in which, with their struggle, what they did was alert of the construction of nine ghost women in the capital, in Barcelona. It means that, in the case of the Courts, the project counted on the knowledge of the district governor, with the knowledge of the assembly, the governor of the district of the Courts, which is of the Socialist Party that today carries this proposal of law. Also a few days ago, a couple of weeks ago, on June 15th, the phantom macrocuine's fireplace, illegally built, was falling apart, even though it is still on its way to resolving its contents against the assembly. This was a bit of a previa to put the context in which this law proposal came up. But we're a little bit of a ghost whore. It's been discussed, but the idea of eating to endur is not new. Many restaurants have seen, in this option, a sorting option to complement the type of service and optimize their business model. Eating to end, therefore, does not generate any fear in the scheme of society in which we live. On the other hand, dark kitchens, the expression with which they are originally known, or ghost whores, constitute a sabotage, in our opinion, socioeconomic. The spectral, dark and disheartened view of his etymology is eloquent enough: ghost, dark. A ghost kitchen is a space where they accumulate, compartmentalized, small independent kitchens from which false autonomes prepare to eat to be distributed for false autonomes: labor rights as they suffer, we might say, as we speak of cooking. Digital Platforms manage the space, the mobile application of which is done the commands and substance data with the use of the mobile application. Let's say they enter the sector of the scales into the sector. The object of their interest is not to earn a living satisfying the diners; it is the dispute for the sector itself, the fictitiousness of the traditional restoration and the consecration of a new economic model that continues to be the platform economy, which we know as the platform economy. In Barcelona it was not new, now a year ago or a couple of years ago, the theme of the ghost cousins; indeed, the first or most veteran that could be considered as the ghost cook in Barcelona was also located in the Corts and it was born the year 2016 as the gastronomic incubator for entrepreneurs, but since 2018 also acull 11 women registered in Glovo. It did not generate sound, neither environmental nor media, with little stimulating results to the eyes of its owners, as at the very least in the short term. It is the year 2020 that, with the outbreak of the pandemic, is giving the conditions to scale that first season. The suspension of phonental rights and the deployment of social control measures were the necessary accomplice of the opportunists to turn digital plataforms. Thus, the catering sector, especially restaurants, were forced to close or adapt to the new consumption habit: charge the menu by means of a mobile application. With the confinement and his short hours we stopped going out to eat or we stopped going out to eat to get us to bring the bed home. And there's still a lot of that. And here's where Glovo and Deliveroo sucked in and out: digital reference plataforms operating in the sector with this logic, before the pandemic, have understood the effects of the control of mobility, of the limit of outcrops and of the time restrictions that there were, and they were taking advantage of it. It is not by chance that in the times marked for the coronavirus we find them, therefore, to return the ghost wedges, as a way of doing or maximizing their benefit. They have set themselves an objective: to seize the market. The image of an industrial kitchen with riders all the time, suppliers coming and going, smoke, soroll, mobility problems, loss of proximity trade, competition of the whole, etcetera, has been consolidated in many barrels. But it was finally the venous pressure, as I said, a little more, that forced the intervention of the district technical services and paralyzed the projects that were there, and that the Barcelona Assembly, in this case, began a minimum of regulation. But, as I said, the problem of funds is another: it's the platform economy. And that's what we think we need to address beyond this legislation. The cycle of capital has three phases: reversal, production and realization. And we'll set an example that I gave to the ghost whores as well. Let us take the example of the production of Hamburgers. A group of investors buys, rents a place, buys machinery, ingredients and logs workers. He's doing the publicity. That's what I'm saying, reverse. Phase one. Then there's the production, the production of the Hamburger. That's where the kitchen people are exploited and where the jails are used. That's to say, it fades away much less than it actually does, and here's a benefit. The group of capitalists, the investor group is justified by the fact that, of course, they have invested. But even though the workers stayed in the grocery store, they were working a hundred years in the grocery store, at the end of a hundred years, the nets of the investors' owners would follow the masters of the restaurant. This is the production phase, which is when the work of the workers, dedicated to transforming the ingredients and serving the dishes, increases the value of the final product compared to the initial components. As most important is the transformation of any matter into a process and more incorporated work has more value. The second phase was reality... production, forgiveness. The third phase is when we pay the embourgess and the capital is realized. I mean, the investor comes back with money. The success or failure of a trade depends on the speed with which this cycle, the reversal cycle, production and realization is carried out. If you come in a few burgers, the ingredients will go bad, the decoration is old and every time people enter the restaurant. Therefore, the objective of the owners and all investors is to sell as much as possible in the shortest possible time. And here's where advertising comes in and a barrier between expanding the business and making even more advertising, which is what Glovo and Deliveroo do. Businesses like Glovo and Deliveroo offer a bigger advertising platform to the business by mediating the client's mobile application, which announces to a huge public that a restaurant could never reach for its own media. More than that, they drag the house-cookers, the platter or the street, part of the restaurant. So, they grow the number of customers that can attend to this hamburger per hour. So, break the limits of the tables and falls and, besides, you don't need chamberlains. Therefore, it allows the owner of the hamburger to increase the extra value of the cooking staff, as well as that, working the same hours, they will produce more hamburgers paying the same. We've already seen restaurants or, better said, caterers that only serve food to take away. The latest development of this platform economy, of all of this logic, are the ghost whores we are talking about today: maximizing the production of Hamburgers. And we can't shut them off from all this logic that we talk about the cycle and how they maximize the benefits and, therefore, they are precaritating, too, the working conditions of the workers, because with the same hours they are forced to produce the same. In conclusion, therefore, neither food nor home service has any importance for these companies, because what counts, as far as it really matters, is to manage the space from which it is cooked, the mobile application from which it is made, to render the sub-data with the use of the mobile application and to seize the market to implement a monopoly. Therefore, in our view, any legislative proposal resolutely against the ghost care can avoid this reality; a reality that we are already seeing as tempting us over the territory, which are the ghost supermarkets. So... that's a topic that I can also address. That's why we say: "Well, this proposal of the law, but let us approach the debate in all its depth and complexity. Because this type of business that exploits workers, that doesn't take into account the environment, that doesn't take into account the environment and that doesn't generate community have come to stay if we don't face it, if we don't fight the logic behind this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.208.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.209.0	Thank you very much, Companion Pedret. Many thanks for presenting this initiative. I think we'll have time to go deeper. Henri Lefebvre, the French urbanist and socialist, has long been theorizing the right to the city in a wake that is certainly still very strong today, to frame a conflict that is already experienced by the industrial and post-industrial cities of the 20th century and that today we are certainly living with an accelerated and intense intensity. The conflict in the assault of the cities to make the cities mercantile, to turn them into pure merchandise in front of the rights of the citizens, of the veins and the veins, to build cities to live there, and to live together. And, therefore, a city produced to produce and to consume a city produced to live there and to bring social life to the community and, therefore, to be citizens and to humanize our cities. Today we see many expressions of this conflict. You have your piss can be practically anything you imagine. It can be a touristic location. I can be a ghost stove. I can be a playwright. It could be a warehouse. I can be a ghost supermarket. It could be a workshop. It can be practically everything you imagine. But the price for this is that your piss can no longer be your home. It's that he has the right to live in the city. And this is a conflict that we live in the great cities of this country, but that we begin to live in the small and medium-sized towns of this country and in much of rural Catalonia, the most touristized. And, therefore, a conflict that subordinates the cities to the creation of wealth and wealth to the people who did not see the city and do not want the city to live there. I believe that this situation should be reflected especially on a question, which is what the utopias that were built in the 20th century, on the advance of technology and on social progress have remained. I remember, if I didn't remember correctly, Xavier Ferràs, in an article in La Vanguardia, a conference that Keynes made, that was said "The economic possibilities of our nets and that he basically said: with the accumulation of capital that we live and with the advent of the technology that we live, in a hundred years we have solved the main problem of humanity, that is the economic subsistence. It is true that the model of capitalist production, the capitalist society, continues to generate constantly needed, but that at least those that we can recognize as basic – housing, clothing, education, sanitation, food – these in a hundred years have been able to solve, because we produce like at least eight or two times more than we produced in the thirties. And the truth is, we produce a lot more than in the thirties. And that Professor Keynes was right about that. But we have not been able to solve the basic needs, despite this continuous technological disruption and the continuous accumulation of wealth in which we live. Because, in the end, what we are proposing is this: in a society where every time there are more forms of wealth accumulation, each time there are more basic needs without covering, as is housing, as is the possibility of living and living in our cities. And what we are living with this eruption, with this disruption of startups, of new business models, of the misnamed "collaborative economy" is precisely technology, technology, to the service of depossession and to the service of inequality without faith in our societies. We want cities where taxi drivers compete against all citizens who can download an application and say that they are Uber or Cabify drivers. We want to destroy all the fabric of the oci, of restoration, of the inn that has our cities because it competes against all the citizens that can have a cooking at home, or against the macrocuines, built normally by means of reversal that competes without respecting neither the labor costs nor the environmental regulations nor the veins that suppose this activity, and that the distribution companies that pay their workers the wages and social security compete against false autonomies that divide every day to our cities on bicycle the products of our city, and, of course, that the small trades compete against Amazon, against the next startup that occurs. And that's the big contradiction we're living in. Because either they have to compete or they have to pay quota to the digital oligopolis that they are generating in order to distribute and to become a little more than franchises of these great oligopolises. And, therefore, this conflict marks a very obvious direction for us, that is that the city that built the city council, living there, producing there, working it, which produces all productive, commercial, but also social, venal and community relations to our cities, all these relationships that we have built and that in the day" city, all, can be challenged for mercantilization regardless of our lives and our cities. And this is the source conflict that we are living from the eruption of startups and the misnamed "collaborative economy." And he said before, but what is left of these utopias, of all this technology that is serving social progress and serving, therefore, to improve the quality of life of the great people? How do all these empty promises that we've been hearing for years fit in front of all the false promises of wealth? "No, the tourist masseuse will bring wealth. « No, the touristic floors will carry rich. "No, Uber and Cabify will bring wealth. What's left of all these utopias when we see the city and society that we're building, plagued with inequalities, and where technology doesn't just play a neutral role, but empowers the inequalities and dispossession of most of our citizens? What's left of life for the citizens? Josep Vicente Boira wrote an article to La Vanguardia about this question and said that the question is not whether to build ghost care, that the question is that ghost cities are being built. The one who has been named here many times "city dormitory, but we also challenge the ability to remain dormitory, cities without citizen life and cities without public life where all are subject to commercial relations. And, therefore, it is from this perspective – and I have taken advantage of the fact that we have two minutes – from which we want to make the problem of ghost care a reality. We find ourselves at a time when it is possible to open and we have seen... in Barcelona there is a moratorium, but we have seen, above all, in cities with Madrid, this conflict in a much more radical and much more disruptive way about the life of our lives. Macros that do not comply with environmental regulations, that sometimes have neither activity nor law and, therefore, are not..., do not only pay tax on economic activities, but that there can be no intervention in the field of work – the company of the CUP commented on it –, many times working its workers as false autonomies, or there are no controls of food safety, because they are in the shade, and where there is obviously no urban regulation or venous regulation, and therefore we can find cases such as we have seen in some bars in Madrid, on, of course – with Prosperità –, it has opened under a block of floors, in which it was previously a supermarket, thirty-four times the time we saw it in some bars in Madrid, on, from above all – with Prosperità –, it has opened up under a block of floors, in which it was previously a supermarket, on the eve of the day when it forms a macro exit into the environment, so that it is similar to the beginning of the day. And I think that because of that, and because these models are hybridized with other models that are precaritating, as the CUP company – the riders, the distribution of false autonomes – has commented before, we must be radically opposed to this offer of city and do – and that is what we share with the PSC, and we believe that, surely, if we work on this, we can enrich this proposal of law –..., as at least, two elements that are of fundamental importance to us. The democratic planning of cities is about the commercial offer and the cities converted into goods and, therefore, that all economic activity must be subject to urban planning of cities and to standards of living, especially in areas destined for life. And, according to them, the rest of the regulations – the environment, the labor and the prosecutors – must be above the commercialization of our cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.210.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.211.0	MPs, MPs, the truth is that I'm surprised how a bill with two articles and two sentences generates these speeches that I don't know if Mr Pedret is prepared to generate, about the..., we've almost had a speech proper to political science, about the model of cities. As a geographer, I really like to talk about the evolution of cities and how they have changed over time, from the Neolithic. In fact, if you want we can talk about it and comment..., talk about whether there were these problems in the neolithic, when changes in population movement, etc.. But we have a reality, and that is that a proposal for a law has been brought here that is unnecessary for us, and we want to comment on it, although we will not need to vote, because obviously – obviously – the amendment to the whole has been withdrawn at the last moment. We have two withdrawals at the last moment of the amendment to the whole, in the previous proposal for a law and in this one. I don't know, they're also suspicious, these moves back that the government is doing this afternoon, but we won't need to stand by by voting this bill. Why do we say it is unnecessary? Because we believe there are already instruments. There are instruments in local governments and in local planning to respond to these realities that we believe that, obviously, when it comes to ghosts..., that is, even the very exposition of motives already explains it: dark kitchens or ghost kitchens already suggest that they are spaces, at least..., I don't know if illegal, yes irregular. Obviously they have to be ordered. And we, as liberals, have always wanted the management and regulation of activities, but trying to take an activity and subject it to all a mockery, almost criminalizing the, as I have heard at times here..., born of a reality, that in the end the human being I think tends to do it, adapts to the circumstances, to the most adverse ones, as was the pandemic, and from there gets a business initiative that in many times, in many cases, I think is positive and that we have to support, right? We believe that it is unnecessary because we do not see that the best way to tackle this reality is this, because in the end we modify a law and equate this activity with activities..., that this has not been read, but in annex 2, which is the one that modifies this law, is equated with activities such as slaughterhouses that have a capacity to produce channels of up to fifty tonnes per day and more than two tonnes per day. Are we matching the activity of a catering – because in the end we can say that it is an evolution of an activity that already existed, but in the end this is it – with a slaughterhouse? Can we match that? Is it really the same? And what we're doing in this law is matching what, we're putting what as a..., within this annex, as another activity; for example, with industrial facilities to make vegetable fats and oils, production that is toxic, that does have a very deep and very adverse environmental impact and that we consider that..., to which this environmental law should apply. But we consider that this activity that is defended and that has expanded in many cities does not have it. Because in the end – and I think it has been commented here – the will of this law is that it does not exist, that it does not exist – that it does not exist. Because yes... I know that Mr Pedret has brought it because there are a number of problems in Barcelona city, especially. That sometimes there is that..., since we talk, that little..., that contrast between what is Barcelona city and the metropolitan area. I, who am from a city in the metropolitan area, large, as is Sabadell, which does not have the same realities, possibly, that Barcelona has city..., we find that if this law were implemented should disappear almost any activity that is related to the service through applications of what is called « collaborative economy, which I believe is well exposed in my city. Because basically what is being said is that this activity has to go to an industrial polygon that is equal to twenty_minutes, or fifteen_minutes, or ten_minutes from the client, or it moves away from the client and, therefore, will have no sense that that activity exists. Because, in the end, the client..., here I'm getting too liberal, but just like the client wants to compete, that is, to be answered, that this request can soon arrive at his home. And obviously, then, he'll choose. And you'll choose to take it or go down to the bar all your life, possibly – just like that is the will they have – and not use those tools. In the end, we believe that there are other solutions for what is proposed here; that for progress, for the development of economic activities of this type and business, we do not understand why this proposal for a law is being proposed. But it doesn't matter a bit, because there is no amendment to the whole, it has withdrawn and, therefore, I understand that they will try to improve..., right? I don't know if it's any better, this text. I don't know, but I don't know. It's hard. They will try to do, continue to do damage, many times, to our business fabric with more and more regulations than they do to block, that the only thing they do is to create barriers and that they are far removed from that reality; that, many times, when we talk from the business realms or in commissions like that of enterprise..., which is that of the one window, that of reducing bureaucratic barriers, all these concepts that have been heard for years in this Parliament. But when I see laws like this, I say: "We talk about that, but then what we do is quite the opposite, is to generate precisely more and more obstacles. I think it's a mistake. Not only will we oppose this law when it comes to its development..., unless it changes a lot, that maybe it can change, that we always trust in it. And I'm not going to stretch myself any longer. Thank you, President, and thank you, Member. Anyway, thanks to Congressman Pedret for opening a high-level debate, let's say, political, apparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.212.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, will speak to the MP Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.213.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, the pandemic has changed our habits in all spheres, generated some costumes that we didn't have before and that have now consolidated with society's doing. Despite living with the pandemic, this has taught us new ways of living and working. It has also brought us the proliferation of businesses that before had not had such an impact on people's lives. One of these deals, precisely, the sale away of prepared dishes. During the months of the pandemic, this was one of the most demanding negotiations, and this meant that, taking advantage of this window of opportunity, many businesses and people needed to complete these activities. Now, however, we understand that we need to order and try to regulate everything that may be linked to these businesses, also taking into account the people that are directly affected and respecting that all services are legally adequate, but also at the health and respect level with the rest of the veins and the veins. There may be, however, questions which are not the competence of the department. We in Parliament must legislate, but we cannot ask the department to guarantee something that is municipal competence, such as ensuring that activities complement urban planning. This issue is one of the many municipal powers: to hold activity claims that comply with municipal urban planning, according to preceptive reports, if they leak, and to age for their execution to follow suit; and to age to detect those illegal activities that are kept from their municipality. The proposal to add a new scoca heading under heading 562 of the Law 18/2020, to facilitate economic activity, since this provides for establishments to provide prepared meals, which includes commercial activities without consumption at the establishment. Now, exposed all this, we are aware of the problems that have generated, mainly in the city of Barcelona, dark kitchens. We know that the lives of these companies have endured bad smells, blows and constant transport of distributors, which are concentrated around these spaces. We must ensure that everyone can work in decent conditions and that we can live in peace and quiet. We need to study well what would be the contribution that could be hard in the long run, from the Parliament of Catalonia, to regulate these questions without having a negative impact on the parts involved. We need to preserve the proximity business and also give everyone options to finish their business, because when the sun comes up for everyone. They will allow me to do incis in Barcelona, a city mainly affected by these ghost whores. The Barcelona City Council, better or worse, went through a toughening of the inn conditions at the end of a negotiation of these conditions in the city. The Junts Municipal Group for Barcelona submitted allegations to improve this municipal proposal, taking into account that the regulations have to study well the characteristics of the activity, the location and the good coexistence of the roads. As Barcelona's companies say, we must not confuse regular with banning or ordering expulsion. Balance must be found in order to generate economic activity and ensure the rest of the veins, without resorting to generalised restrictive policies that do not take into account the specific characteristics of each case. Together we travel to Catalonia for people and also for businesses, for families and also for occupation. We want economic dynamism, we want jobs and we want all people to have the security and peace they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.214.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.215.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs... Well, according to the memory of the preliminary draft law that the Department of Enterprise and Work is realizing and with data from the General Directorate of Commerce, electronic commerce has grown in a remarkable way at world level and at our home. According to these data, from November 2018 to March 2020_has increased to a rate of an annual disset_per_cent, an increase that is due to the period of pandemic in confinement and..., pandemic, as I said, and that surely if we look at the data with the rest of 2020 and 2021, these percentages are still greater. According to data from the same department, in the Source of Action, it is estimated that currently there are 79 million online purchases in Catalonia, of which an eighty-four per cent is made at home, is delivered at home; only a thirteen per cent in some way of pickup point. This represents, it is calculated, around 66_million moves for delivery to home, of which an eleven_per_cent require a _second visit. The online trade, which initially was limited to the purchase of generic products, has now experienced an explosion in the area of prepared meals, the weekly purchase and restoration. In this type of activity, the food prepared, to take away, in fact, as has been said before for other Members, is not new either to Catalonia or to our city. In places like Ciutat Vella, around the Boqueria market or Santa Caterina, there are low plants where you eat to take away. The problem is that what was so far a small space has now made a leap of scale and we find ourselves with projects in phantom supermarkets or, what is best known, with dark kitchens or phantom whores. Large-scale installations that seek to optimize the space, concentrate activity and reach the end customer more easily and quickly. And that's why they're looking for large industrial and local buildings that are located in residential plots adjacent to the habitats. We could say that ghost care is the traditional restoration that Amazon has meant to the proximity trade. Some activities that, if it is true, and the result of the change in consumption habits, have come to stay, need regulation, because these impacts on the city and do so in many areas: the environment, that of the public street, the mobility, the model of proximity trade or the right to rest of the veins, among others. And in Barcelona, we know this from the first hand. District of the Courts, in September 2020: on the eve of my district they informed us that, on the road Felipe de Paz number 10, there were some works that were raising a large fireplace and transforming a very large place. At that time, the concept of macrocuine was relatively new. Finally we know that we were planning to build, on a surface of nine hundred_metres_squares, a total of forty wedges; what you have carried and meant the biggest macrocuine in all of Barcelona, with difficult problems of mobility, blows and smokes. These forty women, as I said, were the largest macro-cuine, and it began to act when the venous entities and the veins were mobilized to create the Affected Macrococines platform of Les Corts. District of Sant Martí. About the month of generation of 2021 we know, through the venous mobilization Neighbors Affected Cooking Ghost, that there is a project of the company Cooklane to the street Puigcerdà, 204, of Sant Martí, to build a macrocuina ghost. A project of 565_metres_squares, also in an interior of the island – a place, therefore, of rest – behind the market of Sant Martí, where there were plans between twenty and thirty wedges, and the windows and balconies of the veins donated directly to it. These are examples that have allowed the phenomenon and, above all, negative externalities and the urgent need for regulation to be visible. We need, Mr Pedret, these macro-projects, the organization and the venous mobilization and the work of the Municipal Group of the Republican Left in Barcelona because the assembly and the council and the municipal government reacts without and is willing to act. In these examples of deorbited dimensions, in the middle of urban, residential and located in peaceful and resting places, it is easy to understand who are the negative externalities in its most immediate environment: blows and smokes, because it is a non-stop activity, or also the occupation of the public street with the occupation by distributors and distributors. But the regulation, the non-regulation of this activity, also has an impact at the level of the city and trade model, because it is an activity that is characteristic of labor precariousness, for false autonomies, because with the increase of the distribution also increases the mobility, the occupation of the public street, the road insecurity and the emissions derived from this mobility; because an increase out of orbit of this activity, out of control of this activity, has often accompanied a negative impact on the proximity trade, that it cannot compete with the same tools; or that in the case of the restoration it is host of these platforms that, while at the same time the distribution of this activity is done at the same time. For all this we defend a city that puts its citizens and citizens, the barcelons and the barcelons at the center. And we're happy that, despite being opposed, not giving up on it, we're just working and working to get it. And for that, fifteen days ago we were at the Plaça Sant Jaume with the venom against the Soroll and next to the twenty venom entities they represent, defending the right to rest from the barcelons and barcelons. And today we are also happy to explain that we have also been at your side to get the city government to come to regulate the ghost care sector and its distribution. Because defending a night-night model that doesn't allow you to rest your veins and veins, and defending a city where there's a free bar for these activities that we're talking about today, for us it's not an option. We believe in a city that puts people at the center, that defends a rational and sustainable mobility, and a trading model that defends restorers and restorers and proximity trade. For this we need regulation; regulation in the local area and regulation in the national area. In the local area we agreed that from the venerable entities, and with the support of Esquerra, we managed to pull out the city's government team. Probably late and watering the little ones, as always, but I'd like to focus on that good one: that I think it's a good deal. It is a good agreement because it prevents the macrocuines of the Corts and Sant Martí, because it conditions the location of nine ghost women in industrial soils in a radius of four hundred meters and in avenues of twenty-five meters wide, also banning the city from ghost supermarkets and forcing the empowerment of space for the distributor and distributor. And in the national sphere we also need a standard_mark. And we congratulate ourselves here that, unlike the joint venture, the Department of Enterprise and Work, with a few months of government, has put a thread in the needle and is in the process of the preliminary draft of the law that will have to regular times of distribution of goods, establish criteria in the location of warehouses, establish criteria also medium-environmental in the department, respect both the emissions of vehicles as at the point of distribution, establish criteria to avoid over-occupancy of the public road or, among others, promote the points of return in the works at home. All this regulation, at least at the city level – and now we will have the opportunity to do so here in Parliament too – we have worked with you, with the PSC and with the commons in the assembly. And now it's working in the generality and, as we haven't presented the whole thing, we'll have an opportunity to do it here in Parliament as well. Honestly, I have to tell you that we haven't just heard what the purpose of the law you're sending us is. We believe – and I believe it, because the previous one and to which I will refer also I carried it – that it is a piece. You recorded it in July of the past year, at a time when there was no agreement at the meeting, and we believe that you respond more to the need to cover up the shames because you were not working at the meeting, as was also the case with the law..., the modification of the emblematic trades, that, as this one, I already predict it will obviously be a small step and an advent, but it will be so small that we don't know if we have noticed it. In summary, and as I said to the beginning, we have to assume that electronic commerce has come to stay, and that it has, as virtually as possible, in the final process of binding the product, an inevitable physical dimension with negative externalities that are linked to new models of mobility, storage, production, logistics, without forgetting other questions such as labor rights and consumer rights. Therefore, it needs, as I said, regulation; regulation that we have managed to do at the assembly. So much good here now we can finish it too. And although we don't know if what we're up to today will do much – we think we didn't sooner – as I said, we're never going to work for a country and city model that we believe in, and that's why we've removed the puzzle to the full and we've made it easy for it to be processed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-29-3302.216.0	Thank you very much. So the debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this initiative can continue its processing. And we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you.
