ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Interview with the Government on audiovisual production in Catalan]] [[300-00123/13]] And we do so on the agenda of the day, the question to the Government on audiovisual production in Catalan, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. She has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... Alcarrás, a film by director Carla Simón, set in this town of Lleida and shot in català, has become the first film in the Spanish State, in thirty-nine years, to win the Os d'Or at the prestigious Berlin Film Festival. These days – in fact, last day – we also had another example of audiovisual success, cinematographic success, with six current days, from the Neus Ballús, to the Gaudí awards. These are two examples of the audiovisual production we have at home. And it is precisely with the will to preserve the potential of cinematographic creation from linguistic and cultural diversity that the European Commission has approved the Audiovisual Communication Directive that just now the Spanish State is transposing with a logic, unfortunately, much different from the origin of this directive. The Government of the State, with the PSOE and the United Nations We can to the fore, has promoted a law much extended, as we say, from the defense of this diversity, with a much more mercantile look, placing the emphasis on favoring the interests of the great plataforms, basically with the objective that it settles in Madrid – to Three Cantos, concretely. In this context, however, we understand that Alcarra's success helps us to overcome some of the toughest arguments of this Spanish nationalism, that many times is being studied in the market logic, and also helps us to continue betting on audiovisual production in our language, and not just that, right? , not only in our language, but also with our eyes. I am well aware that what would warm us up to defend with all the tools and all the fullness our language would be to have a good state, we cannot wait. We cannot give up continuing to work to increase the social use of our language, a fact that 2022 indestriably passes for a clear bet for the audiovisual in Catalan language. That is why you yourself, as the Culture Advisor, have on various occasions demonstrated that, in a world every time more globalized and digitalized, the audiovisual is one of the main axes of the consultancy, and that the financing of the Catalan cinema in the original version is one of the priorities of the department that you encapsulate. From the Republican Left Group we understand that at present there are key opportunities for the sector, opportunities for the audiovisual sector that we believe should take advantage of and that, from the Government of the Generality, we should lead and accompany. In this inquiry we will not assign three. We could signify many others, but we would not signify three of these opportunities. The first of these has to do with the impulse of the audiovisual hub taking advantage of the arrival of European foundations. The audiovisual hub is one of the great projects of the country, in which we know that the Government and its department are already working decisively. A project that will be known as Catalunya Media City and will be located in the Three Xemeneies of Sant Adrià de Besòs, also with the importance of what can be assumed for the urban development of this area. Catalonia Media City, a public-private project that will make up a digital and audiovisual sector policy in Catalonia, with an infrastructure that will enable us to develop all kinds of research-related initiatives, innovation and audiovisual production. In fact, we already know that this infrastructure will count, for example, with platforms and leading audiovisual technologies. In her words, Mrs Garriga, who we fully share, "the audiovisual sector is a strategic sector that has to set up the territory, empower the industry itself and give opportunities to local talent. It has been a long time, Members and Members, that professionals in this sector are leaving to realize their potential. And from the Republican Left we are clear that it is time to change this dynamic. And, to do so, let us work resolutely to offer the conditions to retain all this talent, which, as we have seen – and we give it when we start, as an example, right? – is demonstrated with the success, for example, of Alcarrás. The second opportunity we think is to promote audiovisual production in catalá is the drive of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. In this case, TV3_has always been a tractor engine of production and creation in Catalan language. A motor, however, that, after four decades and perhaps also after an excess of cophoism in the later years, needs an inn at a point. You need an inn to fit in, as we said yesterday in this faristol, in the 21st century. It is for this reason that we celebrate and applaud the renewal not only of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which was produced yesterday in this House, but also of the organ that regulates the public media of the country, such as the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. Cal a new look, cal a new focus, a new bet, which logically must also come accompanied by an economic bet, for the public media of our home. The usual one no longer works, as day yes day shows also the audience data, especially the data that make reference to the public children and youth. However, we believe that these days – and yesterday we also said so, in this faristol – with the war between Russia and Ukraine, the import and value of the country's public media has again been manifested. The chronicles that came to us during the first days of the war, but also the chronicles that still arrive today on the part of the public media, pose as manifest the excellent task of the public media of the country, which must be recognized and applauded at every opportunity that we have. Therefore, the bet for a strong corporation, adapted to current times, has to favor sense dubte this repulsion, this TV3 revival. We also take advantage of this inquiry to wish a lot of luck and uncertainty to Rosa Romà and her entire team for the task we are sending them, because we understand that it is a country task. Because the Catalan audiovisual sector, as we say, has a strategic value, but it also has an economic value. And it is also to be said, it is also to be remembered, the economic value of this industry: about two thousand registered businesses, a volume of business of about 2,000 million euros, an industry that gives work to fourteen thousand people... Therefore, we must also highlight the industrial value of the audiovisual world. We have identified two opportunities, and a third opportunity, that we understand that the audiovisual sector also has in our home, is what you have to see with the increase in the assumption of their department. We have not spoken in this Parliament, but we believe that it is also worth highlighting: an increase of the thirty_per_cent, from the overall point of view of the whole department, which will also have a direct impact on the lines of help to the audiovisual sector, that this 2022, let us remember, will extend to 25_million euros. Cal, Mrs. Garriga, counsel Garriga, that the administrations accompany the talent. And so we celebrate and applaud this line of help too. As we also understand that we must recognize all the work that we know is being done from the consultancy, without making any sound, so as to speak with all the great placards with the objective that they incorporate into our language: from one band, seeking the way to incorporate the production of cinema, series and documents that are already folded into the catalá by Televisión de Catalunya or through the Secretary of Linguistic Policy – there is already a lot of work done, and this work must be able to incorporate into these placards; and, on the other hand, working because the placards advise us of the openings that they are expected to be successful – this is calculated and studied – because they can be folded before, and therefore include in the offer. It's important, so, also know... not only have the offer already exist, but also anticipate us to all these upcoming premieres. The councillor has repeated this on more than one occasion: the predisposition of the great plataforms is good. And, therefore, let us celebrate, therefore, that there is this positive feedback with the great plataforms, and encourage you and your entire team to continue doing this work. For concloure, isn't it? , in this globalized environment, with a state that, once again, despite having the most progressive government of history ahead, does not really bet for linguistic and cultural diversity, since..., in this case, from the Republican Left, we are clear that the Government, with the Council of Culture ahead, has to continue working because Catalonia has returned to be a referent country as it has always been, captivating in the creation and audiovisual production for the national market, but also for the international market. We have to be... Catalonia has to be a country that is attracted to the gathering of entrepreneurs, to promote technological innovation and advanced training. We need to make this leap forward. In short, we have to be an attractive country so that the talent we have at home, which, as we have seen and as we have seen today, is a lot, I have the conditions to be able to develop its work in full. It is one of the great country consensuss and there is the future of a sector, as we say, strategic and comprehensive, but there is also the future of Catalan language. Therefore, she advises you to continue working from your department to strengthen the audiovisual sector in our home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.3.0	Then has the word Conseller Natàlia Garriga, Conseller of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.4.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputy Raquel Sans and the rest of the deputies and deputies. Congresswoman, I share with you everything you've said about the Golden Bear of the Alcarrás film. For us it was a joy to see an audiovisual project conceived and made in catalá rebia the maximum kept in an international festival of prestige. It was also a privilege to enjoy the film there, live, and share the projection with the entire team. I very much celebrate the triumph of Carla Simon, who is also the triumph of the technical, production, reality team, as well as those actors and amateur actresses who have broken out hours of their daily lives to participate in this film so well done. I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Neus Ballús, as you have already done, winner of the Gaudí Award for Best Film, with six current days, as well as all the people and teams guarded with the different awards of the academy. In particular Illusion that among the guardians there are many directors: Clara Roquet, Alba Sotorra, Laura Mañá... And it is that, as the Neus Ballús said in collecting the prize, "the women have come to the cinema not only to do the first things; we have come to stay there. The triumph of Alcarrás in Berlin shows us that when a cultural product has quality, it's the same language as it's made. Europe is clear, but we sometimes seem to have to believe it. The català has readers, has an audience at communication media; it has a audience at theatres and concerts, and has shown that it can also have a audience at cinemas, placards and bands. When there is a good offer, when the contents have the necessary quality, they connect with the diversity of people who make up our society. Therefore, we must produce culture in català, express ourselves in our language thinking of the sentient world. And, if what we do has quality, it will value and find its public, here and there. We encourage audiovisual creators to make their content in catalá, and we will continue to accompany them and help them so that they can do so. But we also encourage everyone to support them, to look for Catalan products at the cinemas, at the plataforms, at the xarxes, at the consoles, at all the pants we have on our hands. We must realize that Catalan language, as well as the linguistic diversity that enriches us, is a value that can be preserved in the street, in our day-to-day life, but also in participation and cultural consumption, and especially in the audiovisual sector, which is the language of our time. That said, we are aware that as the government we have responsibilities to promote Catalan audiovisual, and we do not want to take refuge in it. This is why we have identified ourselves as priorities of the Department of Culture to promote the audiovisual industry, to make it strong, to equip it with good tools, good spaces, to promote talent, to encourage the creation of all types of content in our language and to make it reach the public through all possible channels. In this sense, we share the vision of the new president of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, Rosa Romà, to whom I wish to congratulate for her appointment yesterday – to her and to all the team – who in her parliament explained the need for the corporation to generate different contents for all the public, especially for children and young people, and thus become the motor of the audiovisual fabric of Catalonia. This visit and the actions that we are deploying from the Department of Culture must allow us to increase the presence of català in the audiovisual and digital environment in the next few years. And, following the thread of what you said, any developments in this direction that provide us with the audiovisual communication law will have a positive impact on the sector. The Spanish State has neither favoured nor favoured cultural and linguistic diversity at these times, and from Catalonia we must continue to insist and denounce this lack of responsibility. We have just seen with the New Economy of the Language project, on which, of the 1,100_millions of investment planned, only 2,7_per_cent will be allocated to languages that are not the castle, despite the fact that forty_per_cent of the population of the State lived in territories with a co-official own language. But, for another band, we need to use all the tools we have in the attic to find solutions for ourselves and make the most of our resources and our ability to work in the network so as to strengthen and grow the audiovisual fabric in catal and catal. As we have said since the beginning of this parliamentary term, for the Government of the Generalitat, audiovisual is a strategic sector, one for the country. It is because of their direct relationship with people, with culture, with creation, but it is also because of their economic value. You said that now, didn't you? , generates a lot of wealth: these two_thousand businesses, fourteen_thousand people, almost 2,000_million euros of business, according to data from the Idescat 2019. But it's that, besides, it's a tractor sector of the other industries in the country, that is, of the other cultural industries in the country. It is also a spearhead to explain to the world, to project us out of our diversity, all reflecting the plurality of visions and sights that have always shaped our identity. And we've seen it with our cinema and also with our series: they arouse interest in festivals and world-wide television programs. Our professionals work outside Catalonia and see their trajectory recognized in these other rights. That the demand for growing Catalan professionals is a symbol of the well done work of our home training centres. Now, we are aware that many of these professionals have left because there is no space here to develop their talent. Working outside Catalonia must be an option, but not a necessity. We want all these professionals to be able to make a career at home and the value chain to be complete, from training to exhibition. Muscularising the audiovisual sector is key to making a referent country. The Department of Culture's action plan establishes this political will: to boost the audiovisual sector as a source of economic growth and also to preserve European cultural diversity from Catalonia's own identity in a globalized market. In order to achieve this objective, in 2022 the department has endowed the ICEC – the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises – with an initial premise for the joint audiovisual sector that we have pushed a little more than 25_millions, up to 28,2_millions, before 21,2 which it held, initials, 2021, and 17,5 of 2020. It is obvious that this was thanks to this increase that we have in the Department of Culture, that we are moving from this two per cent. In percentages, these figures represent a thirty-two_per_cent increase in relation to the year 2021 and a sixty_per_cent, almost, increase in relation to the year 2020. Part of this feature is translated into the call for thirteen help lines that cover the entire audio-visual value chain. Then I'll go into some more detail of these lines. In the band of grants, the department's task in its own years revolves around three basic measures. The first – you have already commented – is to boost this audiovisual hub, Catalunya Media City. You explained very well, Congresswoman, what we want to achieve with this. In short, let me explain the construction of a complex in the Three Xemeneias del Besòs that will become a centre for research, innovation and production of audiovisual, video games and digital content sectors. As you probably should know, this project is moving forward. We will enter to form part of the Consortium of the Besòs. We are satisfied, very satisfied, with the conversations that we are having with all the administrations, especially with the assemblies of Sant Adrià de Besòs and Badalona. For us, it is essential that this project integrates into the environment, that I create jobs, that it stimulates the whole area, and that the visions and the visions, above all, are theirs. The second measure is to ensure a greater presence of audiovisual products produced, doubled and subtitled in catal and occidental in all possible display windows. This is why, of course, we have been holding meetings with all the streaming platforms, which are progressing very positively, and I am convinced that they will soon yield good results. The third measure is, as you said, the help lines of the ICEC. They need to know that all audiovisual aid has value criteria linked to territoriality and language, except for development aid and international co-productions and the production of animation works. On the other hand, the ICEC offers a specific line for the production and advertising of long films in the original Catalan version. In general, by 2022 we are working to provide the best cinematographic and fictional projects in catalá with more resources. In conclusion, the reinforcement of the audiovisual sector is one of the strategic axes of the Department of Culture, together with the promotion of language, universal access to culture and the construction of a cultural reference system. This government's intention is to work throughout the country, and I am convinced that the strength of the audiovisual sector will have a positive return for everyone and will help us build this rich, diverse country and hope that we long for it. The talent we already have, as we were able to prove in Berlin and at the Gaudí awards gala. And I can assure them that, on the part of the Government, the work of structural strengthening, monitoring of the sector and better financing will be on the rise. Thank you very much. And have a very good day. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.5.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about residential and day-care places]] [[300-00129/13]] Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The 14th item on the agenda is the question to the Government about residential and day-care places, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.6.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Counselor, a few weeks ago, we were listening to President Aragones rocking this first year of government. We said in your day that it seemed to us that the balance was poor. We believe that there is no special policy that citizens can identify with their government this past year, right? So, in fact, this year could be the summary of the last two years of government in our country. You have marked a very clear line from the point of view of the management of residential services, but, if we make the balance– and the situation in which we find ourselves now is not the result of this last year, but of the decisions taken in the last two years–, therefore, we can say or can say that for the residential sector, especially for people who have to access a residence, they have been two bad years. Some data. Currently we have 61,000 places in Catalonia and some twenty-thousand places of day center– 61,000 residential and some twenty-thousand places of day center. Disit_ thousand Catalans and Catalans are on the waiting list to enter a residence. Five years ago – five years ago – the government did not make any territorial programming of the presence of residential places and day centers. This means that there are places in Catalonia that do not know how many places there will be or how many places there will be needed or how we will finance them. Five years. They're the same. You, since the year 2012 – the majority of the Republican Left, Together with the different logotypes, the collection of the CUP and even later also the collection of the commons – have approved assumptions to be dedicated zero_euro to the construction of public residences– zero. Since the year 2012 there has been no public residence in Catalonia of the hands of the governments of Esquerra Republicana, Junts, with the gathering of the commons and the CUP. Our system is absolutely decompensated, she will advise. In Catalonia there are 1,053 large people's residences, with a total of 61,000 places, eight of them private and only two of them public. If we take all the seats, we have that half the seats are considered public – because they are collaborative, concerted, in a very small minority are one hundred_per_cent public – and the other half are absolutely private. It's decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-decompensation-dem. And that makes the vision we have of these two years very clear. There is a very clear political line: while the private can build residences, there will not be a totxo of public residence. We are advocates of public-private collaboration, we have said so many times, but also of the public. You can defend the public and defend, as we do, that in those territories where this service will hardly be donated by a private person there has to be public reversal, councillor. Because not building public residences generates inequalities between territories and between citizens. Otherwise, it was not understood, for example, that a city like Sabadell, more than 200,000 citizens and citizens, did not have a public residence. Or, for example, that Badia del Vallès... In fact, the Vallès is a desert, from the residential point of view and day centres. Badia del Vallès asks for a public residence in some equipment, an old school they already have. We have Ripollet's, too – it's historical. Or the Penedès-Garraf, which is another desert, from the residential point of view. There we have Sant Pere de Ribes. They have a magnificent center, they only have to open it – they only have to open it. It's equipped, but there's no way you can tell us whether or not you're going to concert day center places because you can put it on the way. And that's how we wear years. Thanks to the fact that the assembly built it, that this is another thing, let's say it... because you no longer have everything; you aspire to arrange, if you are lucky, some places. Or the Manresa platform, which came to see us yesterday: two large private residences, will settle there. They have one of the public, actually, without a toilet in the room and with a kitchen that does not meet the minimum requirements and has to carry the dinar from another place. That's the reality. Saint Adrià de Besòs: in this it is not that the places are increased, it is that they are reduced; they have closed residences, and if I have seen you I do not remember. So, this is the situation, this is the gap we have. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, we consider that it is necessary to put on hold the residential disinvestment in Catalonia prioritizing – we believe that it can be done – the construction of two public residences there where the waiting list or the geographical situation determines it, and, moreover, to arrange 2,500 places of residences and five hundred of day-centres. This, he will advise, costs you 78_million euros– 78_million euros. There is more planning, she advises, to the proposal made by the alternate government of Catalonia than that of the department. Another element that concerns us, he will advise: signed agreements. It is surprising that you consider that the agreements that have been signed in previous legislatures do not go with you. Mr. El Homrani is only signed by many, but some signed it; agreements to set aside residences and day centres. We listen to you and we listen to your team say that this doesn't go with you. "That which was signed..., listen, let's start talking another time, the people have spent another time, eh? They said to the council: "No, no, we don't have programming, "If we ever do... it can't be. Or go on, you can't rule this Catalonia. Here's a continuity of games, there's a continuity of political project. Home, if you've changed everything from party to party, I'd still understand that the line was different, but it's you, the same; so... Miri, in this situation – you know it – there is the Assembly of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which signed an agreement of a public day center, one hundred_per_cent public– « one hundred_per_cent wants to say places and personal, transferred to the Generality of Catalonia. That's the signed agreement, and I hope you guys get it. It will be inside a residential macro-equipment that has made the assembly of assisted floors, Miguel Hernández. Molins de Rei, protocol signed the year 2018, fifty places: never again knew. Llobregat Hospital, Prytanis residence, 100 places of residence and forty day center: never again. Signed chords for you. Please complete what you yourself have signed. You can't rule Catalonia..., you can't pretend that Catalonia is moving forward if you're not even able to complete your own agreements. I come up with some possible justifications on your part, Counselor, because also, as we know each other..., I'm already coming up, because then I won't have time. Pressupost: at his last appearance to the Social Rights Commission he asked for more covid funds to be able to open residential places. He won't find us, to us, in this dichotomy between covid or residential places. No, no. The competition is yours. The competition is from the Generalitat de Catalunya, there is or there is no covid. And, therefore, look for the resources where you consider it opportune. I'll give him some ideas. Miri, the years 2020 and 2021 was over, the Government of the Generality, 3,200_million euros of covid funds. Do you know how much, for example, the year 2021 came to your department? Four hundred and twenty-seven. Did they dedicate all of them to residences? No, no, They spent 132 million euros on residences, at a time of extreme gravity. I'm asking you to talk to the economic advisor. I ask you to put the residential problem at the centre of the political agenda, which also marks the social needs of the sector and of the citizenry. Our spokesman, Alicia Romero, said in the previous intervention: you spent less than you could have spent. And we're where we are. Tomorrow part of the 700_million euros allocated a few weeks ago from the third additional provision of the Statute, which they agreed with the Government of the State. Or, if you think it's not enough, tell your president that you're going to the presidents' conference and that you need to improve funding on this issue. But stop crying, they're trying to find resources in what's their own competition. European funds? Welcome. It is probably his opportunity, he will advise, to mark before and after in this policy of residences. You do well to search Catalonia explaining the lines. You do well to talk, all the same, about who are the lines of the European foundations. In the development of the cures it will have us at the side, but we need to know that you mark a difference between the previous two years and this new stage. I'm done. Compliment of the agreements adopted. Not just those you have signed or signed your government, but those of this Parliament. I ask you if you please – and I told the committee – to review the agreements of the Single House of Residences. There are fifty-eight agreements. There's everything: that if the model, what we have to do... there's everything, granted to everyone. I don't put four in it, to go fast – then we'll talk about it. You must change the inspection system; unannounced inspections, which inspect the quality of the service. We need to move private medical attention from residential centres, which encourage home care services – European funds will allow it –; that it reviews the reports – our people must be cared for for by the staff sufficiently, well paid, well paid. And do yourself the favor of meeting with the workers in the sector to improve their working conditions. I'll continue later, in the turn of the line. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.7.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.8.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. Moreno, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, we haven't talked, And, in fact, the first thing I have to say to him – and I'm sure he shares it with me – is that it's very difficult to make an inquiry about places, about waiting lists. And, in a way, it's hard because even it's hard to make clear who are the data that supports any of the information we can give them. Not because we don't have the data, that they do... you also know that the information services we have in the department aren't the most modern possible, and sometimes it costs a lot to marry all these data. You said: "European funds are an opportunity to... Surely the clearest opportunity I have is the game that we can just set aside to change the whole information and management system of the department, which will help us all to have all the information, not only to have all the data at the current 100 %, but also to be able to improve this management that makes the waiting lists also great with the social services of the meetings. You know this is a complex issue. It's not just a theme... It's obviously the competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya, but it's not just the Generalitat de Catalunya. Here we play, therefore, the State, with the law of dependence – I will only make a little parenthesis, because, if not, we cannot talk about the law of dependence –; the Generality, obviously, and also the social services of the assemblies, at the time that they must also make the PIA. Therefore, everything folded is like a complicated species of cocktail. Only a few data – we already know them, but also to be clear. The Generalitat poses its presumption of almost 1,700_million euros, 200 of which are from the State, for the financing of the law of dependence. And we all know that, it's recognized by the same ministry. I mean, it's no mystery, that the law of dependence has acquired some expectations, some very important expectations, that in the end it is also, in a certain way, collapsing the system. You remembered the data. Jo..., just an afigito, when, for example, he tried to justify the difficulty of holding the data. You talk... because it's true, because there are seven thousand people in a waiting list of residence petitions, but these seven thousand people, some, quite a few – quite a few – when you offer them a place to have, so at that time they don't want it. And it's normal. As the reality is that we have a very large waiting list, people point to the waiting list. But it's not real, the waiting list, because at the end..., go, we should have list 1, the list of people who gave up the square once and they gave up the square another time. So we're talking about seven thousand people, but we're not actually talking about seven thousand people, but we're talking about a lot of people. And the complexity of the data also means that – it is true – there are a lot of people who are on the waiting list..., we quantify them in some nine thousand people, not in the seven thousand, so I say it, because they are people who have come out of the lists. But it's also true that, of these people, there are many who are on the waiting list, but that doesn't mean they're unsettled, because the law of dependence is that attention can be multiple – multiple – in different spaces that contemplate the law itself, huh? : from non-professional caregivers to occupational therapists, home care services... Therefore, I insist that it is complex to get to define how well the waiting list works. To give it some data, to give it that we do have accounted for is that there are about five thousand people who at these times are on a waiting list and do not enjoy any of the services. What have we done since the government of the generality and just since the department? And that's what I've been explaining since the first day, and that's why I believe it and I really believe it. The growth of the assumption that we held in our department was basically dedicated, more than just helping to consolidate some tariffs that were applied or some staff who needed the subject of DGAIA, to two great axes. One, the program contract – therefore, you serve home care, especially, and help social services. You and I know it's insufficient, but it was an injection of 70 million euros. It is an effort and an increase of a twenty-i-five percent of the program contract. And then, instead, that's also my obsession: try to reduce the waiting lists, because, in the end, I think that's a topic that you ask all of us, because we all have people around us who are waiting lists. What have we done, and one of the first steps that will also help to alleviate this waiting list? The injection of 17_million euros to be able to end the suspension of the non-professional caregiver's share. To the package of the non-professional caregiver, therefore, we allocate 255_million euros. And that's obviously not going to end the waiting list for residential services, but it can certainly help to make this right. And why am I commenting on that? And you said: "Residences are not built. In this legislature we will build residences, and build residences thanks to European foundations. We can't build them all. The problem of the European Foundation..., first, that a residence, therefore, is worth money, the cost of the residence must be 8_million euros, and the European Foundations are not infinite either. But they have a problem, the European foundations, and you have to set the project, all the documentation, because year 26 must be over or over. So, any subsidy we give – and then I will finish explaining it – in the European fund game..., the year 2026_has to be over. Of the European foundations, there will be 200_million euros that we will allocate precisely to residential spaces, to the construction of nine residences. I insist, in those that are already more or less in processing, and, therefore, we have the certainty that they could be finished by the year 2026, and, above all – that I believe that it is where we should try to put the focus with the European foundations – in the remodeling of the existing residences just to be able to adapt them to what we all want, that this new model of personal autonomy: individual dwellings, spaces of coexistence much smaller, washes in the rooms, ventilations... Or so, everything that we have put ourselves, as we said, before the mirror the covid. About the protocols. I never said I wouldn't listen to protocol. What I'm saying is that the protocols – because it's signed that way, that they're left to the second presuppositional departure – we need to rethink them. Some assemblies want the protocol to be converted into convenient, and we cannot transform the protocol into convenient, first, if the residence is not built, because this means passing through the government, subsequent assumptions... Therefore, the agreements, when we are considering – and I have commented on other occasions – that what we want to do is a map of the need for public places throughout Catalonia in precisely the light of the lists of wait... Obviously, we have the protocols, which we will look at, and we will try to adjust these protocols signed to this territorial distribution in the light of the places where we lack or do not lack public places. The European foundations, therefore, will allow us to make some residence. On our own days of commenting on some, some that we have the facility to make them either because there was some written project or because its processing is advanced. But what I'm sure we can also help is all those gatherings, all those entities that already have projects or started or that have a lot of gear. And, therefore, we can help them with European funds to finance these residences. I also believe in the public-private, public-social concept. So what we're going to do with the funds is give a boost to the construction of these spaces. And another theme is places. Of the places, of the money we had reserved, that is 58_million euros in order to reduce the waiting list..., we are working. I'm not talking about "we'll do it; we're at these times working on planning to see who are the needs of the territory. And I am a person who never criticizes previous governments, whether they are mine or others. I think and I'm convinced that everyone's trying to do the best they know. Now, we, from the department, also want to mark our own style, and our own style is that I will not sign any agreements or protocols for the future, unless they are supported by a certain planning. We have a certain amount of planning – as they do from the Education Department, from the territorial housing plan, and you really know who the needs of the territory are – and we may start to see how these places can actually be allocated, but not before. Therefore, the protocols are not true that we threw them into the rubble. That's not true. The protocols, which, moreover, can be executed in this first planning because the residences are already constituted... You were talking to me about Santa Coloma. So, obviously, we've got an hour with the mayor, and so we'll talk about it. You also know that one topic is the inter-administrative agreements and the other places, private ones, that have to go out in a public contest. So, we're working on this, we're working on this, and I think we can give the right answers. In the next part of the intervention, therefore, we will just solve some of the doubts that are raised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And, in the turn of the line, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.10.0	I recognize, Counselor, that it is a pleasure to be able to inquire with you, because in the measure of possible the subject if 'lsap, the knower, and we can go further. We agree, perhaps, on the obsession with reducing the waiting lists, with the difference that you have the responsibility to do so, and I have the responsibility to monitor that you do it as we think it should be done, that it may not be the right way, but we consider it to be the most important. He's not bad at criticizing previous governments, even if they're of the same kind. Self-criticism is always positive, because it's true that it's not always good. In any case, I am talking about the majority agreements that are made between governments, in addition, of the same color, and that give security to the assemblies, because there are joints that, since you do not, they must do the work, that does not touch them, that is not their competence. That maybe Sabadell, Santa Coloma, can make some inversion, but..., and Tiana or Montgat, that building a residence is all his inversion assumption? This is where the public investment has to be on the part of the Government of Catalonia. Not all gatherings can do that. You spoke of dependency and finance. Indeed, the Generality places more money, like the rest of the autonomous communities, to finance the law of dependence. But here, at the top of the waiting list, and other communities, with the same economic problems, no. Catalonia is the first autonomous community to have more money than ever after the shoal in dependence, 200_million euros more each year. Therefore, this situation is receding. Now the generality is laying down the batteries. It's also good news to cut back on the _months. That's right, from what I'm asking now. We've got a list of previous waits, which I think is going to look good. The information that comes to me is that this applies, let's say, from what I'm asking now; if not, better – if not, better. He said a thousand people are on the waiting list to enter a residence. Actually, this list, these say a thousand maybe aren't real. Why aren't they real? Because as in the metropolitan area it is triguen more or less four years to enter a public residence, when one starts to find a little bad, it points out. Because, if not, the day you really need it you won't have it – and you won't. There's no other option. Therefore, for this reason the reduction of the waiting list... That's why it's not real, because people, aware that they're having trouble, are aiming ahead. And, therefore, when they tricked..., so maybe..., "Ostres, they called me before now and didn't expect me, or, unfortunately, that person is no longer there, who also passes us. Miri, I was also asking for some details. I've been able to get him to build residences. That's already, let's say, one before and one after those two years later. I congratulate her, if that's the way it is. The story is that I would like to know how many, where and if they will be one hundred_per_cent publics. You can tell me five, God. I don't even tell him to tell me the place, that's what you'll do when you politically consider it necessary to do so. But..., five, ten, twelve, one, fifteen? Public? In the publiques? Shall we do it? Less or less, I don't tell him I've made it that concrete. Are the projects made or are they not made? Will the gatherings be part of it? You, in some appearance here, a few months ago, explained a certain system of participation also of the joints at the time of presenting the projects. Is that gonna be that? Won't it be like that? The truth is that gatherings also need a little time to prepare for a call that can be imminent, at the time of building these residences, right? And, look, the subject of agreements, protocols, agreements... the point is to have places. Therefore, we do not enter into this debate of whether the protocol is converted into convenient, if the convention is built... Many times, to start building, you need to have the certainty that the Generality will arrange the seats. There's no more. Agree that it is complete – agree that it is complete – because, if it is not complete the previous ones, someone may think that they will not complete the ones you sign. And this is a country that must be based on interinstitutional trust. We're providing people with services, with residences. And, therefore, I ask for a little more concrete. He hasn't told me about anything else, like the issue of sector workers or inspections... but this will be one of the issues, Counselor. That's to say, it's not just creating more, it's like retaking the system we have, it hasn't worked for us. And this Parliament has already done a task, and I ask you if you please take advantage of it, that you take advantage of it for the sake of the city council, that you carry many years waiting for some solution to complicated vital situations that are given at the end, normally, of the period of our life and that you can treat with the utmost care to give a good service from the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.11.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Moreno, I get a person who completes the agreements. I've been Director General, but I've basically been a Member of Parliament for five years. So, as I can imagine, I agree with me 'l write, the complex. I'm trying to complete these complex agreements that come to Parliament, even though some of them fall – because, when you want the legislature, they fall... from the department, not just me, huh? I mean, I'm lucky to have some travel companions who've been Members of this chamber. Therefore, we are all very clear about what is to be completed, and what is to be completed are the agreements, especially when you are the majority in the department. So, about what you say we need to review the agreements entered into in the monogram plethora that it was done... I'm also worried about the inspection system; in fact, I asked that I want to talk to the department. In medical care we are working, we are working with the Agency of Integrated Social and Health Care. It's true that we need to improve home care. It's true that we're also going to have to check the routes. You told me about the workers in the sector. We found a good one, I didn't take part. The convention was signed on the 29th of December. We're not talking. It's a deal that affects the employer's affective workers, and that can cause us some problems. I can give you my personal opinion on the arrangement; I don't know if I need it. In any case, I think it's a deal that will make first and second workers, but it's a deal signed. Therefore, we are analysing it and also evaluating it to see how we can benefit the totality of the sector, because I do not like that there are first-time and second-time workers. And that, as you know and I assume you understand, is also a lot of millions of euros, and in the end the money we have is what it is. When we talk about waiting lists, it's true, we have a very high waiting list. It's also true that we are, I believe, in some of the ministry's papers..., the autonomous community that has the most dependent people, even more than Andalusia. It's much harder to manage waiting lists in a community where you have a lot of people depending than in a community where they're relatively smaller. And the waiting lists also went according to the services that they ended up offering them. We, for example, are the autonomous community that you most serve as a housewife, unlike other autonomous communities. And, therefore, our waiting list is bigger because the services we give are also more cars than the waiting list... You know that the waiting list grew especially in 2015, after it entered all grades I, and that completely blocked the system. And it is also true, as I said, that we, working from the hands of the social services and the joints, have at our disposal this..., also with the possibility of the joints, the social services, at the time of making PIAs. What we're doing to try to improve these waiting lists, beyond the money. That you can say to me: "Clearly, this is in the future, I don't know what... No, no. We also try to reduce waiting lists to the hour of valuations. So, we've been on the ground and those teams of valuations have been reinforced in those places where we had much bigger waiting lists. Places that have been reinforced? The Maresme, the Eastern Valley, the Anoia, the Garraf, the Alt Penedès. Therefore, we are also committed to this issue. One more of the issues that can help us... because, of course, we're always talking about the waiting lists of the residential system, and it's like a kind of contrast, because for one day we have to deinstitutionalize and for the other we're all always obstinate in residences and places of residences. So I think we need to change that, too. Like we also need to rethink the day centers, because the day centers, if they don't have transportation..., people want to go to the day center that's close to their homes. So, what are we doing, too, when we're talking about this new model of personal autonomy? Beyond the residences, which, more... Clearly, a residence is worth 8_million euros, and as many as seventy people. Or go on, 8_million euros for seventy people who are in that residence. So we believe that we need to maximize the service of home care, the new model of SAIARs, which we want to deploy throughout the territory, which is space between the retirement home and the day centre, which serves you so that people can be at home as long as possible, but at the same time, as long as possible. Rethinking the whole system of home care by expanding your services, serving as a household waiter, serving as a pharmacy, providing advanced tele-assistance, serving us and helping us with European foundations. Therefore, yes, reduce the waiting lists, yes; building of residences, three – publics to build..., which will be public publics, three, we can do no more. Now we know, because it has come to us, that there are gatherings... that between gatherings and enterprises they want to make residences. We will try to help them with European foundations. European foundations are a public call. So we'll wait for all the projects to arrive. After this year, when we award European funds, I think we can all say that things have improved at least a little. At least this is our will. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.13.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the lines that the Department of Social Rights will push with the European Foundations Next Generation]] [[300-00133/13]] Let's move on to the fifteenth point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the lines that will drive the Department of Social Rights with the European Foundations Next Generation. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mrs Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Just two years ago, the world suffered a very strong understatement that forced us to restrict our rights, to live with uncertainty, to change those rules of the game with which we live and, at the same time, to close ourselves at home. And, in fact, it will be this diumenge, which will make just two years of confinement because of the state of alarm and having to lock us home, and those who were and are essential servants, right? ...,feeling the burden of this responsibility overtaken. I'm talking about health personnel, but I'm talking about clean staff, supermarket staff, firefighters, safety nets, carers, social services, etc. But when it began as a crisis in purely health-care principles, at the end of a short time it was seen that it had a great pes and a crisis that was also social and economic, which, moreover, had an impact not only on the macro level, on the big companies, on the multinationals, on the great world economy, but also on the micro level, affecting people, affecting families, small businesses, entrepreneurs, schools... It was a crisis that, starting from the epidemiological cause, came, by osmosis, we would say, to all parts of our society. Here in Parliament we have talked many times about the effects that it has had, which it has and will have, therefore, this crisis. And, in fact, we started doing it telematically, as well as the consequence of this pandemic, and now, by luck, we can do it face-to-face. And aware, precisely, of this reality, we made a monographic plethora last December – which you also witnessed, with all your debates – precisely speaking of one of the most important effects of this pandemic, which is the effect on people's mental health, but, obviously, it is not the only effect that this crisis has. And, in fact, one of the things that has made us clear is that either we face all the effects that it has in a cross-cutting and holistic way or we won't get out of it. And, in fact, also one of the knowledge that we have and that is the effects of this inquiry is that we have to give to all policies not only of the Public Administration..., but all those decisions with political implications that are taken must take this look from salvation. But since salvation... I'm not talking about medicalization, am I? , but I speak of this vision, precisely, of salvation in all policies. And a good example of this is, precisely, the European Foundations Next Generation, a European Foundation that, under this umbrella to promote the opportunity to boost the economic transition and digital transformation, plans to inject more than 750,000_million euros to stimulate, precisely, the European economy, but with this vision not at short notice, right? , only with a mid- and long-term visit, to make, therefore, a transition towards the sustainable growth of our society, starting also from social cohesion and the more territorialized part, more close to the territory. For us, this is the important point of this question, which is that we have to start precisely from the proximity, from how we manage these European foundations, but from home and precisely promote citizenship. This 2022 Catalunya waits for more than 2,700_million euros. And a few days ago we knew that the advice you run will be the main recipient of these funds, around 1,040_million euros. Of these more than 1,000_million, nearly 400 go directly to people's attention, and what remains, precisely, to housing policies. Therefore, these Next Generation foundations are one of the opportunities that we have, so surely, this postpandemic, which is that we have the opportunity to improve and modernise our residences – now they were talking about it, in the previous question – to increase the service of cures and personal autonomy, also giving it a much more community-based view – that now in the last intervention your aim was, right? , which we must change our gaze and surely rethink what should be this model of personal assistance–, to increase, as in, home care, to promote personal autonomy and independence of people... Reversing also the qualifiable logger deficiency, precisely that logger addressed to vulnerable people, vulnerable families, but also, for example, to the young collection, and rehabilitating buildings to gain energy efficiency in this shared fight that is climate emergence. And, unfortunately, today and this week we need to talk about this energy deficiency and the need to rethink the energy model too, because, precisely, it is very much affecting this population that we want to care for and protect, that are, above all and basically, the most vulnerable people. We've got a lot on the table, and these last few days I've heard that you and your team have been explaining, precisely, to the whole country that they bring us, what opportunities they provide us with these Next Generation funds. I have done in Barcelona, Tarragona, Lleida, Girona, Tortosa, Vic, Tremp and Vilafranca del Penedès. I don't think I've been left out of the times you've done, but specifically I wanted to focus on habitat policies, as in the case of example, because it's one of the main axes of this Next Generation foundation, which are aimed at, precisely, that the rehabilitation of that habitat park that we already have is a vertebrator and dynamizer of the sector that allows us not only to improve energy efficiency and quality, and, obviously, also the security of the habitat park that we already have, but also to affect in a much more powerful way those barrels that can usually be more degraded in this sense. Therefore, it is a matter of helping communities to make rehabilitation projects that allow us to reduce energy consumption – a major issue of topicality, unfortunately, at these times – making systems more efficient and better equipped with faeces, blankets and tanks, which also allow us to facilitate accessibility, but at the same time take care of and age for all those housing diseases that we can find and that are structural. But this program is not just – the Next Generation funds – a line of help, but it has to be a transformative tool for the economy, to fight against climate change and also to promote the social cohesion of all citizens. And, therefore, they are also an opportunity for the sum of efforts between administrations and also the promoter sector in the field of housing promotion, especially when we place the focus on this social and more amenable logue. Therefore, we also believe that we should give a look that goes much further, more transversely, and that is a point of inflection of public-private collaboration in housing promotion, thinking above all of promoting accessibility to those people who have difficulty accessing the conventional housing market. I think it's a few things that we need to do to put citizenship in the centre, to talk about rights, to talk about covering the needs that we can have and with which we can find ourselves, but that at times it favors this not only climate sustainability, but also economic sustainability, to which we are committed to walking and simply going for the sake of the purest I would say, from the most selfish perspective, survival, isn't it? So, we need to get out of here. And it is in this sense that, in order to improve people's lives, to leave us no one else behind, even because it serves us as a impulse to transform society into this new model that we need, to escape also from existenceism or paternalism in the making of decisions in the social sphere to give people and strength to what they want, that they need the person, especially when they can find themselves in a situation or a situation of old age or in a situation of vulnerability..., so it is for all that we would like, counsel, that we can also, from this Faristol, explain who are the benefits and opportunities, as they think precisely the application of these Next Generation functions, that from their advice in helping us to build this whole society can be shared. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.15.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Té ara la parula la senhora Violant Cervera, social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.16.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... MP Laïlla, I thank you for allowing me to talk about the European foundations of the Faristol. As you said, well, European foundations are a great opportunity for our country, and especially for the policies that are due to the end of our department. You remembered: 1,040_million euros – it's money. And what we did... because it's the main concern we had with the team that we're working on European foundations: it was like getting this information and being as transparent as possible to most people. As you said, we have made eight speakers, which I must confess that when we set them up, we have certain doubts, discussions between our own team, so we say: "Ostres, going to explain some basics to the citizen is like a very delicate topic, but I think it was nice, that it was right in the territories that we could get this information. And why was he commenting on it? Because it's really a lot of money – now I'm going to try to get a little bit off it – and the main difficulty we see is that the lack of information makes the sector feel like many times that those European foundations don't go along with them because of the lack of information. And what we want is this, doing a transparency exercise, I'm aware that it's true that there's a lot of money, but, as I'll explain, I'm sure we'll end up missing money. I think we're not going to be happy with the country, because we're going to be able to put a lot of projects on the table. What have we done to be the most transparent? Not only do I make these explanations to the different territories, but not just the question that I thank you for today, so all parliamentary groups are familiar with it, but we also have at these times, on the departmental web page, a web page explaining the different lines of European foundations, with this will, that they are as transparent as possible. During the month of March it will come out..., in fact, they are now..., the bases will come out, and, once the bases are published, and, therefore, everyone – the sector, the assemblies –..., they will be able to value five projects they have on the table in order to be able to present. The call will be out during the month of May. Therefore, we will give as much time as possible so that everyone, if they have – especially in residential areas, as I mentioned in the previous question – advanced projects, can present themselves. What is one of the advantages of European foundations? So that they could present themselves 'hiequipments and works that have begun to be realized since the fever of the year 2020. What's wrong? That the year 26 has to be finished. This is the main drawback. And so, when you have to build work, unless you've got permissions, plans... it'll probably be more complicated. Thus, as I said, yes, 1,040_million euros. In housing policies, €640_million, and in service to people, about €400_million– concretely, €397_million. If we speak, for example, of housing policies, of these 640_million euros, 480 go to the rehabilitation of housings, buildings or buildings in barri format, to hear us, very focused on energy efficiency. That means habitations... And, in addition, the subsidies, which would go to the individual level and to the individual, depending on the energy efficiency capacity that can arrive, precisely, to reduce. In this order of things, the call for habitations has already come out, came out last Tuesday. So this one's already on the move. Their bases, not the summons – I forgive. From the convocation, for example, of habitats, in the convocation of barrels the subsidies can go from 8,100_euros to 21,000_euros in the habitats; in the matter of buildings, from 6,300 to 18,800, and in the habitats– the concept of the reconstruction of your own habitat – to 3,000_euros for each of the habitats. Another one of the lines of action – and you were also commenting on it –..., know that Catalonia has a great deficiency in the matter of housing. And, therefore, 160_million euros will be for the construction of public housing dedicated to social logger. Therefore, we believe that we will be able to build almost four thousand dwellings dedicated to social logger, and the subsidies will go around fifty thousand euros per dwelling. In which it refers to the different parties that go more directly to people, the call is thought of in six groups of..., six different calls. Half of the money, as mentioned in the previous question, went to the construction or remodeling of residential spaces, night and day, addressed to large people, to people with some type of disability, to people who have problems arising from mental illness, or to emergency spaces, for example, for sensitive materials. With what kind of will? So, precisely, to create these residential spaces that the covid has put us before the miracle, as we said, many times, and that we must serve for, in other possible circumstances, not to pass the difficulties that we have gone through at this time. What will these help consist of? So in residential spaces that provide smaller units of coexistence, individual rooms, remodeling of existing spaces. Therefore, very much faced, precisely, with this singularity. Two-hundred_million euros, therefore, will be for the construction of these residential spaces. Therefore, all those entities, enterprises, joint ventures, which have projects – and, therefore, which could be financed from the fever of the 20th year – can submit to this call. A single call that we give special importance to will be a call for new technologies to serve the care and care of people. And you and I, who are very sensitive to the whole issue of the Agency of Integrated Social and Health Care..., this is an economic game of about 60_million euros that has to help us precisely this: teleassistance, telemedicine, home automation..., all the help that we need to allow people with some type of dependence to be Romanesque as long as possible. Another of the lines are technological projects that must contribute to the improvement and transformation of the management model of social services. What we talked about: technological advances that must enable us, both the Generality and the assembly, to improve in these administrative processes. Another of the lines: innovative projects in social services, all these projects – sensellarism... – that must also serve us in order to be able to stay out of the system other ways of hearing social services. Therefore, pilot projects that can be properly presented..., that we will do with suitable joint ventures or with concrete entities, that can, precisely, work in this line. Five of the lines: modernisation of residential spaces for children, adolescents and youth facilities. From this line, therefore, is where we can build the Barnahus, which are these integral spaces for the care of infants and adolescents who are victims of sexual rape, and remodeling of residential spaces or juvenile entities. And, lastly, an action directed directly at the joints, which are actions in the matter of accessibility. Accessibility..., motor accessibility– walking– and also all that hearing, visual accessibility... Therefore, what we want is for the assemblies to be able to present their projects – web pages that are fully accessible... – in order to take a step forward in accessibility. Who are the lines that concern us – especially my own? For example, the entire habitat line. Four hundred and eighty million euros are a lot of money. We need to be ready, because that's also what the European foundations are about, to rehabilitate more than sixty thousand buildings. This can be a very complex job, because it is true that grants can come to finance forty per cent of the cost, but the rest has to put the city down. To make it easier, what have we done? We have signed two cooperation agreements. One – and here the Councillor of Economics, to whom I greatly appreciate his collaboration – with the Department of Economics and the Department of Social Rights and the Habitatage Agency, with financial entities, two financial entities that must, therefore, allow us to help in this financing of the expenses to be made by the citizens. And another cooperation agreement with professional colleges and estate managers, which must be made technical offices to help them to be able to channel these European foundations. Therefore, we believe that the calls will be sufficiently clear. Let's leave as much time as possible so that we can present the maximum number of citizens. And, as you said, and especially in housing, we think it's an opportunity. We do not have to interpret that it is an expense – which will be – but that, moreover, it must be an expense that must serve us precisely to lower the energy bill that we have at these times in our country. With one exception: there is a share of money reserved for vulnerable families who do not have the money to be able to make these renovations. Unfortunately, these aids will have to be controlled, because, as I say, they mark us as having to rehabilitate sixty thousand habitats. Therefore, we must be able to make up for it. But we will also allocate money because people who are more vulnerable can also access this remodeling. And the twenty-i-five percent of the dwellings, reserved for young people. So, thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need for a new just financing]] [[302-0003/13]] And let's move on to the next item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government about the need for a new just financing, which the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can put forward. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego. [[Pause.]] To the limit, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.18.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.19.0	Remember the deputies that the obligation to attend the plenary is for all the deputies, and the obligation to go as the plenary evolves is also the responsibility of the deputies, because when there are groups that do not use the replica turn, it can be predicted. In any case, if the Member is not present in the Chamber, they also know that the initiative is declining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.20.0	Okay. Ouch. [[Rialles.]] I have to take the time to breathe.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.21.0	I'll stop it, I'll stop the time. Breathe, we don't have a disgust here now, please. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.22.0	It's just that I'm not as fit as I was... [[Rialles.]] Well, then, good morning to all of you. Let's introduce the motion. From the outset, thank Congresswoman Eulàlia Reguant and Congressmen Joan Riba, Ernest Maragall, Ramon Tremosa and Ignacio Martín Blanco for their presentations. I think it helps to know each group's position on the motion. One moment, I breathe, that... [[Rialles the pauses.]] Well, let's get started. To thank, as I said, the Members of Parliament for the reports they have submitted. They help to know the position of each group, and therefore improve the debate and have to help build collective proposals. The reports believe that they have allowed us to see that it is easier than we sometimes think to build, if we want, a joint proposal, of broad consensus, which translates into what the majority of Catalan society considers important: to improve the financing system of the Generalitat. We share a good part of the diagnosis, and I think that when we share what we need to change, it is possible and relatively easier to build a proposal to transform the reality that we don't like. [[The orator breathes with difficulty.]] Unfortunately, however, the difficulties in moving forward like the country have also been demonstrated, as a result of the competitive relationship that government partners keep open. Along with the virtuous competition of the parties that we set up the Government of the State, where the difference of positions on certain issues is transparent and argued but does not invalidate or paralyze the action of government, as we see every day, the Government of Catalonia remains paralyzed in the action for a competition that is based on taking advantage of the difference to compete in a shared electoral space. Maybe that's why I found myself. [[The clock continues breathing with difficulty]] With which the possibility of understanding with the deputies Tremosa or Maragall separately is converted into impossible when the need of the conseiller Giró's visa appeared, which would prefer to remain installed in which he expressed in the Ple passed rather than striving to work the consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.23.0	Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.24.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.25.0	If I want to get air and rest for a while, I'm really patenting. [[Rialles.]] I don't know about you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.26.0	I'm sorry, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.27.0	...but I... Agafi's a moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.28.0	Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.29.0	Yes, please. I think we'll all appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.30.0	It's just that I've come in currents, and of course...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.31.0	That's why, that's why. It's here. In the pateix. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.32.0	So – I'm sorry, huh? – said this, that I think we share a good part of the diagnosis, but that unfortunately we have found that the competence that government partners maintain makes it impossible, sometimes, to find consensus or build consensus, because in the measure that they look between them and highlight differences, this has made it difficult to find consensus. But I think that, despite that, we have been able to put into evidence that we share the diagnosis. We share the Diagnosis that Catalonia's financing is insufficient and limits the fiscal sovereignty exercise; that the current model does not guarantee fiscal co-responsibility; that, following the opacity of the system, following the capitalization effect, following the bad design of the tax system, fiscal dumping corrodes the system, breaks solidarity and opens a dangerous way of defiscalization that puts in danger the maintenance of the welfare state. The current system is little transparent and maintains perverse distribution criteria that question the principle of ordinaryity. The model is expired, I want to review it. And we need funding from Catalonia that corrects limits and contradictions. I believe that, in this diagnosis, all the groups that have submitted papers agree. We share diagnostics. Where's the problem? The problem is whether we have to wait for someone to take the initiative or we can force, from the consensus, building a joint proposal that, from the diagnostic, solutions proposals, plant the finance model change that allows just, sufficient and supportive financing for Catalonia. We believe that this new funding is urgently needed today. The pandemic has changed life, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the world. We urgently need just funding for Catalonia, just and sufficient funding. We need to get out of sterile criticism, this model we don't like. There have also been proposals that generate broad consensus, consensus diagnostics, proposals that can be agreed. We need a proper record – we agree – that we have fiscal sovereignty. And we need enough funding. You can build a consensual proposal. We agree that Catalonia's financing must be supported in fiscal co-responsibility, starting from a minimum tax land of the taxes we receive. We don't want privileges, but we need tax dumping and defiscalizing practices. We want and need solidarity, but this must be based on a transparent and simplified approach based on equal fiscal effort and which respects the principle of regularity. We want the Catalonia Tax Agency to be the only window that manages taxation in Catalonia, and we want it to be coordinated and collaborative with the State and the European Union, consorting to ensure transparency, to fulfil commitments, to pursue fraud. We believe that there have been enough calls to build a useful proposal for the people of Catalonia, for the people who need just, sufficient and solidary funding. Because the common people the only one they have is the guarantee of well-equipped and well-managed public services for the administrations that guarantee them equality and rights, and to make it better for us to finance. And to do so, it is better to build a proposal from the consensus, which translated the expressed will for this seventy-two percent of the citizenry that values it as an important thing and so demands. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.33.0	Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.34.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... Mr Gallego, you are bringing to us today the parliamentary group of the commons a proposal that seems to us to be in a lot of disarrayed aspects. From the point of view of the debate on autonomous financing, we agree that, effectively, autonomous financing is something that should be reviewed. It should be reviewed because it is not only in Catalonia, but at the conjunct of the autonomous communities, it is in the conjunct of Spain. It's a system that should have been reviewed, if I don't remember badly, 2014 and we're still waiting for it to be reviewed. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that you are very right to ask that, indeed, it is reviewed. But I'm worried about the fact that a game that is called "lefts" assumes some of the assumptions that characterise straight or even extreme right games, such as the North League in Italy. When you speak of the principle of ordinaryity that should preside over our financing system, what you are doing, basically, is assuming that a worker, a working class person from other parts of Spain, must have a lower finance than the workers or the working class of Catalonia can have. I am concerned that a left-wing party, when a union makes a flag of this supposed fiscal sovereignty that they demand for our community, and that it seems that it cares little about solidarity or fraternity with the rest of the workers of Spain's joint..., I think, I insist, that it is an argument more propitious to parties, let us say, to fall right, or even, in some other countries, an argument, therefore, overtly unsolidar, because it does not take into account, precisely, solidarity between workers. This horizontal annihilation that is required for a democratic state that is truly a guarantor of equality between its citizens, a democratic state that wants the assembly of its citizens to be seen in circumstances or conditions similar to the whole of Spain, to the whole of Spain, to the whole territory of our country... I believe that this is not compatible with this claim to establish a principle of ordinaryity, that what it does, basically, is to preserve the economy of the workers or working classes of Catalonia, which is absolutely not important to what happens to the working classes of the rest of Spain. I always remember that interterritorial solidarity is a constitutional principle for which we have to age, as in politics, Catalonia and Spain, and that the principle of ordinaryity is hardly compatible with federal formulas, with formulas that recognize the condition of Spain as a composite state in which there are various public administrations. But, I insist, what is essential is that there is a defence of the equality of the citizens' group and that the financing per capita is equal to the whole of Spain, is equal to a city that lives in Extremadura, Andalusia, Catalonia or the Basque Country. This, for us, as the Liberal Party, is a matter of substance. And that's why we don't understand that a party that's saying 'left', that's saying that it pursues solidarity, that it pursues fraternity, that it pursues equality between citizens..., seems totally contradictory to us that it's defending proposals like the principle of ordinaryity. From this point of view, beyond the defense of the reform of the autonomous financing system... And that's why we defend whenever the councilman, whom we have here, the Mr. Giró, is present at all the meetings he has to see with the possible reform of the financing system, to demand the two great parties of the national sphere, both the PSOE and the PP, to do their work. Its job is, effectively, to reform the autonomous financing system, but because it is a truly just system for the conjunction of the Spanish citizens. Which must simply age these parties and the political forces together, for the equality between citizens; not for the privileges of a territory, but for the equality between citizens. And another thing that has left us and which seems to us to be truly contradictory to your proposal, Mr Gallego, is, precisely, the fact of speaking of Madrid as a community that is a tax haven. That's definitely fake. We all have the same capacity, the same autonomy. And some who defend autonomy... now he was talking to a person who knows a little bit about this, and he reminded me of what he would say, for example, Trias Fargas about the fiscal autonomy of autonomous communities. Catalonia has fiscal autonomy to do what it does, and, unfortunately, we have the autonomous government that more taxes it has. We are the citizens of Spain that we pay the most taxes, the citizens of Catalonia, and this is through the work and thanks of the Government of the Generality, the responsibility of my friend, my companion, Mr. Giró. Therefore, from this point of view, the criticism I believe should go further than the Government of the Generality and follow the nationalist discourse. The fiscal autonomy that the Community of Madrid has in order to make a policy of less bureaucracy, of more reasonable and sensible taxes, more balanced, could do it perfectly in Catalonia. Another thing is that there is no will, because there is a will to prioritize investments that are totally outside of what are the general interests of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.35.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words of Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... In this young man we have two parts: the part of the findings and the part in which the government takes decisions. With regard to the first part, there are elements in which we, from our group, have nuances, without any doubt, but we are already making progress on them, both on one side and on the other, we would mostly vote in favour of this young man's agreements, beyond the nuances. However, we would like to make it clear that the essential elements of the motion are located in the fifth and sixth points, if you wish, of the motion, in the area in which it is proposed the creation of a study commission to draw up a proposal for a new autonomous financing and the derivative of this, which is to coordinate us with the coming communities of Valencia – the Valencian Community – and Balears. And we express our agreement especially in this point of view that the manifestation of Parliament's will respects the need to work on having a proposal from Catalonia in the proper negotiation and elaboration process of a new autonomous financing. Autonomic new financing is one of the most important issues we have on the political agenda at these times, and probably, or with all certainty, in this legislature. For this reason we believe that it is absolutely essential that Catalonia formulate and propose an autonomous financing proposal, and that this is done with the greatest possible consensus. Counselor, in this sense we will celebrate enormously what you said to the interview that you did on December 19th in a media outlet, in which you said that you wanted to negotiate the new model of financing, that you kept your..., did not renounce the sovereignism, which we consider very legitimate, but we understand that it was an unequivocal expression and an explicit acceptance that today what we have before us, in a real and tangible way, is the need for a new model of autonomous financing to be adopted and that this responds to the need for just and sufficient funding for Catalonia. And getting to negotiate inevitably means holding a position. And, therefore, this proposal for the creation of a committee goes this way: to have a proposal from which to negotiate. However, the joy lasted a little. Your answer to the previous question in this motion was absolutely, in our opinion, disappointing, not because of the discrepancies respect what you said – which you also said – but because of the feeling of apathy, of abatement. « They correspond to the Government in Madrid. Do so, that they govern Spain, he told us, asking precisely the groups of commons and the PSC. He also complained about not including some issues in the later bilateral commission. We saw a little energetic advisor, little ambition, and we would like to have an economic advisor in our country with a positive political attitude, not abstinence. The surprise of the case is that, in the few days that have passed between the past plenary and today, we have seen as many of the issues that you have raised in order to justify this negative or this feeling or have resolved or have advanced a lot. I refer to the outcome of the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs and Fiscal Affairs. Last week you went to Madrid to negotiate with the Government of the State. I, along with not making it happen, returned with 695_millions– some, disparately, would say with the full cove – respect to the subject of the Mossos and respect to the third additional provision. And that's why we're happy. In fact, what we are asking you today is that you and the government are persevering in this political position: negotiation, collaboration and coordination with state institutions. It is not the same as governing some or governing others in Spain. We see this in the results of these meetings, but we also see that it is important for you to follow, for you to negotiate. In order to give some examples, you did not attend the conference of the Fiscal Policy Council in 2020, where it was decided to relax the debt measures. Someone else decided for us. On July 2021, in Salamanca, you did not attend the conference of presidents. It was decided on the purchase of 3.3 million cows and on the management of the Next Generation funds among the communities. On the other hand, 2021 you attended, Mr. Counsellor, the meeting that was produced, in which you agreed to the increment of the floor of deficit up to 0.7_per_cent, even though after that they only made use of a 0.3. Or, as I said, you met her this past week from the joint committee. That's why we tell him: negotiate, coordinate as at last week's joint meeting. It is necessary for him to exercise his responsibilities with loyalty in the areas of coordination and negotiation of a composite and decentralized state with Spain. It's nothing to do, as it was done in the joint committee, and we get no tangible results. And that's what they do in the negotiation of the new funding model. And it doesn't matter if, more than that, you also recognize it openly and uncomplex. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.37.0	It's the turn, now, of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win. Mrs Eulàlia Reguant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.38.0	Well, good morning, counselor. Planting a new financing model for us seems necessary, yes, but not on the line of which this young man poses. There is no just possible funding model within the current state framework, within the political framework imposed by the state, a political framework that what it does, day after day, is moving forward towards re-centralisation. And we see it today with the debate on housing law, that in the background what it does is refocusing of new competitions. Therefore, yes, new funding model; not in the political and economic framework imposed by the State. And talking about the finance model is also talking about wealth redistribution. And when we talk about wealth redistribution, we don't just talk about taxes, do we? It's funny: Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco seemed to defend the working class, when his liberal party, which drives liberal policies, is pushing policies against the working class and in favour of the elites. But, go on, sometimes the debates surprise you. When we talk about redistribution of wealth, we talk about rights and we talk about right to housing. And, therefore, redistributing the wealth is also today talking about public housing, which is impossible in the current state, because we see how systematically all the laws that are driven from here are falling from a bit progressive. Or talking about basic sub-administrations is also talking about redistribution of wealth, right? And so, when we talk about the financing model, we need to talk about all this, talk about a redistribution of wealth, that every time it's fairer and more equalizing. And in the current legal and political framework of the State this is impossible. In the background – let's not be fooled – the debate about the new funding model is what it seeks to put together a much deeper debate, which is the debate of the sovereignty of this country. Therefore, we say: "Let us not deceive and deceive the people, let us not cheat. When it turns out we can't talk about self-determination..., and you can't talk about self-determination in the dialog table, but you can't talk about self-determination in this Parliament. If not, let me ask the President of Parliament, the current Councillor for Enterprise and Work, Roger Torrent, Mr Josep Costa, Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós and Mrs Adriana Delgado, who will be judged to speak of self-determination in this Parliament. As I said, we cannot talk about self-determination either in this Parliament or in the dialog table, and in the background what we do is to use the funding model to store this debate. We convert the debate on the financing model as the debate of the Mediterranean Corridor, a debate that is always there, and it is always there because it is never resolved. And, as it's never resolved, it's always on the table, and it's always interesting to approach it, but in the background it's because it's not resolved, because it didn't want to solve it, as I said, with the dynamics of the state, re-entering. That's why we, in this young man, will give some support to it, in others we will abstain and in others we will vote against it, because we understand that they are storing the real debate, which is about the sovereignty of this country. And one thing: there is political sobriety, economic sobriety, fiscal sobriety, food and energy. I can't talk about more sobriety: the sobriety, whether or not it is, it's not dull. And there is currently no fiscal sovereignty in Catalonia. And what's important is that there's fiscal sovereignty and economic sovereignty, like one of the pots to get full sovereignty. That's why we say that the Catalan countries need a national economy and economic policy, girls from here, defenses from here. That is why we defended political independence and economic sovereignty as strategic objectives of the national struggle. And we understand that the purpose of a new funding model is to achieve a strategy to reinforce the legitimate, autonomous model, but that it is not ours, and therefore it is an objective that is not a process of self-determination and national construction. That's why we don't share it. We understand that talking about a new funding model is talking about a fair tax, and that's the one that makes the most of the ones they have. And that's why we're defending that we can fight the tax policy, yes, at the same time and with the same strength as the Catalan tax fraud and that the current fiscal policies, driven also from Catalonia, that are neoliberal fiscal policies. That is why we are in favour of a national political alternative based on national construction and social transformation. And that's why we say again: against tax havens in the State, to the European Union or wherever – against tax havens. That is why we will vote in the end in favour of point 7, which we have tabled, the same way that we will vote in favour of point 2, which speaks of fiscal and economic sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.39.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.40.0	Thank you, President. To see, effectively, there is consensus in the concept of departure, in the diagnosis: the current system of financing is a disaster and does not allow to face nor solve any of the problems that we have today in Catalonia. And, in fact, it is urgent that we resolve it. We have an opaque, outdated system that interprets itself with arbitrariness, which offends Catalonia and the Islands and the Valencia Country. I said the Valencia Institute for Economic Research, which clearly explains how the group of autonomous communities of common rule lost almost a dotze_per_cent of their entries between 2009 and 2015. Real fiscal federalism works only when fiscal responsibility, the ability to generate revenue, is correlated with competition responsibility, and, therefore, with the obligation to spend. That is, a history based on full fiscal sovereignty; if not, we're talking about something else. Today we do not only have a horizontal distribution problem between autonomous communities; we also, and above all, have a vertical division problem, between the State, the Central Administration, for one band, and the autonomous limitations of the common regime, for another. And this is where there is the glaring distortion between competitive bonds, associated spending and available tickets. With the current financing system that is gaining – I say it clearly – it is the State, and this gain is directly reversed in the macrocephaly project of Gran Madrid. Today we read a news story that clearly illustrates: an entity like Unicaja is about to transfer its own to Madrid. Run away from Barcelona? No, no, Marxant de Málaga, the great urban star of southern Espanya. I think the picture is pretty clear. Therefore, we can agree on the diagnosis, but it is obvious that we differ in which is the solution and which is the treatment that this deserves. We don't, as the company of the commons tell us, have a unique and solidary history because Catalonia didn't ask for it? We don't have it, as they say, so why don't we coordinate with Valencia and the Islands enough? Let's see if I get this straight: you come to tell us seven years after the current funding model comes into effect, almost three years after you govern with the PSOE? Now they find out that it is this Parliament that has to work on the proposal for a new financing that has been waiting for the country for years? I understand that you're comfortable with the role they play. You, as members of the Spanish Government, effectively represent..., exhibit the shame of a state unable to offer a model of coexistence respecting its peoples and nations: corrupt monarchy, widespread repression... This is the State that you today, like it or not, represent. You have all the tools to change that status quo. Take the initiative to transform this failed state and we will accompany them. But no, they don't come to explain to us what they are proposing to change all this; they come to ask us to resolve their inhibition, to cover with our initiative their silence and their escape from systematically at the time of facing the open and recognizable conflict between the Catalan society and the institutions of the State. Do they claim that we are following those who put on the agenda of the negotiating table a proposal for a new financing model so that we do not have to talk about amnesty and self-determination? No, no, Exactly not. Let's be clear: if we don't have Catalan history today, it's because the State's first political force has no interest in this and certainly for the conditions of majority political balance in Spanish institutions. Here there is only one solution, which is the explicit recognition of the exercise of the right to self-determination. And that's why our papers were in the line of working on the search for a solution, urgent, necessary, but making it clear that it is the responsibility of the State to lead the way to this more just system. That they have not been accepted, in any case, explains their little interest in moving forward in a really useful way. That is why today we can only vote on the message we have given, precisely because I critically describe the current situation. Don't worry: the day the Spanish Government decides to comply with its obligation they will find us prepared, they will find us with arguments, with reasons, with proposals; not naive or submissive, not to forget or postpone our majority will, in no case to let go of the open conflict that can only be resolved by the free and democratic decision of the 7.5_million men and women willing to debate, consider and vote on our future political and institutional. Think about your role in this period. They confirm their position in favour of Catalonia expressing its free political decision, which corresponds to us as a political subject, as well as the citizenry which holds inalienable rights and freedoms, as has certainly been reiterated by the current Minister Joan Subirats. Follow this path. If they do, we'll work together and actually move forward. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.41.0	And, finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Lord Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable councillor, deputies and deputies... well, in Comú Puermos presents today a motion on autonomous finance. We share the diagnosis and also part of the solution to Catalonia's sovereignty. Unfortunately, the lack of time – you sent us yesterday late some agreements that we didn't have time to manage with the coalition, etc. – couldn't afford today to give it the support we wanted. But know that, as Ernest Maragall has said now, when it's time, if it's that moment. Well, Catalonia's funding model has expired since 2014, and that's not the Generality's fault, that's the central government's responsibility. The LOFCA – the organic financing law of autonomous communities – has expired eight years ago, and this objectively harms all Catalans. For example, today Catalonia has almost 500,000 more people than the year 2014, and that makes us penalized. Every day this penalty increases: we have fewer resources to hire more teachers, more teachers, more social policies. And so... in Madrid we have been told so many times these last years: "We have to comply with the law, "We have to live within the law... Very well. And the LOFCA, when it hurts the Catalans... it doesn't happen, if the weeks, the months, the years go by, and we accumulate historical debts. Certainly, its focus of historical debts, channel it through the commission of the deputy Joan Canadell, so that we do not fall into an inflation of commissions in this house – there was a commission of historical debt... It seems to me very good that the Spanish government is planning to pay the debt to the Valencian, historical, accumulated country, as it has done in the past in Andalusia, but what a great deal that never happens in Catalonia. See... so good, if we can get something like this. We share the diagnosis. The Catalonian Parliament notes that the current system is a outdated, obsolete, opaque, transparent model. And, in fact, this is the cause for which, therefore, the political landscape in Catalonia has changed since the debate of the new Statute. You know that, in 2005, one hundred and twenty Members of this Parliament voted for a new statute that gave the Sovereign Tax Administration, which you are asking for in general. That is to say, the Generalita collects all taxes; then we will negotiate the quota to pay with the solidarity that it convinces, in the terms that it convinces, but... And that state that Catalan socialists voted and so did Initiative, so it went as it went: it went to the Congress of Deputies and it went to the Constitutional. And we're on a path, from that day on, where the catalâ problem is the elephant in the room. I mean, here at the middle there's an elephant, which some people like to see is not there, but it's marked all the choices we've made since the year 2010 until today. And, besides, with an independence that had held three deputies in this house and that now has seventy-four and has exceeded fifty per cent of the votes. And, according to the vagina things, it's going to go to more. Despite us, it will go further, because the objective causes of discrimination increase day by day. And, listen, to finish... I win from the academic world. Let's talk about federalism, which is possibly one of the most prostituted words in Catalonia's political debate. Do you know how it is defined in three words "federalism from public history, from academia? "Federalism means that regional governments take back the big taxes. In other words, the academic definition of "federalism" is not just the regional governments that spend, but rather the great taxes. This is why there are many international publications – of the OECD, for example, of the International Monetary Fund, academics, etc. – in which Spain is classified as a centralist country with partially decentralised and federal public expenditure in the case of the Basque Country and Navarre. The question is why we cannot have a financing system like that of the Basque Country and Navarre. This is why, after the PP, it is said: "Spain is the most decentralized country in the world, so this is one of the biggest news stories, if we pass the thirst of the analysis of what the academy says, of what the university says, of what the public record says about what federalism is. And finally, before I came I entered the library and took this book: The tax balances of the Autonomous Communities, written by Antoni Castells and other academics. It was Rodrigo Rato, the year 2000, who gave Spanish academics the information to make this book. In this book, in one page there is the fiscal balance, in thirty pages there is the methodology and all the rest are proofs, ministries by ministries, general direction by general direction, province by province, of the public expenditure and of the public investment actually realized. I is spectacular: Catalunya, zero; Madrid, spectacular. We haven't had transparency since that day. As the Spanish government matured its proposal, we set the light in the dark. You can publish your fiscal balances from Madrid, as Zapatero did in 2008. Thank you very much. And so much so that we find this legislature the solution and in the next few years we don't have to enter the commons with new Members of Parliament a young man like whom we will vote today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.43.0	He finished the defense round of the papers, has the word continuously, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.44.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Today In Comú Pomero presents a motion for the Government of Spain, therefore, to change the model of financing of Catalonia. Well, are you part of the Government of Spain or not? Why not explain to your friends in Madrid this tale of milk that they bring us here today without success? – it is obvious that without success, they do not pay attention to them. It is clear that they come here to do an exercise in "beautiful house-marking", but that it does not serve anything at all. If they really wanted to change things, then, in the end, there are a few ministers who are of their political colour to whom they could explain these positions. Positions that, of course, we do not share from our political group, do we? But, well, since we are invited to talk about this issue, I will explain to you what we think, what VOX thinks about this issue. We believe that all Spaniards must be equal before the law – all equal – and that they enjoy the same public services; therefore, that they have the same funding system. It's pretty simple. We are not going to enter into this multi-level model that you raise in this motion, and we are not going to defend a financial model that differentiates citizens of the first and citizens of the second. We want a Spain without distinctions or internal borders as a guarantee to guarantee the prosperity and well-being of all, solidarity between all the territories and regions of Spain for the optimal functioning of the Administration and strengthening the links between all the territories of Spain. We bet on the principle of subsidiarity: more funding for the municipalities, more funding for the parliaments, and less for the autonomous communities, which have become disloyal taifas that waste public money. And Catalonia is a clear example. We've talked many times here about how much we spend on quirks of doubt or no social impact, haven't we? We must therefore free the Catalans from this inefficient structure. We're not about the idea of more money for Catalonia, we're about the idea of more money for Catalans. The shade is no less. As I said before: more municipalities, more parliaments. Someone was talking, throughout the morning, wasn't they? ..., he said: "Hey, of course, since 2014 the financing system has not been reformed. Man, of course, with a Catalonian Generalitat thrown into the mountains, threatening to break Spain in two, with a coup d'état in progress, with a process in progress, with a 1-O that ended with all its heads in prison... Man, therefore, difficult context to negotiate a financing model, right? Some things have also surprised us about the motion. From communist positions I am surprised that they defend different privileges, right? between one territory and another. They do more separatists in this motion than communists. I believe that you must be the only communists in the world who defend the principle of ordinality. If anyone teaches me, I... will say, "I don't know, for I was wrong, too. It's okay, hey, I'm wrong, I can recognize it. But I really believe that there is no communist in the world, except you, who are here in the Parliament of Catalonia, who defends the principle of ordinality, because it is quite the opposite of that so cuddled from the redistribution of wealth. You're a real contradiction with legs, aren't you? That is to say: "We are not about public finances, "we are not about these dialogue tables – which in the end are blackmail tables – "or about attacking those regions that use the same regulatory capacity as us to be more competitive, even to collect more... That is to say, I think they are on the wrong track, if they are still out there. We are not going to reinforce this motion with our affirmative vote, the story that in the end is still derived from the « Spain robs us. Nor do we understand, frankly, why the financing approach brings you here with such sensitivity with Valencia and the Balearic Islands. What, that Murcia has no funding problems? Does Andalusia have no funding problems? Does Galicia have no funding problems? Well, they're all the same. What's going on, which, well, is true, they're not part of the pan-Catalanist movement. But really, it's okay, you could pose... maybe, if you talk to some bat, you could even come to the same conclusion as you. I mean, I don't know why they mix pancatalanism with the food stuff. Finally, we will vote absolutely against all the points, because we do not intend to see you seem friendly to the separatists. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.45.0	It has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.46.0	Thank you, President. Well, this is a young woman who has points, and already advance that we can only vote favorably on the first one, where it is generically said that Catalonia, and not only Catalonia, but all the autonomous communities, need a different model of financing. Actually, we didn't give the support that's in place right now, and now I'm talking about it. And I will do so because, before I enter into the matter of the reasons for which the rest of the points, the remaining nine points, seem inviable to us, I think it is necessary to make a little historical retrospective. From the beginning of the democratic stage, after the Transition, we could say that three major agreements on financing between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities have been made autonomously. The first was to boost the year 93, which, above all, stood out for the fame, at that time, fifteen_per_cent of the IRPF, and was driven by the socialist government. The second year, the year 96-97, which involved, already with the government of José María Aznar, the cessation of the thirty_per_cent of the IRPF plus the special taxes. And, then, the still in force, which is from the year 2009, and which they signed the tripartite with the support of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, which held discrepancies at that time with its coalition partners, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. The first question is, beyond whether it was possible to extend or to renew this agreement..., what we need to remember is that its drivers– is to say, Initiative for Catalonia, Republican Left and Socialist Party – they described that financing agreement as historic, wonderful and fantastic. Therefore, they surprise a little that you disauthorize the lords Montilla, Puigcercós and company in such a cruel way, because the truth is that they have said authentic barbarities of the model that you yourself pushed. But, well, anyway, this coherence thing is obviously not going with you. Well, those three financing agreements can please you more or less – I'm saying we didn't give support to what you now say is so terrible – but one thing to say: they were constitutional and they were legal. And, therefore, pleasant or not, between the mark of the autonomous state recognized to the Constitution, it could develop a financing agreement in this line. What's going on is that the person who puts the young man beyond this first point, who is generic and who everyone – not just Catalonia – could support, the rest is absolutely impossible. Basically, for three reasons – there are many more, but he has the time he has. First, the autonomous community has its own sovereignty on the margins of national sovereignty that recedes the Constitution and resides in the Spanish people. Another thing is that you have all the right of the world to wish it was different. They can institute a constitutional reform, go to the Congress of Deputies and see how they do, as that said, but what they cannot do is confuse desires with reality. And the fact of posing in a young man that Catalonia has fiscal sovereignty will not mean that he has it, because he doesn't have it. There is only one way, and it is: a constitutional reform, which obviously does not have the majority to be promoted. Therefore... the same goes with the own history: the autonomous Spanish community can have a own history disconnected from the Spanish heritage. And that can also change you, well, you can try, but I'm afraid you won't have to go too far. The second question is that there are no tax havens in Spain. The Community of Madrid scrupulously complements its autonomous powers when it lowers its own taxes. Certainly, it is Catalonia, when it creates us, which has not always complied with the law. I think it's enough to complete the law by lowering taxes than by failing to do it by creating it from us. Each school has its own model, but there are no tax havens in Spain. The third question is that pure ordinality is inviable. Do you hear it doesn't apply to physical people? I haven't seen a list of, after paying taxes... if any of us go from being the city to 25 million, I don't know what, with more resources, or we lose positions on that list, after paying taxes. In the same way that it does not apply to physical persons, it is impossible to ask it for the territories. Another thing – which is more reasonable – is that concretely five autonomous communities, which are Balears, Madrid, Valencia, Catalonia and Galicia, which appear worse in the race and positions..., can look for a model that intends to optimize this. That would come from the constitutional margin, but you don't want to talk about these things. You make consciously illegal and therefore inviolable plantings. And, therefore, if they are illegal, it is very difficult to be able to talk about it and reach an agreement with a young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.47.0	And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.48.0	Well, then thank all the interventions. I see that we share the diagnostic, substantively with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia – with the PSC – with the Republican Left, with Juntes for Catalonia and also in good part with the CUP. I see that we also share proposals with the PSC, with the Republican Left, with Junts per Catalunya, to a lesser extent also with the CUP. I see that we do not share the will to create a committee of studies where we can delve into this shared diagnosis and delve into a joint proposal from Catalonia that makes us strong before a possible negotiation of a new model of financing with the State. And we do not share the willingness to coordinate with the Valencian and the Balearic Islands, which have, I think, a similar diagnosis to ours for what it does to the financing model. It's a big deal, because I think it would be possible. When we share the diagnosis and share a good part of the proposals, the best we could do would be to go together, because we would give an answer to what a good part of Catalonia's citizenship wants, which is a just, sufficient and supportive financing model. And it's possible, we have proposals that move forward on this line. And we insist that it is very important and it would be very important for us to create this committee of studies to make a joint proposal. And I want to do that too, say, to put in value the record of two people who left us a few days ago. One is in Pau Riba. And Pau Riba says it in a song that makes it very clear to us. Says: "Oh, that long is always the hope/ when it is expected that the worse/ and sad is the long wait/ when it is expected that love will die/ when it is expected that it will all be over/ to start again/ when it is expected that in the world it will sink/ to build again. / It's long, it's long to wait! / And they're slow in the mornings and in the afternoons/ when he waits and unravels the negit. / And it's gray fans and lenses in the afternoons/ because you feel your color sour. Stop waiting, get us to work. Let's get them to Pau Riba, get them to work. [[applause]] to build and transform reality. And so too with the words that in Lluís Romero, the old militant of the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia, founder of the Commissions, left us written in the motto of this cartel, where it made it very clear [[the orator shows a folder to the camera]] : « My hands, my capital. There's enough to cry about how badly we are, how much victims we are in front of the oppressive State. They put us to work. We take our hands, we take our hands, we build a proposal, we agree it, that it is possible, because we share diagnostics and we share a good part of the proposals of a first, just, sufficient and solidary history for Catalonia, and we put ourselves to work, that it is possible. And we would do a good favor to a lot of Catalonian citizens, who expect the Government of Catalonia to give answers to their material and social service problems, which is, in short, most of the skills that we have and can execute in favor of the people, of the current people, that the only one you have is this, the willingness to have a government that serves you and is useful. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.49.0	I am pleased that you have recovered – we have seen it – Mr Gallego. Thanks for the quote from Pau Riba. I'm telling you, after the debate, this young man's vote is going to do this noon, once the new point of the order of the day is solid. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the funding exclusion]] [[302-00106/13]] Let us now turn to the debate on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the financial exclusion, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And you have the word, to give us the presentation, Mr. Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Giró, deputies and deputies, public who follow us. Well, in this case, a few weeks ago, the counselor asked, "Whether the pandemic has manifested or accentuated, it is a subject that our country, since 2008, with the financial crisis, has been aggravating. Let's talk about bank desertion, which therefore involves financing exclusion. And, as I explained on the day of the inquiry, we have seen, these two years, as many citizens and citizens, come from the restriction of face visits or from the restriction, as we say, of face offices, it was found that they were not accustomed to digitization, they were not accustomed to the service that technology allows, but that the citizens still do not access it. And this was accompanied, as we say, by the disappearance of offices resulting from bank mergers and the financial crisis, as we say, 443 municipalities in our country, Catalonia, which affect some 250,000 citizens, so they suffer this risk, or it is no longer a risk, but they do not pay it. Banking is not just a commercial act. The banking services, the willingness to do business, being able to operate with their own money, are a real right of the citizenry, and, in this case, as the European Union itself recognized in 2014, when they said that banking services are, as we say, essential services, such as the light, such as access to drinking water, such as access to keystroke. And so, in this sense, we defend ourselves..., and with this reason what we do is to try to move forward in the proposal of law that the Councillor explained to us a few weeks ago, because we need to move forward with legislation because all citizens have access, as we say, to a non-essential right, but it is fundamental, that they can access their own money, they can access it, and therefore turn it into a basic service. This leads us to an exclusion, as we say, to finance, but it also leads us to a geographic exclusion. These 443 municipalities that we have in our country, Catalonia..., basically affects small municipalities, and basically affects municipalities many times also in the Pirineu area. And, therefore, many times, when we talk about depopulation..., the other day – yesterday – that a question is asked about micropopulations..., so precisely are the people affected by this phenomenon, who have restricted their banking offices, restricted their caixers, because the banking entities consider it a strictly commercial operation, and, therefore, it is not profitable, and, in turn, do not consider it an essential service for citizenship. Therefore, this financial exclusion also causes a geographic exclusion, and as I explained on the day of the inquiry, we enter the fish that moves the cua. Menys servi: less opportunities, less population; less economic activities: less job opportunities. And, therefore, the financial services also come into this wheel which made very small towns, made very small territories of Catalonia, and, therefore, carries an imbalance, therefore carries the difference of population: that which he lives in urban areas and that which he lives in small towns or in remote areas. Therefore, with this motion we do, as we say, is to make a proposal, a proposal in place, and, therefore, we say, therefore, to support this proposal of law, which, as I also explained and explained to us by the counselor, we do not have the capacity to legislate ourselves from Catalonia and, therefore, a proposal has to be made because the Central State laws, because the banks have to give compliment to this essential service that is the financial service. And I also remember that this is not only an affect to the great people, it is also an affect, as we say, to many citizens, large and small, of different ages, of small municipalities, but also to people who have not had an opportunity to their life of basic digital training or even financing, or also to collects who have difficulty in moving's, to move from towns, or who have, at all, collections with different capacities; therefore, it affects a lot of the citizens of our country. I, therefore, with the legislators, with Parliament, it is up to us to find solutions. And in this case, the solution..., which has its competence is the Central State and, therefore, we must do so that this proposal of law is made to defend the citizens, as we say, from a basic service, which is access to their financial capacity, to their money. I also said, on the day of the inquiry – and I finish – that it is not just access to physical money, it is also access, therefore, to an extract, access to a certificate, access to many bank documents that are private, private, but that many citizens do not have access to it and ask for it, if it requires for many submissions that they make with the assemblies, with social welfare, with the schools, for scholarships, to help, for the poor energy..., for a thousand submissions it calls for banking documentation to which they do not have access and, therefore, this also causes exclusion from citizenship in many respects. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.51.0	Now the word to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.52.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, lords of Junts per Catalunya..., because digitization was not this, it is not..., it is not this: they are not phones that never answer, or you expect endless on the street, it is cold or hot, or almost impossible journeys to the nearest cashier, or even passive attitudes or some contempt for questions more than coherent and understandable, or answers of the kind« it is you who must do what or « must do what on the web; in addition, let us not forget, that many times they have been going to the same banking entity, many times to the same office, where they have deposited the savings of a lifetime and where they have made or made many times the most important financial decisions of their life. The digital divide exists. And if we are not able to understand what the real problem is and propose effective solutions, all those who do not have to have access to effective digital literacy, or who do not want to change their way of relating to their bank, will end up paying the consequences of an inability, ours, to solve real and real problems. We are accentuating problems in a collective – that of our elders – which is already, in itself – and more after the pandemic – vulnerable. And what do you present us here? What is the text presented here? Well, honestly, the absolute nothingness. They do not need to ask their advisers, in fact, to whitewash certain disabilities, and they do not need to bring us empty motions, which are certainly an insult to what our elders really demand. You, for starters, focus the problem on the lack of cashiers in our peoples, on the territorial imbalance, as you have mentioned before, banking desertification and exclusion. And they stay there. When the real problem is the comprehensive service that many older people, without access to adequate training, receive from banks. They talk about working on inclusion proposals, but what proposals? There's not a single proposal. I mean, can we know exactly, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, what do you propose? They continue in their motion, in their attempt to resolve..., they continue to say that they will continue to work – they continue to say that they will continue to work – to comply with a resolution adopted in this Parliament. Really? Do you think we're fools? A resolution that is already empty of content, whose point d is then repeated in point 2 of its own motion. Have you read the motion before registering it? Because, moreover, if one continues to read the motion, he discovers that point 3 is almost identical to point 1, which was already in itself a point of no use, the one he commented on earlier, to 'continue. I mean, you take the motion and try to understand what you're saying and really, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, if you don't want to make a motion or you don't want to propose anything, it's not necessary, it's not mandatory that you bring here a proposal to try to solve a problem that, honestly, is serious and serious. Look, I'm going to comment on some things that I think we should talk about in this Parliament... which, in fact, is recorded in a motion for a resolution that we will be discussing at the time in committee, I understand that of Enterprise. Ciutadans has presented in several municipalities and municipalities, in fact, motions unanimously adopted in many cases, which go beyond, concrete measures, which already urge local governments and the Government of the Generalitat to take this problem seriously. Measures such as the abolition of fees, the bonus of fees to bank entities to maintain this service; measures for opening time slots or specific services, with a relaxation of care; a public-private partnership training plan; the creation of a specific free phone; the implementation of cashiers adapted, easier to use, or the cataloguing as banks friendly to those entities committed to implementing these and many other measures that I do not have time to expose. So, gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, whenever you want to sit down, we're serious about this problem, and if what you want is to go through with your responsibilities, keep doing this, there's no problem, I guess in the end you'll have your political objectives, which is to whiten a problem that's real. But with us, of course, do not count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.53.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Pomera, has the words of Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.54.0	Well, good morning again. We share the recast and the background, say, of the proposal put to us by the Member, right? This proposal has to see, one way or another, with the initiative that we have already presented ourselves, and I think that some other group also has some related initiative, a few months ago, and which coincided with the demand that various organizations of large people – the Federation of Pensioners of Workers' Commissions, among others – came to us, alerting us to the problem of the financial exclusion that had been going on. In some cases, for issues related to digitization, but in others, too, coincide with the bank office lockdown and so on. It was not only a complaint from the great people, who pointed out the problem of digital brettxa, it was also a complaint that came to us from some municipalities, that they saw as the closing of banking offices also limited access to certain banking services; among them, also, the automatic boxer. Therefore, we share in the background what this young man says, to which we have been able to introduce some elements that I think are introducing some better, because they go beyond what he initially proposed. Because he was only addressing the problem of caixers, which is already good, but caixers are not the total solution to the problem. There's a real digital bretxa: that many people who need bank services can't get them because they don't give to the caixers, and they don't have the personalized attention because there's no office or phone service just feel like a robot answering you. I therefore believe that, through transactions, we have been able to introduce these items that point to a need to guarantee personalized attention, that is, physically, that is, by phone, and so on. We understand, however, that this motion for a motion also coincides and, somehow, has points of connection with the recent law that is still being debated, or that it is already approved, more so, by the Congress of Deputies, this law protecting the consumption of vulnerable people. I believe that this law of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs of the Government of the State, which protects vulnerable persons, already points out some questions that should allow the initiative that is presented today to be added to this will to define which are the mechanisms and instruments that allow people with major difficulties to have the knowledge needed to act, or to interact with banking technology, to have banking services. Therefore, look for the mechanisms that guarantee you the help or care that you allow you to do the necessary management. Therefore, we agree with the motion, but also from the point of view of people and the territory. Do not address today that there are territories of Catalonia in which basic services are being lost means that we are also contributing to the impoverishment. Therefore, correcting this means that we are trying to contribute to a greater balance, to a greater equity, also territorial. It is therefore important to ensure that the municipalities also have basic services from the point of view of financing. And he points out, somehow, the motion presented, on this line. We believe that somewhere it is insufficient, sure it will be better to improve it, but it can be guaranteed that the city has access to basic financial services from Catalonia. Because, unfortunately, without this access to the funded basic services, people will have limited their full social inclusion, right? So, on the other hand, just this: that we support the movement, they understand that with the ideas that have been introduced is better apart from this customization and direct attention to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.55.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature, the Member of Parliament, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.56.0	Well, good morning again. We are in a debate that can be very partial, but it would be good if we started a little focus. Why can't we talk about the branches that are closing in the territory, seeing what it is, right? , the banking system and how, for years, this banking system that has been making has been maximizing benefits and looking, in the background, expels a lot of people from the system financing. Because the system of financing, in the last few years, has done a great process of transformation of the banking system and this has also passed through this branch block, to stop offering various services, as explained by the deputy of the commons; a transformation of the banking system that goes through the different mergers, absorptions and closing of the boxes, and therefore requires a much deeper transformation. Is it obvious that I can make sure that bankers get to the end of the bargain? Obviously. That's why we're saying now that we're going to support the young lady, but that we understand that the debate has to go a lot further. It is necessary to address a banking regulation that guarantees the social function of the credit, that actually addresses the social function of the credit and that places controls and that guarantees that this is complete. And that, therefore, if it is not complete, then measures such as expropriation are addressed and that acts are passed on to a public banking pool. And that, therefore, we definitely bet for a public bank that responds to this, and that responds to the will and the collective interest, which is to which, in the fund, the banking system should serve. But the perversion of the capitalist system has caused us to find ourselves with profits of 5,226_million from CaixaBank with the merger of Bankia, which divides up to sixty_percent of the dividends and will buy back shares, right? , buys shares, while closing branches and shuts out a lot of people from some of the banking services. Or we are talking about that in 2021 the five banks of the IBEX 35 obtained a benefit of 19,866_million euros – the biggest since 2007 – in the midst of the crisis of the covid and in the midst of the crisis for the very many people, social and economic crisis. We could say it's obscene, but I wouldn't say it's obscene anymore, it's the own system that's built on this and that's allowed and that's accepted and that's what you're looking for is maximizing benefits. That's why we're talking about new banking regulation. And that's why we're talking about the need to push a public bank and regulate why the private bank responds to the collective interest while there's no such public bank. And this is an indispensable step, if what is really meant is to ensure that there is no negotiation with the estalves, but that the estalves serve, right? In order to have a social impact, we believe that this must be the main and priority interest. And I was talking about the benefits that the bank and the banks of IBEX 35 got, but then we're looking, right? In this idea of branch closure, and we have to have the sixty-four per cent of branches spread to Catalonia. It has assumed the closure of 5,256 branches in the last twelve years. Or there are 480 municipalities without a bank office, around 253,000 people without a bank office in the abst. So, yes, we will give support to the young man. We believe that it is a very concrete step or part of what can be addressed by the reform of the banking system and which, above all, is the banking system and the banking system that pays for these branches. That we don't get upset and that we don't get upset like the Barcelona City Council. Because here it cannot be that a bank that for years has obtained benefits and that has not returned the money of all through the rescue of banks, still remains the Public Administration that pays for doing its job, that is to ensure that citizens have access to bank branches and, therefore, to banking services. It is the responsibility of this bank, which benefits by closing branches and expelling them to the people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.57.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Riba has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselling, Members, Members, including finance, according to what the World Bank indicates, is to have access to useful and affordable financing products to individuals and businesses, which meet their needs and which are provided responsibly and sustainably. Through this motion, presented for the Junts Group, we urge the Government to work to ensure this included, initially planted, focused solely and exclusively on relation..., with independence from the municipality of residence. It is true, as has been pointed out in previous statements, that, through the papers presented by the different parliamentary groups, this quarter has been incorporated into which it is also indicated that it is necessary to work with measures that guarantee personalized attention to banking offices and access to personal and free telephone operators; that is, a more comprehensive view than we understand is the reality of the problem of the exclusion to be financed, to the extent that one of the elements is this geographical exclusion, but another is for reasons of population groups. I, therefore, also to deal with the problem in a comprehensive and complete way, as well as to deal with both questions. In our view, as I said, these measures are important and relevant, as well as measures that refer to geographical exclusion, with reference to this risk population. It seems important and basic to focus on measures because all municipalities have a box. It's what the purpose of the law is that you commented on in the inquiry and that you have already returned to Madrid. But, as I said, there are also factors related, for example, to age, vulnerable collections, disabilities, which also indicate the need to make a wider view. Therefore, we understand that this law proposal is necessary, but not enough to deal with the problem globally. Therefore, in addition to the lack of offices and caixers, we understand that it is necessary to deal with the globality of what represents the problem of digital bretxa, both, of course, for what it does to financial entities and access to them, as we could also apply it to the Administration, as it did during the pandemic with access to school level, but also in other processes that are taking place. It is essential to move forward in digitalisation, but we must also do so without leaving anyone behind. I would also like to refer to this – and this is the experience of our task, which has not been accepted – as a coordination between the different administrations. And in this sense, as the Gallego MP commented, the Law 4/2022, on the protection of vulnerable consumers, says, in its additional third provision, that the bank office lock-up cannot carry the box lock-up, that it is necessary to increase support staff to people with less digital abilities, that it is necessary to install signals of priority for use in automatic boxes, that it is necessary to promote the deposit of boxes for those who are excluded from vulnerable persons, that the technologies are easy to access, with maximum security for users before robbing, that it is necessary to take measures specifically directed at older people and those who have more difficulty accessing the financial services, etc. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, last February, promoted the signature of the protocol update signed in 2021 with the financial entities, in order to influence measures that face the personalized attention specifically to large people and people with disabilities, and also to meet the needs in rural areas and in communities at risk of exclusion. Therefore, we find ourselves in front of a problem that cannot be understood or addressed only through a law to lay boxes to the people, but, as I said, in a wider way. And it is also essential to coordinate between administrations: between the Generality and the joint ventures, between the Generality and the State and between the State and all the packages with the European Union, since, in the end, it is all part of Directive 92/2014 of the European Union, precisely on access and banking accessibility. So, as I was saying, this coordination. The solution is not, as Deputy Munell and above all the Councillor turned in his intervention in the inquiry, in the independence: "Apart from it, that we come, we fix it, we rule it... And independence is like the ointment of the lizard, which fixes everything for us. A small comparative right exercise indicates that it is not only the fact of presenting a legislative initiative from Parliament that is an anomaly, but that it is a virtue of our constitutional system. A few constitutions – neither German, Danish, nor French; only Italian, Portuguese and Spanish – provide for this mechanism of collaboration of federal type. Therefore, as I said, let us take advantage of it, exercise this ability without complexities, work with the administrations, exercise this legislative initiative of Parliament, according to what Article 87 of the Constitution says and 176 of our own Parliament Rules. Fem-ho, with god, without complex and recognize it overtly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.59.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.60.0	Thank you, President. As spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word have said, in fact, we live times of very high technological development, life goes at a dizzying speed, digitization does not wait for us and is changing everything at lightning speed, right? They are changing our habits of life and in many cases for the better. But it is true that, as in all of the highly disruptive era, there are many people left behind. Many Spaniards fail to adapt to the new ecosystem and remain detached from society. We have millions of people in Spain, and not so much older, who stay out of play; people who cannot take advantage of the advantages of the new digital age and who also lose fundamental rights and ability to live normally. Thousands of people today are socially excluded to do a lot of daily work. The majority of older people are incapacitated and completely limited in order to make efforts and develop their lives in an autonomous and independent way. The problem is serious, it's serious, but it's not new. I, while listening before to the rest of the speakers..., over a hundred years ago I worked in banking, and I remember the director of the office saying to you: "Get out there and tell the old man that..., hey, let him leave the book and that... Look, you have to sell him this from the credit card. It cost a lot. A lot of people, frankly... but this is about twenty or twenty-five years ago. It costs a lot of people. It was costing him 25 years ago and it's still costing him now. It's not just a matter of cashier or office. No, no, It's a little more serious. That is why I believe that the motion, as has been raised, is incomplete. All you have to think about is the older lady who now has a digital television and says: "And now how is this going? You have to do a management and on the other hand there are unbearable automatic answering machines that make you absolutely crazy; that in order to do not know what, to sign it I don't know how safe, they say: "No, you have to do what..., you have to sign it digitally with a PDF of I don't know what... And the woman... Really, all this..., in general we have to make an approach a little beyond what it is to speak only of cashiers. Of course, we agree with the spirit of the motion. Of course, we agree that there will be the maximum number of ATMs in all those villages where there are no ATMs. I read the other day that there were 443 villages in Catalonia where there is no ATM. Man, then, frankly, is a matter to be resolved. That situation must therefore be reversed. From the public authorities it is necessary to require the bank to take letters in the matter. I think that has to be done urgently. It has to be done in a coordinated way. I'm seeing a lot of administrations of different political signs, of different level, let's say, of structure, making their particular rules, their particular laws, their particular conditionings, often uncoordinated. I think that can be done better. And, of course, we agree that those future users, those potential users who will be able to see an ATM in those small municipalities, so, man, they don't have to take charge of the cost of receiving that benefit, right? Here we fill our mouths very often to fight that empty Catalonia. Well, that doesn't sound like a bad measure, does it? There's an ATM in all those villages that don't have that service. Certain oenegés, in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, are spending public money on making financial transactions in third countries. We are driving proximity banking in underdeveloped third countries and instead here 442 towns in Catalonia have no ATM. Frankly, I think we all have to agree on this thing. It is not so hard to understand that we have to care for our grandparents with dignity, to make life a little easier for them, with everything they have done for them, and that technological development, therefore, does not dehumanize us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.61.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Jordi Orobtig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.62.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members, we find ourselves with an inquiry promoted by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And proof of that is that this proposal, which some have sought to undervalue, has had a flow of items to try to modify its very important content. And this, from our point of view, is an accredited element that this circumstance, with an obvious social impact... that, in this case, banking concentration and digitalization have had an impact on the lives of many Catalans, who see that, in this case, a right that should be basic, such as the right of access to banking products, something as essential in our ordinary life as it can be to have a current account from which to operate, to pay back and to make effective dispositions, is something that has been, if not private, that has often been greatly appreciated by the ability to access, isn't it? We also understand that whoever has to do the dues, that in this case it is the Government of the State, has not done it. Anyway, we shouldn't be surprised either. It did not do so with the FROB, it did not do so with the management of the actions of the Sareb, we do not know why it should be done in time to predict the consequences of these measures at bank concentrations, which have entailed something that is very obvious, that is the limitation of the plants, the lack of territorial presence at the level of branches and offices by the banking entities, but this has not been to the detriment of the benefits of these entities. And, therefore, we understand that all these processes, that they may be logical and that they should be a logical consequence of the deployment of technology, should be accompanied by interim measures or, in this case, transitions that allow society in its conjunction to adapt to these changes without suffering. From the territorial point of view, those in smaller territorial areas, which are micro-populations and rural areas, and from the socio-logical point of view, collections such as that of large people or those people who have fewer opportunities to access digital management tools, so, man, who are not seen impacted by the adoption of these measures, I insist, when most of them do privatize the benefits and socialize the losers. From this point of view, we seem to be uncertain as soon as the motion came in, but for us it has been more than enriched and we will explain why. Beyond the wealth that has been generated by the incorporation of items from other groups, it is for what it does to ours. We would like to recall that in the last general policy debate we promoted a resolution, the 102, that in the narrow field of the competences of the Government of the General it provided for a series of measures that for us, if well they can not probably find the problem – because, as the Councillor said yesterday, while we do not have the full competences we will not have the capacity to do so –, indeed in the area of joint competences of the Department of Enterprise, and in this case of the Catalan Agency of Consum..., establish a series of measures that we can accompany, right? , such as promoting a code of good practices of financial entities, promoting the promotion of inspections and actions necessary to ensure access to the basic banking services and sanctioning possible abuses, or developing a study on the financial exclusion and promotion of proximity banking services, and, finally, the need to transfer to the Government of the State – we have already done so – that the authorisation of possible bank mergers is subject to the maintenance of branches of offices that guarantee a universal banking service. What's the end of it? So the same one that I understand is that it wants to promote with this legislative initiative encapsulated for the councillor, that what they claim is this, that there can be a proper access for all banking users of our country to basic banking services. And for us there's a premise that it's fun and fortunately incorporated into the motion, into the definite text, that it's the fact that guaranteeing these rights doesn't involve public spending, because we all understand that entities are more than solvents. This has been defended not only by the Parliament of Catalonia, but also by many municipalities, but we find a counterpoint, for us very contradictory, which is all that is promoted by the Barcelona Parliament and, in this case, therefore, for us it is a dissuasive note respecting this proposal arising from the same Government. We understand that this expenditure, logically, which must be borne by the banking entities and not by the citizens of our country through taxes. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.63.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.64.0	Thank you, President. First consideration, which is an indisputable fact, is that before a problem that has become social, survived, the banking system has reacted badly or directly has not reacted. Therefore, it is fully justified that the public authorities, each of their areas of competence, react and try to correct this situation. In this sense, I have to announce that practically the motion seems reasonable to us – and it is true that they could say other things, but that it is reasonable – and we would vote in favour of all points, except 1 bis. Why? So why the 1 bis point – and it has been explained with sincerity by Mrs. Reguant, the driving force behind the message that has given place to the final text – is not intended to solve this concrete problem, but to make the current banking system unsustainable and replace it with a public bank. It's legitimate, but obviously we don't share it, right? And they are taking advantage, a little, of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid to ask for measures that go beyond those that are required to solve, I insist, the concrete problem. Therefore, I vote in favour of the whole motion, with the exception of point 1a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.65.0	Thank you very much. And finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Junts' deputy for Catalonia, Mr.Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.66.0	Thank you again, President. Counselor... well, in any case, please also from here the papers, the transactions that we have arrived at. Obviously it is an enrichment of our own motion and, therefore, incorporate things that we certainly thought and had not written... Obviously, all this measure that is proposed, that is very concrete and that, obviously, there are many more measures to be taken and that there are certainly many more problems at the end, but in any case, the proposal that came from the Government and the proposal from the law is with a very concrete measure that solves, and in a feasible way, a problem that our country sees, that are these 443 municipalities without access to money or without access to simple operations necessary and that affect, as we said, almost a quarter of a million citizens. And, therefore, it is a very concrete proposal – it is not very ambitious, no, but it is very concrete and feasible – and, moreover, in a context in which the Generality has no skills, about the financing system. In change, therefore, this proposal..., it is believed, from the advice and from the group that we support the Government, that this proposal the Government of the State can incorporate it with ease. We already know that after... a protocol has already been announced and the legislative measure announced, but surely it will want to face many aspects of a problem that we have said is certainly much broader than this access to the money in effect; but, in change, the solution that is proposed in the law's proposal, as we say, is feasible, is quick to implement and we must be aware that a private bank that is only seeking to maximize benefits..., I remember what I said on the day of the inquiry: the year 2021 will be clean to 20,000_million euros of net benefits the banks that contribute to the IBEX, and that they will be rescued with public funding of 100,000_million euros. Waiting for this to change and for me to put up again offices at the social service of the city, it's probably a chimera, but putting up a casket in every municipality is an easy thing to do, easy to row, and it can be done in a few months. And we solve a real problem of the citizens of our country. This is the purpose of the law and, as we say, there are later digital training issues, there are telephone access issues, there are custom attention issues, obviously. And that is why we are convinced that they will be incorporated into the parliamentary process of this bill. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.67.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will be on this media, once the number 19 of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the activities of the Department of Economics and History in relation to the assumptions of the Generality]] [[302-0109/13]] Let's now move on from the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government about the activities of the Economic and Historical Department in relation to the assumptions of the Generality, which the Socialist and Unitary Parliamentary Group presented to us to advance. And you have the word, to expose it, Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.68.0	Thank you, President. Good day, counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, then, fifteen days ago, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units were asking the government about transparency, we could say; it was, say, a little, the driver, the driving thread of our inquiry to the councilman, because it is true that we were at last having, say, some..., not to say problems, but, in any case, the feeling of a certain sadness, isn't it? To put it this way, of a lack of data information, of unsolved appearances. And it seemed to us that it was worth it, since there were also some motions approved in this Parliament, which we could talk about again in the Chamber. We approved a motion, the 14/XIV of the Parliament of Catalonia, which was about, it is true, the pocket of communication media, the paper made by the Secretary of Dissemination in the Department of Economics. And that young man, most of whom had been approved throughout this hemisphere, carried, forced, in fact, the government to make a follow-up of commitments. One of them was that the Secretary of Diffusion came to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to present, therefore, the March agreement, which we already said we should refer to because the month of October expired. This happened, it was approved, it was bid and we didn't have that knowledge. And, therefore, it can be an oblivion, it can be, so... we don't want to put a negative element on it, but in any case, it didn't work out and, therefore, this seemed to us to solve it. We've asked for the Diffusion Secretary's appearance because he's coming to explain it to us. We believe that the role of public and private media in Catalonia is very important, and that it is very important that, obviously, from public policy, from governments, resources are devoted to supporting them. Now, yes, with clear criteria, with fair, transparent criteria. And that's what we wanted you to say. We believe that $89 million is well deserved. And so, so, this is a task that we want the government to do, right? That is why the first point of our young lady is to note this lack of compliment. We did not ask, again, that the secretary of Diffusion come to compare, we asked for it for other lives, our parliamentary group, but as it was, say, a pending debt, we expect the government to complete it. Then we also came in..., and the counselor knows, that we lacked some data from an appearance that we asked about the expenditure that had been carried out, with the tickets and transfers that had arrived from the Government of Spain – in the case of 2021, therefore, more than 2,000_million euros, more than 993 direct resources to local authorities and businesses. And it also seems to us that it would be good that, again, in a_me returned to compare the secretary general of the department to explain to us these data and this information. I also told the secretary general of the department that sometimes it's true that they don't always come to Parliament, that sometimes it's more complicated, it's more about agendas, that we're also at the government's disposal to explain to us what you think. In fact, he's gone through other stages and he's gone through with other counselors and other departments. And here's my company that's hanging out with the counselors, that's meeting with the secretaries generals, that have meetings. Well, there are some who are more lucky than others. And look, Counselor Giró, that you and I have a good relationship, right? But I don't have that sort of luck. Then I also tell him, therefore, that he knows that he can come here and give explanations, and he can do it his team, but that we can also see in a more extended way, that he can't do it all so formal. But what we always ask for is information, that we have, therefore, all the explanations necessary to make our opposition good, that it is a taxing opposition, because I think we are hard, too, with our plans, but constructive, in the sense that we can also offer alternatives to this government, right? And so, so, we did it and we did it the other day for what I was doing to these covetous expenses, also to the liquidation that they would tend to carry and that we already said, we announced that we didn't like some dates that they would appear, didn't we? For example, a small deficit, the lowest of the last decade, which will certainly not reach 0.3, when you said that you are likely to arrive at 1.1, and are calling this room, so more flexibility to the Government of Spain. So, well, it doesn't, because in the end it's going to make a very low deficit. Or they've asked the FLA for more resources than they've spent, because they've left more than 2,100_million euros in the cove. In short, they are answers that we want at that time, that we do not give and that we believe they deserve a presentation in committee, detailed, of the person you consider, to explain to us some facts that we believe at least in the pandemic should not be given. Is it necessary to keep the least deficit possible? Yes, but not in the pandemic when there are so many needs and when we constantly have collectors meeting with parliamentary groups and asking for more policy and resources for what they consider essential. So, let's wait... it's a simple young lady, after that interrogation, and let's hope, then, that all the groups can approve it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.69.0	It has the word now to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.70.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The motion that the PSC is proposing here today, then, is a combination of three things, isn't it? : institutional propaganda, transparency on covid funds and the need to comply with the law, with reference to the liquidation of the budget of the year 21. Anyway, it's a little weird Macedonian. I will try, a little, let's say, to summarize a little the position of our group on this. About institutional propaganda, right? Well, we've already defended our position. We think that, frankly, it is not necessary for Catalonia to spend 34 million euros per year plus VAT on advertising, advertising, in short, institutional. With much less could be communicated to the citizens certain actions; more, considering that there is a public television, a public radio, etc.. I mean, I don't think nearly 40 million a year on this issue is necessary. We ask for transparency, we ask for rigour, objectivity, neutrality in awarding these items and we ask for them to be reduced, huh? As I said at first. We have tabled a motion for a resolution in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs calling for a reduction of 90_per_cent of that heading, which would mean an important saving that could help solve some of the social issues that... that we all know, right? Of course, that presents this initiative the PSOE, the PSC, so, finally, when the Government of Spain spends 158_millions a year on institutional advertising, on institutional propaganda, and no one knows how or how it presents itself..., man, it does not cease to be significant. I do not think you are to give lessons in this matter. I think that the two governments, that of Spain and that of Catalonia, are wrong in the amount and the course of these aids, while, for example, here in Catalonia, as we say many times, 248,000 families have all their members unemployed or there is a social exclusion of thirty per cent of the population. I think that's where public resources have to be allocated, and I think that citizens don't understand that politicians spend money on this kind of propaganda having so many needs, don't they? The second point that the motion refers to is, finally, the beneficiaries of the transfers by the Government of Spain in relation to the covid funds. Of course, we will vote in favour. The more transparency, the better. The more and better we know who receives the public funds, so that they are used and if the objectives are being met, much better. In fact, we, at the end of December, already presented the initiative to promote an anti-fraud plan, a plan that has already been approved by the Government of the Generalitat. But exactly the same thing happens to me as with institutional advertising. That is to say, that the PSOE comes here to ask for transparency, well, because transparency is good, we all agree, but it is precisely the Government of Spain that is acting with the least transparency that anyone knows; that is, they are acting as true champions of opacity and with total obscurantism. In other words, it is practically impossible..., not « practically, not impossible to know what public resources are being allocated by the Government of Spain – it is impossible. So, well, hey, come here and ask for transparency, well, I think it's okay, but apply the story. Apply the story, because the truth is that we are talking about a very important amount of money and I think that citizens deserve to know exactly where all that money goes. And thirdly, they speak... well, they ask the government to abide by the law. Anyway, I think you'll have the will to fulfill it. I don't know. Anyway, I don't have to a priori suspect you don't. There is the law of public finances of Catalonia. I think I remember the deadline until April 30th to present the budget settlement... well, present the no, do the and then present the. Well, that's fine; that is, we agree. We have introduced an amendment to improve its wording. The wording of the original text of the motion was somewhat loose, to say the least. We wanted to improve it, we wanted to adjust it to the law of finance of Catalonia. And we've asked for two things, which, since the PSC doesn't answer us and so on, I remember. Two things we've asked; I think we've given ourselves..., for having received the negative. We ask..., I think it would be good for the Department of Economics to appear quarterly in the committee to report on budget execution. Every three months. It is done in the Congress of Deputies, it is done in other legislative chambers. And beyond seeing the reports that are hanging on the web, that would be fine. And we have also presented a classic: ask the Union of Accounts to speed up the control of the accounts of the 20th and, of course, the 21st. It's always going well. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.71.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.72.0	Well, thank you. Very briefly, because I think the young lady doesn't give a lot of speeches either. Beyond that, there are very concrete things in which... I'll say that in point 2 and in point 3 we will vote in favour. Whatever progress is made in transparency, fiscal capacity and the opportunity for parliamentary opposition groups to have access to information, we will always support it. At the same time, it would also be interesting for the Government of the State to apply what is required here. But go on, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, we will confine ourselves to taxing or working on the basis of the Government of the Generality. But sometimes these inconsistencies about what is being asked of the government here and what is not to the state to put them in store. And in relation to point 1, it is a motion that in total practice, in its moment, we as a parliamentary group gave support to it and, therefore, we understand that we should continue to advance in those agreements adopted. We believe that there is a part that the same Member has expressed, that she has already asked for the appearance, that it was very likely that we should have done all before, the appearance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. And it's true that some of the elements that fit into that young man, to provide information or documentation to the Economic Commission, have not been done under the conditions that we would probably all like. As we understand that there are some things that yes and some that no, we at this point will finally abstain. Now, we are all aware that when we often agree here that we need to present detailed data on things, that we need to present detailed data and that we sometimes apologize in other procedures to avoid doing so. And that in questions above all how it guarantees the distribution of the public assumption or the execution of the public assumption..., are delicate questions that may require, sometimes, more celery by the government, even though it is also much more celery by the opposition groups. Like I said I wouldn't be mad, I'll leave it here. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.73.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.74.0	Well, good morning. Yes, we will vote for the young lady. Three points. We understand that it's a young man who, in principle, poses transparency. Therefore, far from any thought being against transparency. Therefore, our transparency. It's not just transparency, it's transparency and clarity, because I think it's also important that transparency is clear. Because they can explain things to us, but if they're not understanding, then obviously it's an opaque little thing. That's why I think the man who claims is that he's filling out other motions that have come forward, that he's filling out legal procedures, but he's also doing it clearly, understanding at the right times. That is why we will vote in favour of the three of us. The first one. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Someone told us that, well, that's already been done. I looked for the papers and, man, yeah, something happened, but it didn't all happen. And it's hard to hear and to be sure of the information that's being demanded. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the first. From the second, obviously, too. I think the secretary general, Mr. Jordi Cabrafiga, made a good intervention the other day to the Economic and Historical Commission. I think he explained the data well. It was good. But it would certainly be interesting, it is necessary, we need to know in a more detailed and disaggregated way how we have spent our coveted funds for each department. I need to know. It's important to know. We have to go a little further than he did the other day and, therefore, unbundle the information. And the third... obviously, in the 2021 assumptions, the state of execution must be presented, cannot be in any other way and must be presented. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the three items, because... I'm sorry, of the joint motion, of the three points of the motion, because we understand that transparency is important, clarity is also important. I, for one. so that one thing remains transparent and clear as to unbundle it, as to detail it, as to inform it, not only at the appropriate procedural time, not only to complete the process, but to make the process really useful so that we understand how the expenses of public resources have been carried out, which, in short, is what the citizenry asks us to do, that we control their money well, how they are spent and how they are applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.75.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.76.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Socialist Party of Catalonia for putting forward a motion which, in fact, is in the line of demanding more transparency, more accountability and, ultimately, a more respectful administration with that requirement that we Members of this House are accountable to the citizens, in areas as important as budgetary matters, in areas as important as where the budgetary allocations made by the Government of Spain to the covid funds that also reach our community, and in such an important aspect also, of course, as is always that of the media of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. This motion of the Socialist Party speaks of a motion, the 14/14 of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the work of the public media, the public media of Catalonia, as well as other considerations. And in this sense, I yesterday, when I was preparing the interventions..., when one is in a smaller group, accustomed to having been in larger groups, because he has to prepare many motions of the most diverse. And yesterday..., I must admit that here, like everyone else also explains a bit their personal experience, because I, while preparing my motion, was watching the Real Madrid match against Paris Saint-Germain. And the truth is, [[the timer riu]] In this sense, I must say one thing to you: I am very drawn to the extent to which nationalism has managed in Catalonia to create a state of opinion, to create a state of mind, as if all Catalans thought the same thing. Yesterday, some MP from Esquerra Republicana was talking to us, telling us that the Francoism imposed on Catalonia..., sorry, it was the councilwoman of Junts per Catalunya, councilwoman Alsina, and came to tell us that Francoism was an exogenous thing in Catalonia, something that had never had anything to do with Catalonia. And I thought to what extent nationalism has managed to create a story of an idyllic Catalonia facing the rest of Spain, a homogeneous Catalonia in which everyone thinks the same, with a peculiarity– and I see here Councilman Giró, a person of lighted Barcelonaism–..., and I thought that nationalism did the same, exactly the same, with the passion for football, the passion for different football teams. And it is true that, in Catalonia, the team that has the most fans among the citizens of Catalonia is the Barcelona Football Club. There is another great team, which is Spanish, which also has a lot of fans, but often forgets that the second team in Catalonia is Real Madrid. [[Some applause.]] That channel, that TV3 that neglects us many times the plural reality of Catalonia, forgets that in Catalonia there are hundreds of thousands of Catalans, as Catalans as much as those who are more, who are fans of Real Madrid. And, in this regard, I believe that we must demand more respect for pluralism, for the diverse nature of Catalan society. And, in that sense, I also want to make a claim that, from the point of view, precisely..., by linking it to the question, it will not be that the president does not like it – and I say it with all due respect, eh? , President. But, in any case, by linking it to the motion, I believe that TV3 has fueled a precisely anti-madridist speech that worries me. For years we have even seen documentaries in which on TV3 it was said..., for example, a title« Real Madrid. The black legend of white glory. On TV3 it was compared to Real Madrid players with hyenas. We have seen things precisely in the line of depreciating a feeling of many Catalans, among which I include myself, among which I include, of course, my children and some of the colleagues I have here on the benches of, surely, both sides. And that's why I think it's so important that TV3 recognizes Catalonia's plurality, that TV3 recognizes Catalonia's history. When we talked, for example, about historical characters in Catalonia, about characters who have done great things in Catalonia..., Històries de Catalunya was a TV3 program where we talked about great characters who had done great things, and we used to talk about characters for which some Catalans do not feel special sympathy, because, for example, Francesc Macià, Lluís Companys and others that are part of the collective imagination of nationalism. For, in this sense, I want to claim today, from the rostrum of this Parliament, the figure of the Padró brothers, the Carlos and Juan Padrós, who were the founders of the Real Madrid Club de Fútbol and who were also the founders of the Copa del Rey de football. I think it's important. [[Funnel veils]] I know it alarms you, I know that for you it's certainly... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, I, the truth, I wonder... is that it draws a lot of attention to the nationalist politicians who claim the catalanity of Real Madrid, the importance that Catalans have had in the rest of Spain... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I understand that they are indignant, but let me speak – let me speak – it's just... [[Fons's wishes.]] What does that have to do with anything? Well, I don't think you do interventions when you talk to me, you compare Kurdistan to me on October 1st, or you say... when the invasion of Ukraine begins, you tell me that something will have been learned by the Spaniards on October 1st. Well, I say to you, simply, that you should bear in mind that the reality of Catalonia is plural, it is diverse, and in this sense I would like to repeat, in fact, the Catalan origin of Real Madrid. They're asking me for the time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.77.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.78.0	...and I tell you, Mr. De Dalmases, Hala Madrid, Visca Catalunya and live Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.79.0	Lord God's Sea! He used to remind her of the young lady's title, but it's over and it's gone. On behalf of the Grup Mixt, you now have the word Mr. Fernández, who I hope will leave the side football, if it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.80.0	Yeah, I know how to cuddle and, besides, with the bed and so I'm not going through a good stage in this life, or so on, I won't add to the Nacho reflections; but well, I understand them, huh? And I'll give you the merengues. Or go on, things like that. Well, about the young man. If things work well in Catalonia it would not be good to present a motion of these characteristics, but it is obvious that they do not work very well and, consequently, there is a motion that..., we will support it, because, of course, a motion that calls for completing agreements of the motions, transparency in the government's data and presentation of the definitive settlement of the presumption, so I insist, are materials that are so obvious that the problem is to reflect what is failing because this does not work when it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.81.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Judith Toronjo has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.82.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I believe that today it is fair to put in value, first of all, the words that the Councillor has translated to us at the end of plenary, with this compliment of the Government and the Department of Economy and History in the transparency of public finances, but also of the new transparency obligations that we recently approved in this Parliament in the wake of the bill of measures of 29 September. In this sense, and referring to the motion, a very brief motion with three points of resolve, highlighting from Juntes for Catalonia, as we would like to note, yes, that the Government has precisely completed with the agreement of the motion of 22 July on the public service task of communication media and management of institutional publicity in these media. They have recognized the task of public service, recognize, moreover, these advertising campaigns, publishing them in time and form and raising them to the Government of the Generality and to the Parliament of Catalonia, as well as informing of the criteria for the distribution of resources, with clear figures, with strong figures on which each media and communication group answer. However, as some parliamentary groups have realized today that they do not follow the compliment reports, I have brought copies of the Butlletí Official of the Parliament of Catalonia so that I can read them. I have a couple of copies available. The same way I look and look very curious that we talk about propaganda with the vaccination campaign or even whose club is a member of the Catalan Parliament, which is not much less the issue of this young man. Now, if what the Socialist Group wanted, as it has moved us, it's a match, you know the procedure. They have requested the same of the secretary of Diffusion and, as the councillor moved, will appear immediately if it is considered opportune, without any problem and with total transparency. But I am not surprised by this demand for the Catalan government, when the Spanish government, for another band, does not give any kind of explanation about this increase of 115_million euros for which it makes the presumption in institutional advertising. Therefore, let us also apply this coherence to the rest of the institutions. For another band, for what it does at the point about urging the government to present to the Economic and Historical Commission the details about the transfers of the government for which it does the covid fund, to emphasize that this appearance was brought to an end by the secretary general last month and more with all the information to his abst. Because these extraordinary foundations of the State were not finalists and, therefore, Catalonia could adopt and assign them according to the needs of every moment, with covid-19. Therefore, in this total amount of €4,221 million to deal with the pandemic, the details of the expenditure were donated, which obviously resulted, in departments, such as Salut, such as Education, or such as Social Rights or Enterprise and Work, the most affected by this severe economic, social and health crisis. Some resources that if they were needed yesterday, they're also tomorrow. Therefore, if they were necessary 2021, it is also 2022. And we demand them again and we demand from the Spanish Government the compliment of these covid funds approved in this presupposition of 2022 on the part of the State, with the slogan recorded by the group to Congress, these 1,600_million euros necessary of those that we demand the compliment to fight these hard consequences and to be able to face this stage of economic recovery for the country. And finally, for what it does at last point, highlight how the final settlement, as has been said, has, therefore, this deadline until April 30th. As was the case a year ago, it will be published, and there is, in this case, no room for question and debate about this point. We shall therefore vote in favour. However, it is true that the data of the deficit of 2020 have been published, not since 2021 – so I don't know what this information is – but in any case the data of the deficit of 2020 are less than €755 million and are not comparable with the exercise of 2010, as the Councillor recalled in his intervention. And doubling the deficit and multiplying the generality's debt by three, I believe that in this case it is not the best example or the policy we have to adopt at this time by the government. Therefore – and finally, Madam President – I cannot end without reiterating this commitment of the department to thank the adviser who guarantees and who follows this task of transparency of the public funds of the Government of the Generality, and, obviously, who does so with this will of recovery that the country needs, and also raising, as we always have to do, parliamentary groups, this withholding of accounts to the rest of parliamentary chambers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.83.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.84.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, what we're discussing today is a strange young woman, it has already been explained, it has already been referred to by various people who have spoken. It is a compendium of three themes that have little coherence between them and even there is no detail that the title of the young person is consistent with its content. The truth is, we've seen far more lucid motions from Mrs. Romero in this chamber. [[Widow's remorse.]] Asking transparency always – always – is positive and always generates consensus, and asking for more transparency also generates consensus in all parliamentary groups. Now, it's also good that in order to manage transparency we use the mechanisms that the rules and laws determine, and in any case, I'll refer to it later, because there are procedures for each of the issues that are raised today that are much more effective than the mechanism that has just been raised. Of course, starting with the first point, respects the motion 14..., the compliment of the motion 14. You know perfectly well, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, Rule 162, determines how we must proceed with the parliamentary groups to ask for the compliment of a Member: a report is requested from the department and this report is presented to the committee responsible for that matter and is debated, and it is debated whether it has been completed or not. And from here, it is certainly legitimate that there are different interpretations of different parliamentary groups as to whether it is complicated or not properly complicated. The opinion of my group, after analysing the question, is that there is a satisfactory compliment. With regard to the third point, which is to ask the Councillor of Economy and History to present before the committee the liquidation of the assumptions of 2021, let us again use a procedure that is certainly not the most appropriate. They know that if they want the councillor to appear to explain the liquidation of the assumptions of 2021 is as simple as, for the next Economic and Historical Committee, they ask and all groups will vote for it; that's simple. That's right, I'd be fine, as it has been said... April 30th is the deadline that the Catalonia Public Finance Act marks to present the settlement of the assumptions. Nor has any argument been put forward to precipitate the terms that determine the law. And, therefore, we understand that it would be good that, in view of the month of May, once the deadline of 30 April has expired, to be able to request this appearance. And there is already progress: it will have the support of my parliamentary group and certainly of all parliamentary groups in this chamber. And respect the second point, which is asked to explain again the information that came to explain to us the secretary of the Department of Economics and History to the later committee..., and I'm sure that, as it was manifested, you can explain things in more detail. In any case, a precision. They ask him to explain what these extraordinary fund resources are intended for, and it is good to be aware that they are non-finalist funds. And this is important: to be aware of it. And the secretary general perfectly explained it: they are not finalist foundations. When some funds aren't finalists, it means they're going to increase the input matches and there's no finalist link to those funds. And this is not determined by the Government of Catalonia, it is determined by the ministry. The ministry, with good criteria, is going to determine that the management of these resources, of these funds..., had to proceed in this way. Therefore, surely what can be explained with more detail is how the famous 3,900_million euros that impact on the assumptions of 2021 of the Government of the Government of Catalonia..., can be explained, with more detail than the Secretary General already explained to us, who are the major expenses, with more detail, who are the smallest entries that were provoked by the year 2021. And, in any case, take the opportunity to reiterate once again that since the government of the State, 2021, only fifty-five percent of the presuppositional impact of the covid has been covered and that by 2022 it seems that the pandemic has already ended. In any case, I would like to insist – and it has been explained very well – that the transparency of the assumptions, of the management of the assumptions of the Government of the Generality on the part of the Department of Economics and History is excellent and is very much on the side of the ministry and very much on the side of the rest of public administration. Well, in any case, it's always perfectable, but it's worth it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.85.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.86.0	Look, Mr. Saved, I'll tell you with all due respect that I have, that it's enough: the opposition decides how it does opposition; we decide what we ask, don't ask, or what motions we do. And from here, you value them. But I'd just miss that now the opposition... or else, you have to tell me how to oppose it. [[Greetings.]] Secondly, you have a complex; the deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia of Junts and Esquerra have a complex: they would like to be in Madrid. So vagina in Madrid! I'm asking your parties to send them to Madrid to make MPs! Oh, no! So, man, we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. And I'm taxing the government of Catalonia! I propose to the Government of Catalonia an alternative! « Hosti, let's go...! Because they're criticizing Spain all day long, but it seems like they want to be at the Congress of Deputies! Listen, I'm asking your parties to put you on the congressional lists of deputies and vagina there to criticize the government of Spain! Because I already do it in the organizations I play. It's that, really, so much Catalonia, so much to cherish the country, and it turns out that we get here and we just talk about the others. And one more thing, Mr. Saved: when we look at someone else, I try to look at the one that makes it better, to improve and advance. No, you're always staring at who makes it worse. Well, that's his way forward. All right, then, "fine. Look, listen, the motion that was approved in this Parliament has not been completed. And we have already asked for a compliment report – that we are the PSC; that we are a parliamentary group, Socialists and Units for Progress, that we do well things –; a compliment report that has not been completed. It is that "in the term of two_months, that the government come to present the agreement, that the government come... they have not come – they have not come. So he didn't like it. I'm sure it's hard, Mrs. Reguant: they haven't met in totality, their agreements. I, therefore, well, abstain there, but they did not come. He didn't like it. Did you publish the memo? Yes, because we asked for it – perfect – but not all agreements. And the other... home, what do you say, Mr. Saved, that Mr. Cabrafiga came and gave us all the details... Please! It's embarrassing for me to say that! Four slides with a powerpoint! Home, please! Counselor Aragonès, when he was responsible for the economy, gave much more information. It's just that at least you could say that to make yours good! Much better! Home, that's good! She's a disgrace! He's donating four dice. Did he give... is that transparency? Is that good government and good management? So let someone come and explain it to me, because I honestly don't understand. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.87.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will have a place at this midday, just when the point we're starting now, the new, the post-government inquiry into the state of education, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, is over. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of education]] [[302-0004/13]] It has the word to expose it to the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.88.0	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry, President, and I'm glad you didn't cut me before. Now I won't talk about the Royal Madrid, but I do want to talk about something that was also surprised a few years ago in this Parliament. I understand that it is a little strange and surely the fact that someone is professing godly faith in Parliament's Faristol, in change, does not surprise anyone that someone is professing to be a Barcelona faith in this Ple. I've heard it from a lot of Members, and so I think it is, and it's reasonable and it makes sense that it's vague normalizing things in our Parliament like these. It also seems to me very well and very normal that in this plenary of Parliament it is vaguely normalizing the use of the other language of the citizens of Catalonia, of the majority language of Catalans, which is the castle. Therefore, I believe that they are also elements of normality, precisely, that before they would wipe out some, and some would be very much when someone made the castle serve in this faristol, and now it seems that the thing, therefore, is done with absolute normality. I remember when in the 1990s someone used to serve the castle in this Parliament, some, and so on, some members of Convergence, cried out: "What are the children in the Chamber, please! , as if the children had to suffer a trauma for the fact of feeling to speak the Spanish language, the Spanish language, the majority, certainly, of the citizens of Catalonia. In this sense, in our motion we ask, precisely, the compliment of the feelings of the twenty-and-five-per-cent of teaching hours in castle in the classrooms of Catalonia; we defend the right of the citizens of Catalonia to have in our educational system a model of linguistic conjunction. Certainly, one of the papers presented to us by the Parliamentary Group of VOX was the demand of the right to be educated in castle. We want to point out, in this sense, that for us it is very important to talk about the right to be educated also in castle; also in castle and also in català, not only in castle and not only in català. We believe that it is perfectly possible, that it is perfectly viable, that, moreover, it is healthy for the citizens of Catalonia, for our children, to have all two language schools, to speak Catalan and castle indistinctly. And, therefore, from our partisan perspective of bilingualism, as at least we defend the compliment of these feelings of the twenty-five percent of teaching hours in castle. On the other hand, this young man also raises other aspects. I see that the Councillor has arrived now, that, moreover, they had warned me that he was going in a hurry and that, indeed, it would be difficult for him to arrive at the time, and, on the other hand, I thank him, Councillor, that he is here, for the effort, indeed, that I know that it was difficult for him to arrive on time. From this point of view, we, with this young man, are asking the councilman's reprimand for how he led the change announcement on the school calendar. Let's ask the chamber... and, in fact, the president, one of the things I want to ask is that before the vote is read the 1st point of this young man, because, precisely, we consider that the way the counselor managed this change in the school calendar was an authentic one from now on. The educational community has been very dissatisfied, both the directors of centres, as teachers, as parents, members of AMPAs etc., have been very dissatisfied with their attitude, to our opinion, unilateral and, to our opinion, to the left towards the dialogue with the educational community. This is why we ask that a fluid communication be restored between the department and the teaching centres and administrative units of the Department of Education. We believe that it is fundamental, that this communication is essential, more in a matter that is so fit, that it is so important for our welfare state, and, ultimately, for the social, cultural, economic and human progress of our community. We also ask, among other things, to speed up the construction of new schools, assuming the costs of construction and installation in operation that correspond to the department, according to their skills. We believe that from this point of view, as we have seen, for example, in the case of institutes, such as that of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, or other institutes that are built, yes, but with a very precarious condition, such as that of Premià de Mar, we consider it essential that the Councillor is committed in his parliament, and from the point of view of his obligations, of his duties as the most responsible for education in our community, is committed to the quality of the facilities and of the training options of the public and concerted centres of our community. From this point of view, we also ask for the establishment, with the effect of pre-registration, of a single municipal school area that allows the couple and the seas to choose the center that they consider most convenient from the existing ones in the city of Barcelona. These set the phone points, Counselor, and Members of Parliament. In the turn of the exams I will already manifest myself on our position on the exams. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.89.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.90.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. You have the world of bull education. There are times of many changes, which can sometimes generate uncertainty, also fears, so as not to say it, or even take a lot of effort to adapt; but other times, if things are not good enough, they also generate frontal oppositions: if they are changes that are required, they announce themselves without agreeing to it; when these decisions are taken without taking into account the other, when the other can be a joint, can be the directions, can be the masters, when you need another to take them forward. And the educational community, and specifically the educational centers are exhausted for the management of the pandemic for so many months. And the very course will begin to unfold the new educational curricula that are derived from LOMLOE, the new state education law that will make possible, among others, the mixed schooling of a concerted educational centers that until now separated by sex children and children in separate classrooms, the differentiated school, that almost its totality, therefore, has come to school together children and children to keep the concert, which we celebrate. A law, therefore, that presupposes a modernization of the education system, that advances in equity and advances in inclusiveness. But, as I said, it implies the deployment of new educational curricula, which today in Catalonia have not yet been approved and which will require preparation, training on the part of the group of teachers, much more dedication, and which can represent an important change in certain centres. And here's a calendar advance that brings together a compact day by September that will make even more uneven between public and concerted centers. And we are concerned about the highly tense state of education in which we find ourselves, with many open fronts; early school leaving, which has been reduced, but is still too high, in a context of lack of public offer enough professional training, when we are still taking a system that makes planning based on a preliminary prospect, with a better orientation. Figure out what orientation they can do if they still don't have the resumes of the future battle, as they denounce the directions. But we are also concerned about segregation, which, according to the syndic, has fallen in a deu_per_cent, but it is still a very shy and not structural reduction, the inequality between the centers of which he spoke. And that's why we can't give up the planning tools, like the educational zoning of what the young man is talking about. We are concerned that there is a strong agreement for the financing of the zero-three stage of education, not one announcement for one year to finance the schooling of families bringing children to Children 2, no. Because, if not, it's when one guest expects another to pay. What it takes is to go there more. It is important to ensure the stability of the zero-three-year education model, which is so important for equal opportunities to ensure its financing and also to advance in universalization. And we're also worried about some very stagnant educational outcomes at the bottom, a decade ago; that not all children and children have the skills in foreign languages that we would like them to have, and, of course, as the young man speaks, the lack of investment in construction and the greater number of educational centers. Here we have to say that we are surprised that Ciutadans places the focus on the cessation of municipal buildings, when normally this does not get used to being the problem, more quickly the lack of compromises of the department or the proliferation of modules. We have to say that the language at school or, better said, the languages at school do not worry us. We're against the parents' right to choose the language of schooling, because that would open the door to the double line. We have defended, as we have always done, the communal school, the one that does cohesion, the one that guarantees results in the full domain of official languages – so good there is not a third – and, obviously, we are also in favour of the compliment of the sentences, which can be done preserving and improving the educational system as well. Now, the thing that worries us most, maybe, at this point, is this lack of dialogue, of communication that we see in the office, because the changes are fan, as I said, with agreement, is fan seeking complicity. And here we have to recognize that the forms have not been good, counselor, they have not been the best. And when we get to this point, we have to ask ourselves if the counselor deserves to be reprimanded, as the judge proposes, if we deserve to reprimand their forms. I'm sure he deserves it, but we understand that education won't pay for that. And that's why, from the Socialist Group and Forward Units, even though we're very critical, we think that you deserve an opportunity and we hope that this will work out, because education needs to have a new opportunity of improvement in this country. And the councillor must also have an opportunity to resume the dialogue, to seek agreement, an opportunity to seriously compromise with the reduction of segregation and inequalities, with the impulse and the improvement of professional training the proper course, with the guarantee of zero-three years of schooling, universalization of this educational stage, and with a better learning of languages, of català, of castle and also of third languages. We give you this opportunity, counselor, because the education system in Catalonia deserves it, and we do ask you not to go back to deceiving us, because, if not, the next reprobation will be brought to us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.91.0	Then, and also to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.92.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, honourable Members, good morning. In Athens at the end of the sixth century B.C., Clistenes deployed the democratic system. One of the constitutive elements of this system was ostracism, which consisted in removing from political life all those suspected of being a danger to the community, of hindering, with their attitude or attempt to accumulate power, the proper functioning of civic institutions. Each citizen wrote in a ceramic piece – ostracon in Greek – the name of a suspect, and if that name gathered more than six_1,000 ostracon or vows he was banished from Athens for ten years – they did not walk with little girls. Well, the motion presented to us Citizens addresses, in general terms, a problem of utmost gravity. We regret that our amendments have not been accepted. A small point: we ask that a child from Murcia, Galicia, Asturias, when he comes here to Catalonia to study, can study without having to know Catalan. Little punctuation. And the greatest gravity is that it is the degradation of the Catalan educational system, the damage that is being caused to the child by the Department of Education and its maximum responsibility, which is Mr. Gonzàlez. To those who sell us that the Catalan school is an educational model of success..., today I will not insist – today I will not insist – that the results of the ESO's basic fourth competences have descended in the last tests in mathematics and English. Nor am I going to insist that those who have presented themselves for access to university studies in children's and primary education have been able to achieve this by only fifty_per_cent. Nor will I insist that since 2015 the performance of Catalan students in mathematics, science and reading has fallen by an average of 9.7_per_cent, according to PISA. Nor am I going to insist that the school failure rate in Catalonia is the highest in Spain. Today I place you, yes, to, please, leave your offices for a while and exercise as teachers – exercise as teachers. I don't ask you for twenty-six years anymore, as is my case, but if one week, it wouldn't be bad. But in case you don't follow my suggestion, I'm going to give you a robot portrait of what happens in a normal school, a medium-sized school, Catalan, of l'Eixample Barcelonès. At nine o'clock in the morning the course begins, the class begins. Teachers, with all the spirit of the world, try to help children grow human, intellectual and emotional. Students are distributed in their classes, according to the course. Well, it's not true: a good group of them, a large group of students, goes directly to the classroom d'accollida; it's a space where students of different nationalities, of different ages, gather to receive, for a few hours, Catalan classes. The other students do start their classes normally, working for projects, without just direct instruction. They're having a great time, that's all. Classes are like a carousel of empathy, of self-esteem, of emotions, primacy over knowledge. That's right, in the third grade, most children don't know how to read and write according to their age, but it doesn't matter, because how can they pass from course without a limited number of suspenses..., sorry, assignatures in process d'assoliment, so, nothing happens. The teacher of a classroom of twenty-i-five students, of whom nine have a curriculum adaptation for various motius..., and two of them specifically need constant cognitive reinforcement, does what they can by teaching their area equally, in an inclusive manner, without the help of any watchman or any other professional. Of course, it does not achieve its objective, resulting in harm to the whole class. Teachers strive to treat children more, earn their trust, talk to them, because they have had a very bad time after confinement. The ability to concentrate is diminishing, the knowledge is also precarious..., in short. But they face a new problem, and the language committee tells them that they can only use Catalan to talk to children and their families. Anyway, the day's over. Exhaustive teachers, who knew by press the draft curriculum without their participation, learn that the counselor has just advanced the course unilaterally. Of course, they are conjured to go on strike on 15 and 16 March, and, with the whole educational community, in thousands of ostracon write two surnames: Gonzàlez-Cambray. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.93.0	Then, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A new cycle to win, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.94.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, the department can't impose calendars, changes in the day or curriculum without social dialogue; that's a truth like a temple and I think a common feeling majority of our society and our educational community. Collective bargaining is fundamental and essential, also as a basic, consensual instrument, to build a solid model of public education based on the right to education, including equity and that respects the rights of teachers and teachers. You know – we will enter a cycle of waves and mobilizations, with various basic objectives that you already know, but I will highlight them: the increase in investment and resources in education, the reversal of detail, respect for the rights of workers in education and the stability of the interiors, the democratization of educational centres, collective bargaining and linguistic immersion. Five days of vacation – five – and still more: a vacation on March 23, specifically called in defense of the català at school and of linguistic immersion and against the feeling of the TSJC that imposes the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the teaching in castle. Vacancy days in defense of public school, universal and free, democratic, inclusive, in catal and quality. Days of struggle for public education, coinciding with a beginning of the process of pre-registration and enrolment that, from our point of view, we say again now and here, will continue to generate inequalities, school segregation and, sense of doubt, deficits in inclusion, because you continue to bet on a liberalized school model based on a triple network – public, concerted and private – that inevitably indefugeably and structurally generates segregation. And we, counselor, do not agree, let us say step and purpose of the motion of Ciutadans, with its policy of centrifugation of responsibilities of the department from the educational centers and from the joints; with an autonomy of centers that generates inequalities between schools and, therefore, segregation, once again that, with the diversification of the linguistic projects of the school, it facilitates or can facilitate a runway of terror because the Spanish language becomes vehicular and because of the de facto application of the feeling of the twenty-five_per_cent; but also – and neither do we agree – discharge into the joints responsibilities that are of the department at the time of building our school equipment or developing the school network. Look, counselor, I think his main problem isn't that Ciutadans reprobates it tomorrow, I think the most important problem you have is that at these times the majority of the educational community, including the unions, ask him to resign; this is the main problem he has at these times. And, look, we're voting against Ciutadans' motion today. We don't work with Citizens, with PP or VOX, because we defend educational models that are not just different, but antagonistic and with opposite ends and objectives. Also, counselor, it has been days that they will be instrumental in determining the position of the educational community, and also that of our parliamentary group, in relation to you and your department. Therefore, counselor, we have made it clear and forcefully: dialogue, please; dialogue and negotiation with the educational community and escorts and assume their proposals and demands for and in defence of public education and the resources needed for this public education to become truly universal, free, inclusive and which also guarantees, at times and in full, the right to education and, at the same time, the rights of the workers and workers of the education. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.95.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word now M. Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.96.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, today the world of education is convulsed, the concern is growing for the forms of advice, without dialogue and without seeking consensus. On February 10th, in fact, the Department of Education sent the announcement of the new school calendar by letter to the schools in Catalonia, which was announced by the President of the Government on a press conference. An announcement that, with a few new timetables, it is clear that neither the educational community nor the families nor the municipalities of Catalonia had been granted. A fact, therefore, that again shows the unwillingness of the department to dialogue with the local world and with the educational agents referring to our country. The Department of Education, in this sense, therefore, returns to the educational community, to the local world, reproposing structural changes in the Catalan school model without the necessary consent, without counting on these agents, and neither with the Catalan School Council. It may be added that this hourly change causes the teaching and management teams of the educational centres to have less time to prepare the course starter, even more overloading their tasks before the school starter. In addition, this hourly modification raises many doubts about the hours of the school-worker, about the possibility of carrying the care of children and adolescents into the hands of proper family members, and, at the same time, this hourly reduction will directly affect the increase in extra-curricular activities by the assemblies. And even though the obligation to open educational centres in September until 16 hours is explained in order, this obligation is not accompanied by our economic resources, a fact that will obviously end, as often happens..., with an increase in expenditure on part of the assemblies. The education unions – other spokespersons have already said this – have unitedly announced a five-day vacancy – on March 15, 16, 17, 29 and 30 – for this lack of dialogue with the department, considering that the councillor has forgotten what is her obligation, that it is also promoting respect and recognition for the twelve-year-old before society. And they also claim more investment, more collective bargaining, more quality in education and also, obviously, more inclusive education. They denounce and reject your attitude of undersistence, counselor, towards workers and workers, and a tax and authoritarian attitude that has clearly been shown during these days. And we also ask him, in this sense, a change of attitude and, therefore, that he abandons the imposition and lack of dialogue with the educational community. We may be able to share some of the changes regarding the transformation of our model of education in our country, but facts, realized from the consensus, from the negotiation and, therefore, not from the imposition. And in this sense, for example, we would like you to have a moratorium so that you can do so calmly, consensually, in the coming course and, therefore, apply to the following. We will, therefore, support all those points that make reference to the elimination of barracks, the construction of nine schools as well, and all that you have to see with the increase in investment to bring us closer to the six-per-cent of GDP in terms of education in our country and, therefore, to the European media. And, obviously, this young man is also talking about what he's talking about with the whole language thing. In this sense, from our group we will not support all of these points, because we participate in the national language pact, because we believe that we need to renew the consensus that has made català a point of finding and a tool of social cohesion in your day. For us, the future of Catalonia calls for a constructive debate, because the linguistic bases of the future of Catalonia and of the entire linguistic community are shared as widely as possible. And on this line we work and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.97.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.98.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, to convey our support for the movement in its integrity, because it includes a substantial part of our educational proposal respecting the educational community: transparency, freedom of choice of center, elimination of barracks, linguistic conjunction and compliment of judicial sentiments. If this is added, then, this reprobation, to some of the actions that the Councillor has had to finish, is complete what we say, plenary re plenary, on the situation of teaching in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.99.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Anna Erra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.100.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... thank you for being here. Citizens today present us with a motion of two points and that above all to the title poses the state of education. And looking at the title, you can come to think that obviously themes will emerge, I would say, transcendental – at least in my opinion – for education, as they may be, so, fears of inclusiveness, of strengthening the link, for example, between education and health – and more after the pandemic – or as we work on education success; and all the problem we have with early school dropout, which is the issue of fracás, the FP... That is to say, you are afraid that all of us here would find much to like because they are fears that they will worry and deal with us, and together we consider them to be the key to this true state of education. But it's not really like that. That's to say, they do touch a whole bunch of points that obviously speak of education, but in the background here there are three themes that are camouflaged for us, let's say, red lines, which is why, obviously, we won't give any kind of support to this young man. A first point, that we do not find ourselves, therefore, comfortable people above all, is that they speak of the freedom of choice of center, but that in the background it is clearly demonstrated here that Ciutadans..., that in the background he no longer signed the pact of school segregation, this possibility to take this great step that it is for the education system to enter the pact of school segregation, because in the background that guarantees is fairness and also, in the background, gives the same opportunities for all children. Another point, that we don't feel comfortable with, is to apply the sentence of 25 percent of the castle to the classrooms, obviously. And we, let's say, like you always know that we demand, therefore, linguistic immersion, which is the defense of the català, today I thought that to finish donating data, to see how the linguistic immersion system does have and has given its successes, you would want to remember the last data of basic competitions of the ESO quarter of the course 20-21. In the background, it shows that the education system provides the comparable knowledge of what is català and castella. The data from Catalonia is 76,5_percent of the català and 78_percent of the castle. Moreover, it is believed that the majority of students even have..., the vast majority are at the middle level, and even territorially – that I know that they are very concerned about them – is also fully balanced. Finally, I'll make a little more in the territory. I would say to you..., for example, at Baix Llobregat, the catalá is a 76,4_per_cent; Catalunya Central, from which I win, a 77,8_per_cent. And in the castle, the Baix Llobregat would be a 76,6_per_cent, and in Central Catalonia a 78,8_per_cent. I'm sure they'll be surprised at these data. That's why we... let's just leave it, let's just... let's just tell ourselves that we're sick of lying and manipulating what the Catalan reality is. The Catalan language has never been a problem in Catalonia and, on the other hand, we all know that the only language that is minority in Catalonia is Catalan. We all know that we cannot fully live our lives in all the spheres of life in Catalan and, in change, in castle, we do find ourselves. But we do have a problem with català, and it is, above all – and this has been seen, so, recently, with diagnosis and study – the decrease in the use of català at the educational centers. This is why, from the advice desk, a plan will be set up to increase the use in all school contexts, in the centres and classrooms, of the Catalan language. And lastly, the last thing you're referring to, which would be to reprimand the counselor, I'd say you're already wearing, so, the last full trying reprimands, right? They tried with the president, now I'm coming, so I'm trying with the counselor. And I'd say it all came from, huh? , with this way of doing politics. And, of course, I wish you another weakness; they held it with the President and the Councillor. You have decided – and long ago you have decided – a way of doing politics. Obviously – and he also told me my partner with the president's reprobation – so that going this way – and I'm telling you the same – went to its extinction. But, of course, each school has its own way of doing politics. We, like Junts, will continue to work for education, working to improve what is the education of our country in a constructive way, in a way, so..., for the great bet of the country, to do, obviously, what we want: a better country and, above all, a free country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.101.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.102.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, for many years. MPs, MPs... Well, deputy Martín Blanco – good morning – vote in favour, let's say, of any point of this young man, who starts with a reprobation of Councillor Cambray and ends, a little more, to question the Catalan language model, would represent assuming the overall content of the young man as a valid tool for building a country's educational model. And it's more than just reality. We will vote against all the motion, because it expresses all the elements that describe his country's educational proposal, obviously; with points that, a priori, might seem to show a certain concern for the Catalan education model, but that only seeks to generate controversy. Or this or disconnection of the same educational system. Let's notice a few points of his face with which we can't disagree any more. First of all, looking for the reprobation of a counselor who encapsulates the council is only new, when they simply do not share the compliment of their government plan, expressed already who is the direct will of this young man. So, yes, the unwillingness to be able to come to an agreement. Councillor Cambray and the members of his department – and, in fact, the whole government – work for a Catalan education model, republic, that ages for a system of equity, including and that promotes freedom, critical student experience and respect for Catalan language and culture. And they won't be moved to fulfill the commitments and historical demands of the educational community; requests that have many different interlocutors, many different interests. Therefore, it is mandatory, on the part of those who have the responsibility to govern, to take decisions and to agree as many as possible. Examples of these historical requests: for the first time, the Catalan education system will lower the rates to the classrooms; it advances towards educational gratuity, starting the coming course for children 2, and the advancement of the school year, opening the period of study and, at the same time, giving response to the demand of families – historical requests from families and the educational community. We fight the excessive pause that is generated between two courses and generate equal opportunities. Secondly, as this government advances towards the republican educational transformation, in this case clearly feminist, you continue to try to generate conflict in working spaces, seek to load consensus and attack the linguistic model to the Catalan schools; a model, which we have already said thousands of times since this faristol, success, generator of equality of opportunity and social cohesion. Leave the Catalan school already in pau. Rather than using the Catalan language and education of our country to draw 'electoral revenue and erode the social cohesion of our country. And, thirdly, they want to flag the defense of the concerted school, but only to defend what you say the "freedom of choice of families, from their liberal view of education. They are not interested in whether segregation can occur in these centres, or the work done by these concerted centres to eliminate this segregation, or whether the curricula are adapted or not adapted to what the law determines. Nor should they be valued as positive that, regardless of the centre's ownership, from now on all the students valued and identified as vulnerable will be accompanied by an economic amount, a password with all resources. And that's gonna happen. But you don't care about that. Miri, other topics: qualifications. Also talk about the qualifications for the sense of duty and the culture of effort. Miri, this isn't passed on from the qualifications, the culture of effort. And I assure you of the modesty of division years in the classrooms. This is transmitted day by day in classrooms, to the sickle, to complementary activities, through the example given by teachers and teachers to their pupils every day. This is not promoted through a rating note. They're talking about removal of modules. Say it there, just: I'm done demagogic. You know what the department's premise is and what the infrastructure planning is. And, finally, as much as you seek to pursue polemic and soroll, don't worry, because this government..., this counciler has the clear direction and goes for work, because we have a lot of it; Republican policies: facilitating family reconciliation and improving student learning, cross-feminist perspective– I mean, president–, to help members of families who carry the most with the care of infants and young women, women. More things: reduction of ration, free education and reinforcement of the language education model. And that's just the principle. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.103.0	So finally, to pronounce himself on the exams, has the parable of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.104.0	Thank you, President. Well, very quickly. Some things are said from separatist parties that I think are absolutely inconsistent. When they tell us to demand or demand the right to live fully in català, I tell them one thing: I don't even have the right to live fully in castle neither the will – nor the will. I live in a society that is multilingual, but that is essentially bilingual, in which the vast majority of Catalans have Catalan or castle as mother tongues; some have at home all two languages, we speak them in an absolutely natural way, we live with all two languages not only with normality, but with affection for all two languages. And, therefore, I don't have the right to live fully in the castle, in conscious soc, and not the wish, I don't want the right to live fully in the castle. I'm telling you, because I think it's important, when you say that you want the right to live fully in Catalan, that you know what you're saying. Mrs. Freixa tells me yes with the head. I think: it is actually that this is linguistic nationalism, quite simply; it is an idea to try to make society fit into its Volksgeist nationalist motelle, into its motelle of cultural nationalism, that what they claim is that Catalan society is entirely Catalan speaking and that no one speaks Spanish. I believe that this is a difficult problem for you to conceive of reality. And they will already explain to me how, an essentially bilingual society like Catalan society, must be more cohesive, it must be a more respectful society with its plurality, with these demands of a right, of a supposed right to live fully in Catalan. I insist, I will never defend the right to live fully in the castle; I will defend the right of the citizens of Catalonia to have an education, a model of linguistic conjunction in Catalan and in the castle and the requirement that public administrations respect the pluralism of Catalan society, both in Catalan and in the castle, but never a supposed right to live in one of the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.105.0	Very well; therefore, after the debate, we shall proceed to the votes of the motions which were tabled this morning, which are items 16 to 19 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need for a new just financing (continuation)]] [[302-0003/13]] We shall begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government on the need for a new just financing. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 has not been approved, with 42 votes in favour, 78 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved with 78 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 27 abstentions. We're voting point number 3a now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 39 votes in favour, 18 against and 70 abstentions. Let's vote point four. The vote begins. Point 4 was not approved, with 7 votes in favour, 88 votes against and 32 abstentions. We now vote on points 5 and 6. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 46 votes in favour and 81 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 47 votes in favour, 18 against and 62 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 7 votes in favour and 120 votes against. Finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were not approved, with 39 votes in favour and 88 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the financing exclusion (cont'd)]] [[302-00106/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the funding exclusion. We'll start by voting point number one, encapsulation included. The vote begins. This point was approved with 127 votes in favour. We're voting now on the 1 bis point, letter d. The vote begins. This point was approved with 77 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 47 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the 1a point, the letters a, b and c. The vote begins. This point was approved with 109 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 15 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved with 127 votes in favour. We're voting points 3 and 4. The vote begins. These points were approved with 116 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the activities of the Department of Economics and History in relation to the assumptions of the Generality (continuation)]] [[302-0109/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the activities of the Department of Economics and History in relation to the assumptions of the Generality. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 47 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 64 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 116 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of education (continuation)]] [[302-0004/13]] Let's proceed to vote on the new point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the state of education. And before voting point 1, ask the first secretary to proceed to the reading, as requested by Mr Martín Blanco. [[Widow's remorse. Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.106.0	I'm sorry, all of you. "The Parliament of Catalonia rejects the way in which Councillor Josep González conducted himself in the establishment of the new school calendar for the 2022-2023 course, which was characterized by the imposition and the absolute lack of dialogue with the different sectors of the educational community.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.107.0	The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 18 votes in favour, 70 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 18 votes in favour, 77 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting 8 and 9 points now. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 18 votes in favour and 109 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 50 votes in favour and 77 votes against. And finally we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were not approved, with 57 votes in favour and 70 votes against. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.108.0	Let's resume the session with the twenty-point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation in the agricultural sector and to the]] [[302-00105/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the situation in the agricultural sector and the Ramader, presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. He has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.109.0	Good afternoon, President. Members... in VOX we have one thing clear. You cannot be in favour of the field and at the same time in favour of the 2030 agenda; they are totally incompatible things. The primary sector is being severely affected by those 2030 agenda postulates that tell us how we have to eat, how we have to dress and how we have to produce our fields. Thanks to their ecological transition and their climate religion, our farmers are sinking, our primary sector is becoming poorer and production costs are far above prices. There is no profitability. And yet our farmers see how products from third countries are allowed to enter treated with plant protection prohibited for them. If we leave the countryside, if we leave our farmers, our farmers and our fishermen, our country and our sovereignty are lost. The Government has not been able to respond to the need to establish fair prices for our products, has not helped to contain production costs, has not been able to curb speculation, has not promoted sufficient aid to the sector and has not moved a finger to plant in the face of the blatant unfair competition that imports of products from other parts of the world entail. You focus on your climate delusions, your ruin agenda, your imaginary waterloo-based republic. You focus on creating a fund to pay the fines of your fellow thugs and criminals, instead of worrying about our farmers, farmers and fishermen. From here I would like to take the opportunity to address them, our farmers, our farmers, our fishermen and our entire primary sector. I would like to tell you that VOX is now in Parliament to speak and work on his behalf. Therefore, in this motion we have put forward seven initiatives, and I will state some of them: to implement the necessary legislative, regulatory, economic and fiscal measures to prevent primary sector companies from selling their products below the production price; to promote a specific plan to encourage generational relief in the direction and management of small agricultural and livestock enterprises; to reduce administrative and bureaucratic processes during the creation and maintenance of projects and business initiatives; to take appropriate measures to modernise and complete the pending works of all those irrigation channels in the region, especially the Segarra-Garrigues Canal; to urge the Government of Spain to promote at European level the necessary measures to strengthen border controls for all third country products coming into our market; to demand compliance with the existing law on foreign products, strictly complying with import quotas; to promote at European level that foreign products are subject to the same regulations and regulations as Spanish companies and products; to have a national agricultural, livestock and fisheries policy compatible with the common policies of the European Union. Spain may not be subject exclusively to the interests of third countries or to the ideological prejudices of the Brussels lobbies. Ladies and gentlemen, voting ‘no to these initiatives is voting' not to the first social, economic and environmental sector in Catalonia. To vote 'no to these initiatives is to demonstrate once again that they put their ideological paranoia ahead of the well-being of Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.110.0	As no papers have been submitted, she continues to have the word to fix the position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.111.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... VOX's motion, if we don't know VOX, could say that it is a toast, simply, to the sun, that has little effectiveness, because it points to general issues, without concrete measures, time, or resources to face the objectives they say they want to achieve. But we're not fooling each other. VOX, with this young man, who has a clear populist, seeks his objective, which is not the objective of the Catalan camp; it is an electoral objective, obviously. And, mirin, we in their naked populism won't find us there. The agricultural world and the rural world have great challenges ahead, it is true: the viability of farms, which passes through the sale of products at a price above the cost; the generational relay, which precisely passes through the viability of farms and, therefore, because young people want to stay in family farms or to start a new life as pages or pages and branches, branches; better services in the rural, health, education, transport, cures, culture. This is all very important for the Catalan and Spanish agricultural sector, of course. But it is also facing the challenges that we have and that we also have other European countries. The climate change, which you deny, which you even ridicule – and we have seen it in its explanation – is also a challenge for farmers and farmers. This is not just because of the standards which come from the European Union and which mark certain agricultural practices, which are reflected in the CAP. Certainly, the CAP is and has been a strategic policy for the present and for the future of our agricultural sector. You, who have a model almost authentic, are critical; we see it in the House and we have seen it in other interventions. But, obviously, they do not have feasible alternatives; they simply use the criticism of the CAP to attack the common policy, to attack Europe as a common project, without taking into account that we cannot even imagine what would be serious in the modern Catalan agricultural sector – obviously, not in the century in which you live – without the European mark at the end. He said climate change is a challenge for the agricultural sector, for the practices that it is necessary to apply to fight it. But it is for the reality of the day, for how they suffer their consequences pages and branches. And on these days, with the same kick, it becomes more obvious than ever. But there are other challenges, such as, for example, the objective from farm to table, the traceability of products produced with maximum environmental sustainability, with maximum food safety. And the Catalan sector is doing it in an exemplary way. And it's obvious that with this time we have the administration's follow-up, putting in the necessary tools. And one of the most important to be more competitive economically and environmentally is research, innovation and knowledge transfer. And here we have in value the fundamental role of IRTA, a research institute that is within the third higher than the world level in research organizations. Yes, the IRTA, the one that you said you wanted to eliminate. This motion that you present has less sense than ever, if I may, at the time we are living, with a terrible war that directly affects Ukraine, but which also affects and will affect our country, like the rest of European countries. And before that we need to make common fronts, in the State, to the Government of Spain, and to the Government of the Generality, and obviously also to the European Union. We have to work to ensure the sub-administration of those products that arrive from Ukraine and that may not arrive or arrive in less quantity – the Moorish, the Sunflower, for example, or the Adobs – but also the cost of energy, which has a direct impact, obviously, on agricultural production. The Government of Spain and the Minister of Agriculture, Minister Planas, are working in this sense, and they are working together with European partners and in coordination with the autonomous communities. Because with the joint action being stronger and we can face the difficulties we have now in the best way, just like we did with the covid. I suppose they won't be surprised if we tell them we'll vote against this young man, and it's not because of ideological prejudice, I can assure you. We did so because we do not share his social, political, economic or agricultural model. We want a modern, professional agriculture and industry that consolidates the family model and co-operatives, with economically viable and medium-environmentally viable farms. In short, a model that's not his. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.112.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr.Dani Cornellà has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.113.0	Thank you, President. Well, responding to this young man, first of all, saying that he didn't find an exhibition part of us that obviously showed climate denial that we're used to his party. And I was surprised you didn't show off, did you? From this climate negationism, they see that nothing happens here and that nuclear is green energy, as you think. I'm a stranger. But no, finally, of course, you've drawn your four false slogans, which no scientist gives you support, because they're lying, like a lot of things they say, right? In fact, his report is based, basically, on lies, populism... And harm with you, head, head, not one. We know exactly who they are and what they represent. That is why we have no harm and we are very clear that we will always vote for it if we do not. They're talking about four fears that you're going to get, that you're... that you're surprised, aren't you? But, as always, barren fears. He talks about the importance of the Segarra-Garrigues channel. Well, I know, they don't know him very well, as this project has been. A project that's more than 20 years old than... and we still have it that way. The second largest project in the history of the Generalitat, at an economic cost and which, as you know, is recently coming out to the pressure for its overcost, which is enormous. I mean, we're talking more than 337 million euros overcost. We're publicly opposed to this channel. We think we're still in time..., instead of continuing with the secondary network, we think the best thing would be to put up with it and rethink it – which is already done, so it's already done – because in the end, for so much that you in the youth talk about small and small..., small agricultural businesses and branches, really what..., we already know everything they defend. You defend this channel because, obviously, this channel will not supply the small and medium-sized; it will provide the large agri-food businesses, which are precisely the ones that sink this market that we defend from the page and the branch, this grove to the territory, the one that takes care of and ages for our country. Also, it's like, beyond this young man, they're presenting us, of course, with national agricultural, fishing and fishing policies. Clearly, when you speak of a national, you know perfectly well what you speak of, because you are Spanish nationalists before all; I mean, you are a Spanish nationalist party. We do think that national policies are going down, obviously – and that's what we said to the president, isn't it? – but they call national policies to the country we live, in Catalonia. They keep clear policies that have not been made during all these years to hold..., to ensure that our page sector, which in twenty years has retreated more..., up to fifty_per_cent, therefore, bears this constant sign. And that's what's in national policies for Catalonia, not for the Spanish State, which is the one who has the skills. And that's how things go, isn't it? It is obvious that if Catalonia had its own powers or was an independent state, we could do the policies that we really believe would serve to enhance those national policies that we really need, right? But we don't have to go looking for them in Madrid, but we have to negotiate them with the pagesia of our territory, with the unions that represent, therefore, this pagesia and with the sovereignty of this Parliament. And this is where we need to look for these solutions and make these necessary policies, and not with reasons like yours, which would have to be presented to Congress more quickly and not here to the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.114.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.115.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Well, VOX presents to us this young man, which is a clear example of the populism of Drets loaded with contradictions. And I want to read, for example, the first point; it says to us: "Implementation of the regulatory legislative measures necessary to prevent companies in the primary sector..., such, such, such. "Implementation of regulatory legislative measures. I to the fourth point we say: « Eliminate legislative over-production and over-regulation. What are we staying at? We rule it out, don't we? Clearly, you're planting a whole series of highly protectionist and anti-European measures here – that's clear – but at the same time you're also making deep neoliberal speeches, because here you want to regulate the market – what we agree with, certainly, huh? – to avoid, therefore, for example, the sale to losers. But then you're the first ones to tell us that we can never intervene on the market. Therefore, they have a confusion in their populism that surprise us. In any case, we want to take advantage of the motion to put some questions on the table, don't we? The first is that we do not share the look you have on the rural world, because you have started to express yourself here whether we were concerned or not about the camp. Clearly, I do not know what you mean by the camp, but clearly it seems that in the camp, in the rural world, there is only the primary sector, while those who live in the rural world know perfectly well that if something is important, it is also the industrial sector, the tertiary sector, that if we want to repopulate the rural world, what it is to diversify and not to put all our efforts solely into one sector. Certainly, agriculture, as you know, does not rise to u per cent of GDP. Another thing is the agri-food sector, which we do believe needs to be diversified and enhanced in these areas, especially in terms of green economy and technological innovation, right? We also deeply disagree with you in the agricultural model and gather that you defend. You are clearly advocates of agriculture clearly intensive, aren't you? , because as you deny that they are – and have shown us in their exposure to climate change – what they defend is that agriculture, therefore, that it is intensive in the use of water – as they also defend us in some points of this motion – intensive also in the use of energy and as if the natural systems do not have any capacity to charge and are able to absorb all the impact that generates this agricultural model that you defend. We defend another model, because we are aware, precisely, of the impacts that intensive agriculture is generating in this country. For example, in comarques like Osona, where the pig sector, therefore, is clearly oversized – it is a region with 150,000 inhabitants and 800,000 pigs; therefore, much more pigs than people – in which half of the fonts are contaminated by nitrates. And what it takes is to be aware of this reality and resize the pig cabin, because among other things... another thing you say, right? I mean, we have to be protectionists and avoid imports, but the agricultural sector and keep Catalonia basically alive from exports. Therefore, you will already explain to me how we do not let them import us and, in change, live only from exports as we are now living, depending on very specific markets. And it was demonstrated in the case of the pressec, when there was the Russian veto of 14th and the impact it had on the sector the fact that it had only apostate for a single cult – in that case, the pressec cult – and in the case of Osona – returning where he spoke to them – basically, the export that is produced in the Chinese market, that the day that we fail to have clearly problems in the region. I did, didn't I? Therefore, what we believe is to rethink, resize the piggy bank, but also to bet on the green economy, such as the University of Vic with the BETA Technology Centre, so, betting on research, how to treat purins, how to generate new economy from the treatment of purins. And we think this is the way we have to go, the way we have to go. Therefore, innovation, be aware of the impacts of the agricultural sector, bet for the rural world from its diversity and manage the impacts generated by the sector. Therefore, the support for the primary sector does not pass through the model that you are defending us here, but through comprehensive policies that are capable, therefore, of rethinking and actually betting for an agriculture and a branch of the 21st century, of the future, and not a past model as you present us in this young man. That is why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.116.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.117.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with one, another motion of VOX well imbued with political adanism, which we are so accustomed to. Go ahead that, in some of the points, read in a paused way and without prejudice, so we have found some slight hint of coincidence. You usually put your proposals in terms impregnated with ideological bias, with a proliferation of common places and with the usual doses of protectionism, anti-liberalism and anti-Europeanism that characterize your political action. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we could have tabled some amendment, as we have done in other plenary sessions with some of its motions. But we have already been in the legislature for a few months, we have already seen the modus operandi of the proposing group. VOX, when you look at the mirror, you think you're right, all the reason and nothing but the reason. If you make an amendment to a VOX proposal, even with the bold claim to improve it, you don't even say 'no'. The amendments that we have tabled to you before some of your proposals have been silenced in response, because there is nothing like being absolutely right, once we have made the diagnosis of any political issue that they consider necessary to include in the parliamentary debate. Nor is this motion an exception. They give you a tour of your program, your diagnostic compendium, pour it into a motion, and that's it. So, aware of that reality, of that adanism which has the right solution for any situation, in whatever field, we have abstained on this occasion from tabling amendments. Having said that, it will not be us who steal the democratic debate, so I will go on to assess the proposals of this motion and to position the vote of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group on this. The motion begins with a lost number of proposals for the Catalonian Parliament to urge the Government of the Generalitat to take action. At least that is what seems to come out of the drafting of the motion. The first point is that the Government of the Generalitat implements the necessary legislative, regulatory, economic and fiscal measures to prevent companies in the primary sector from selling their products below the cost of production. In fact, you know that it is not allowed to sell products below the cost price, so it is probably an unnecessary measure. In any case, we shall vote in favour. The second point calls on the Government of the Generalitat to strengthen transport infrastructure in rural Catalonia, abandoned by successive ex-governments. There is no doubt that it is necessary and appropriate to strengthen transport infrastructure in general, and in particular in rural areas. So yes, we will vote in favour, even though we know that the measure will not be adopted. The third point is an approximation to the problem of generational relief which has been suffering from agricultural and livestock activity for too long. What we have proposed in this paragraph has been proposed and even repeatedly approved in several Parliaments. We have always supported him and will continue to support him. Paragraph 4 calls for regulatory and administrative rationalisation, without doubt one of the fundamental requirements of good public administration. We will support it, as we have also proposed and supported it repeatedly during the last parliamentary term. In fact, Ciutadans came to this Parliament in the eighth legislature, in November 2006, with this demand for regulatory and administrative rationalization under his arm. It won't be approved today, but it won't stay for us. Point 5 talks about waterings and the Segarra-Garrigues channel. In this matter, there is a lot of cloth to cut. It is appropriate to ask the Government of the Generalitat to take appropriate measures to modernize and complete irrigation works. Perhaps some reference should have been made to the necessary transparency and control of the costs of these works, which are far from being an example of efficiency and good management. We will also support point 7.d, which seems to be asking Parliament to urge the Government of Spain to support the agri-food industry. From a competitive point of view it does not fit too well, but, well, from a competitive point of view we have seen much worse things in this Parliament. The other sections, I regret to say to you that, impregnated as they are with their usual ideological prejudices and their markedly anti-European bias, we are not going to support them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.118.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.119.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. We're going to be brief. The truth is that the motion seems relevant to us. We agree on virtually all the points, with some very minimal exception. But I insist that it seems to us a correct motion, and that I do have to admit that I was surprised by some of the speeches that I have heard this afternoon, especially after seeing, therefore, the unfortunate statements that just a few weeks ago the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón, said, with a totally unfortunate attack, inappropriate, in which he looked at the meat products exported by Spain in poor quality. He did it during an interview in the British medium The Guardian. Statements that obviously outraged the whole sector, also here in Catalonia, where the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia, therefore, even called for the resignation of the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón. And I must say that at that time I missed a strong condemnation of Councilwoman Jordà, especially in defense, I insist, of our farmers, especially considering that Catalonia exports more than fifty_and_one_per_cent of the volume of the total value of meat that we export from Spain, represents a turnover of 8,400_million, represents four_per_cent of Catalan GDP and gives employment to 35,000 people. I think it is also important to remember that Catalonia produces more than 2 million tonnes of meat, being the second largest producer in Europe. Therefore, those who came here today were tearing their clothes off of how worried they are about the situation of the sector, in this case a farmer in Catalonia, because perhaps they should avoid these kinds of statements that, I insist, do a great deal of damage. If we also focus on the agricultural sector, we are having a very difficult time. In fact, they are already dragging a complicated structural situation, but it has also worsened with the drought that we are experiencing in recent months, which can affect the production of winter cereal. And, in fact, they're already warning us about this fact. And to this drought must also be added the situation that we are living on an international level with the invasion of Ukraine. They spoke before..., it was commented, it was talked about the IRTA. And IRTA has also warned in this issue about these two aspects, how this water stress can affect crops and also how it will affect this commodity price crisis, I insist, arising from the conflict we are seeing as a result of this invasion of Russia into Ukraine. Both the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives and the Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, the JARC, have manifested themselves that they are, of course, as we could all expect..., because this crisis has a full impact on our crops, in the agricultural sector, not only because of the increase, for example, of the fertilizers, of what has also been talked about in this forum this afternoon, but also, for example, of animal feed. We have a deficit to feed the sector, livestock, and these cereals that we use for this food come mostly from Ukraine. It is therefore vital to be able to generate food on farms. Let's see what's left of it. I think maybe we'll have to keep talking about this in the next few weeks. We will certainly have to think about opening specific funding lines, I insist, in order to alleviate this increase in costs. And, therefore, as I was saying, a motion that seems entirely appropriate to us in the context we are living in. And that is why we, as I said at the beginning, are going to support almost all of its points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.120.0	Thank you very much. I, then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs Anna Feliu.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.121.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, the agricultural sector and Catalan branching is one of Europe's leading food clusters and a foundational pillar for the economic development of our country, not only for the high volume of business, but also for generating a high level of employment and export. And that's why our pages and branches do the job well, with all the guarantees of safety and quality agri-food, that allow us to maintain a high level of excellence. The Government of Catalonia has as its priority to ensure that pages and branches can live from their work, knowing the difficulties of a globalized world, in which what passes to other countries also affects us. It is only possible to see how the war in Ukraine is increasing production costs, with the price of pinsos and fuels being charged, to which the high cost of fertilizers and fertilizers must also be added for some camps that are also suffering a great deal. And it's precisely at times like these when society has to give more value than ever to the work that our pages and branches do. We have to give value and support to native production, because the country needs products that are good before inconsistent and unstable markets. They are, therefore, very complicated times for everyone, for both producers and consumers, because the prices of the products of usual consumption will get involved and, unfortunately, not only because the costs of production increase, but also because there are speculative movements on the markets. For this reason, it is necessary to ensure that food chains with fair prices are not lower than the cost of production, and this has been working for some time. In fact, last month the Law 13/2021 was published, in order to establish precisely the measures to prevent abusive commercial practices. Certainly, surprised, Member, that he came here to claim fair prices, when VOX voted against the law of the food chain at the Congress of Deputies, which precisely introduced the prohibition of sale with losers. Therefore, they do not make so many skirmishes or complain to Catalonia that they do not vote in Spain; they do not want to deceive and confuse people. As I said, we are in a global world, and Europe, through the CAP, will also have to age because resources and help get where it is needed. And to do so Catalonia has always asked the Spanish State to allow us to define the model of the CAP according to the needs of the Catalan territory. And it has been asked repeatedly, because we understand that decisions need to be taken in order to be able to respond to needs and provide opportunities. But, unfortunately, the Spanish State has always said that the CAP model must be the same for all territories, applying a centralist criterion. So, first of all, take a good look at how things work before you talk and complain where you need to do it. We've got a lot on our backs, and work is going on. Should we speed up bureaucratic and administrative procedures? Yes, but it is also important that the Spanish State does not enter Catalonia into competition in the field of industry and agriculture, because this only leads to duplicity of legislation, which could be avoided. Since the Office of Business Management there has been a constant and profound effort to simplify administrative burdens, and many processes have also been telemattized to facilitate access and immediate action. More reptiles, more reptiles, We can continue to work in the modernization of the irrigation canals, such as the Pinyana canal; we have just set aside the Xerta-Sénia; the modernization of the Urgell canal, and the extension of the Segarra-Garrigues channel, basic and essential irrigation systems for the agricultural development of our territories. Because pages to produce need water. Here, Congressman, we work for our pages and branches and for the rural world, and we will always be at your side, looking for solutions to your problems. They do not, in fact, serve their populist and anti-independence proclamations using pages and branches, because our sector does not deserve this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.122.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.123.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Evidently, Esquerra Republicana will always declare a round-up to the rural world, a round-up to the pagesia and the primary sector, a round-up to balance and territorial justice. But obviously, Esquerra Republicana will say a no-round to any model that wants to impose on us the extreme right, a no-round, therefore, to the totality of this motion. But, still, I want to take advantage of these five minutes that I have to explain exactly what rurality we've been defending. Before I want to make an observation, it is that in the interventions that have preceded me I have heard about farmers, rowers, pages, but I have not heard at the moment about farmers, rowers, pages. [[Some applause.]] And it's precisely - it's precisely - these people I want to talk about, all of them, I want to talk about today. Ruralities and feminisms are indestriable. The role of the woman in the rural world is key to hearing where we are. A patriarchal society has made it invisible and has lost it, but there is, and it cannot explain the current reality without this referent. In fact, I take up a phrase from the author María Sánchez who says that ‘the women of the global south are, in short, the ones who feed the world. So, how can we omit this part of the story and the present that is so important? The story that we have after is written from some male eyes. The masculinism, the schisheteropatriarchate, invades everything, both urban and rural spaces. Feminisms fight it cross-sectionally and must be remembered. It is time to give it the value it has, to rebuild the imaginary collection and, finally, to learn that some practices that already end our lives can be the answer to many of the folds that we have in our hands. Our friends – and I'm talking about my immediate context – had a double newspaper: first, they did tasks linked to the cure and, then, a return to the factory, and when they could go out to the street with the chair to run with the veins that lived and carried a very similar life. They shared, socialized and cost each other. Sorority in pure state. The woman already follows that she has incorporated into the world of work, and not as a consequence of industrialization, which is what has always been explained. Our avies were essential and were the engine of work in the camp. Unfortunately, all this past, all this collective and popular knowledge has become a symptom of disconnection, stagnation and, even more so, of inculturation, when, in fact, there was more culture than place. The people we've grown up in rural surroundings have made us great with the idea that if you wanted to move forward, you'd have to study outside, look for work and professional opportunities outside. The rural exodus, unfortunately, was a symptom of professional and personal success. Now the future of the rural world does not pass through a romantic teletreball, it passes above all through the "terratreball" – and I take another look at a concept of the María Sánchez –, it goes to promote a modern role of the guardians of the territory, it passes through union, cooperativeism and associationism. Feminism is soft and, for example, the Association of Dones del Món Rural wants to put on the table the double discrimination they suffer: for women and rural people. He wants to break stereotypes and assert his vision as earth's workers. It wants to manifest the need to reconcile the rural and urban world, two realities not so long extended and often separated with a fictional and interested barrier. We're part of the same ecosystem and we're interdependent. A women's association that wants to give value to small and medium-sized farms. They work, therefore, to rake people to the territories from a sustainable perspective in all senses. We're going for it. Each time there are more women who are professionally dedicated to the primary sector; brave women, empowered, rural women, ramaderes, farmers. But gene stereotypes are still in place. Rural women suffer, in their day-to-day life, from the constant questioning of their professional pocket. I'm here to change it. Let me make a point. Since 1977 there have been thirteen agricultural councils. The first eleven were men, until Councillor Meritxell Serret arrived, and Teresa Jordan followed him, who were the first women councillors and the first republicans. That's where it starts, too. I refuse to speak again of rurality without speaking of a future based on equal opportunities, social justice and sustainable economic models. To put the collectivity for the sake of individualism passes, indisputably, to always take a feminist look at the rural world. Because those who are leading the struggle in the rural world are women, because those who are leading the struggle for environmental sustainability are women, and those who are fighting for food sovereignty and a balanced territory are also women. Conclusion: the rural world will be feminist or not. And, finally, I take up a phrase from the Ramaderes of Catalonia, another network of sorority of women who lead the rural world, which says: "We say that we are the present, that we are the future, that every time we are stronger and stronger. The women are the first line. No pastors have revolutions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.124.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will be somewhere late, once the twenty-three point of the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into wildlife and its impact on the agricultural world]] [[302-0108/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the saving fauna and its impact on the agricultural world, which the Socialists and Units Group presented to us to advance. And you have the word to expose it to Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.125.0	Thank you, President. Before I start, Congresswoman Camps, review the session log because I talked about farmers and farmers and rowers and rowers, huh? So, there's someone who did talk about women here. Well, we present the motion following the inquiry about the consequences of saving fauna in the agricultural world; an inquiry that posed the difficult consequences that the proliferation of these kinegetic species entails on the agriculture and the branch of the country, but above all that posed the difficult risk that there may be to the transmission of diseases from some of these species, as can be the commonality with African swine fever. It seems that it was a very timely inquiry, because then it was called – for the department – to explain to us that a plan was being drawn up on this issue – it seems. A plan that, for which we have been able to prove, sets out the very solutions that were already in place in the 2017 plan, but that is confined, from the outset, to the control of the signlar. Therefore, it will be an exclusively signular plan. If it is said that it could be extended to other species, but when we hear this area we should already have a much wider scope, because, if well the commoner is the species that has the most incidence in the name of accidents and also in possible damages, there are other species, like the deer, that are also actually a problem. A plan, therefore, that little has anything new respect for the eine that already existed. So, what's the novelty that brings us this plan? So now it looks like resources have been put in place, by the way. Thus, five years have been lost, five years in which many of these kinegetic species have increased. The reason we present them today coincides in many points with what I gave them from the 2017 plan and which seems to say or to be approved. From the outset, the questioner is that the plan is reviewed, which seems to be being done, and asks that the actions be temporary and that the necessary resources be put in place. Secondly, we ask for the immediate deployment of the Special Group on Cinematic Management and Capture of Animals, to the Rural Agents Cos, which was created in 2015 and which today has not yet been deployed. But we're actually asking because we see that it's impossible for hunters to control populations of kinegetic species with the action of hunters, and because we understand that the deployment of this group of Rural Agents would also bring security to kinegetic action. And this point would also be related to what we ask: that it is declared the kinegetic emergence in the areas beyond the population shields established in the resolution of sees. If who is the cinegetic holder is not able to control them, we understand that this special group of rural agents have to do it, and that is why they have to be deployed, obviously. We are also planning a new hunting law project, because the one we currently have is from the 1970s, ladies and gentlemen – from the 1970s, from the past century – and therefore I do not respond to the social reality and the reality of the current kinetic activity. We need to open the debate on hunting, on the positive contributions of this activity, on this land; on its future, which seems to be a step backwards, and to assess what consequences this has in rural areas. The same way that you can improve the profit of hunting meat, a meat that is of high quality and that can't be spoiled. That hunters have more logistics because they can collect fish and enter the market. And, at times, we have to find the media to make the hunt compatible with other uses of the natural environment. In the interview, we pointed out the creation of a tool with which we could communicate the calls to sign, for example, and which we could consult with those people who want to do activities in the free area, to know that the addresses where they were safe. A few weeks ago there was a unfortunate accident in Maresme, with some terrible consequences, which makes it more obvious than ever that it needed. And I take this opportunity to greet the family members of Mr. Francesc Jiménez, who was injured in this terrible accident. It seems that the department has taken this idea, that it is working in this direction, and we celebrate it. This has to be one more tool that has to enter into the protocols that have to be essential for singular beats. We also talked about the subject of the sarna to the goats of the ports of Tortosa-Beseit. And if we are talking about consequences and damage caused by wildlife, we also need to talk about how we compensate the people who suffer these damage. In our view, we believe that the compensation system should be reviewed so that the damage is totally covered and that, moreover, it is done for a system that is easy and fast. Therefore, it is necessary to put a thread on the needle at a time. We've lost 50 years... or we've had a law more than 50 years ago, we've lost five years on a platter that hasn't been deployed, we've lost seven years of the Special Group for the Cinegetic Management of Rural Agents, that hasn't been deployed. And, therefore, it's time for the department to do its dues, because there are too many pending dues, and with that we have some problems on the table, with totally uncontrolled populations and a hunting situation that really needs to be improved. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.126.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.127.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Even though the census is unreliable, in the last few years we have doubled the name of singles in Catalonia: at this time we have between 200 and 250,000, and two thirds of which are in Girona's comarques, concretely with a density of twelve animals per square kilometer, for example, in the Garrotxa region, which is the place, let's say, where I win. And what problems does this overpopulation of senglars and other species of wildlife, with everything, cabirols, rabbits, etc., represent? So, first of all, damage to land and camps. I've been visiting these days with pages of ruined camps, and, really, that we should help them, and not just opting for assurances, as the judge says, but also, for example, with tax exemptions. The second problem, transmissions of diseases to the animal: tuberculosis, trichinosis, brucellosis..., but above all the African swine fever, which if you arrive – and there is already a case here quite close, north of Italy – would be apocalyptic for the pig sector. And the third problem, traffic accidents. He didn't give it to Catalonia every day, and most of them are provoked by slanglar. And what solution do we have? So, with the shades I'm going to do right now, we're off the hook. And this is a subject that awakens many sensitivities, that we need to know how to respect and contemplate. And, look, I myself come from years of conceptually being against hunting. For a band, I'm going to run to the mountain and, therefore, I have to be alert; I engrave the saved animals in the woods and, therefore, I'm sorry. But, on the other hand, like pages we're at home, so I'm spoiling in the first person the wreckage they make at our camps. And my realistic conclusion is that, without beatings, from 250,000 to one hundred thousand, that it would be a population that we would consider balanced, we would not get out of it. That we caused this imbalance by humans, eliminating predators and modifying natural spaces? That's right, that's obvious. And, therefore, we need to intensify, from now on, all measures that are much more aesthetic, fund measures, such as, for example, enhancing agroforestry mosaics, improving the trophic pyramid, immunocontraception or, for example, cleaning the margins and cleaning the basement. But without a shoal that's the basis of the hunt, it's impossible. Personally, I'm against purely sports hunting, and here every guy has his opinion. But, without a hunt that goes on, u, professional, and, two, which is based on the profit of meat, we still won't get out of it today. And when we say professional, what do we mean? So, for example, the figure of the expert hunter for special baptisms, as it contemplates the strategic plane of the senglar, which is a plate that will need to be replicated for the rest of the species; the deployment of the special group of rural agents; security protocols in natural spaces for baptisms... All these are points of the young man, but also that the pages can manage, and in an agile way, the control of the senglar. Also update the vetoes – very important – or create a geolocation application of these batons to improve the security of everyone who wants to be active in the natural environment. And we also focus on the benefit of meat. What does that mean? So that hunters' glues can pull the guts out of dead animals and keep them cold at their premises, and that we improve the logistics of this meat harvest. And help the country's escorts and defunct salts that work with hunting meat and one of which I visited a little while ago. All folded, to improve the quality of meat and prestige it. That's how hunting can recover and take its ancestral sense. Let's keep it real – and that's what a rower tells you –: there's no meat more than zero mileage, more ecological and with a greater animal welfare possible than hunting meat. That's it. Whenever we manage it properly. And if we do so, if we make a good profit for food while we are always shielding safety, obviously – and I also take advantage of giving a lot of strength to the family members of Francesc, who suffered a bad accident – then if we make a good profit as food while professionally regulating overpopulation, hunting, then I do take the feeling at this point. And, in a different way – I also want to say – that still today is allowed to hunt the guilla, that it is a rabbit predator, simply because it kills our chickens or because there is someone who considers it fun, this seems to me to be intolerable. I'm done, President. It will therefore be necessary to lay down, therefore, a hunting law which contemplates all this, a hunting law which progressively adapts the measures and prohibitions depending on the degree of overpopulation of each species. It can't be that we're still with a 1970 hunting law, Spanish, that's to say, a law when in Putin..., sorry, I mean, when in Franco came out of the hunt. [[Rialles.]] Thank you very much, and not to the invasion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.129.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I'm beginning to regret that today I can't accompany the Climate Action Advisor, given a reason of urgency that came to her and that I know she's made it to the proposed group. Two hundred and thousand copies of singlars are those that are calculated with data from 2019 that there is in Catalonia. A population that has certainly been growing, especially because of the decline in agricultural activity and herding, but also because of its own ability to adapt to the environment of the species, which involves very high reproductive taxes. This increase of singlars, together with that of all other kinegetic fauna such as cabirols, like rabbits, like dams, certainly causes a lot of damage and causes a lot of problems. We are talking about problems such as the hard damage to the conreus and to the branch through their pastures. We talk about problems with traffic accidents; five thousand traffic accidents caused by animals last year, according to data from the Interior Department. A strong impact on biodiversity, since the common pig is omnivorous and, therefore, so much threatens the flora by eating it - or stealing the territory as is eaten by the eggs and the breeds of other species. Disseminate – and it's said here – pathogens, and they can obviously affect other wildlife, but they can also affect the beast and branches, with the serious economic impact that this can have. Provocate – and we all know it – conflicts with towns and cities, because they enter urban areas, with the danger that this involves interacting with people and also the evil meter..., the costs that the evil meter has of urban furniture or gardening. For all this, the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda has created a platform to control its populations, a program that presented us last week the different spokespersons of the Committee on Agriculture and which was later made public. It is a strategic plan for the control of the kinegetic fauna that reinforces and complements measures that have taken place in recent years – I insist, complements and encourages with many other measures – with the will to reduce the population of singlars to a stable name and compatible with the conservation of other species and, above all, with human activities. It's a multidisciplinary plan that includes so many lines of work, because it's the combination of all of them to be able to fulfill the objective, and above all it's a plan that incorporates assumptions, which is something that is always asked – that assumption. This year, 3,7_million euros; 10,7_million euros in the next three years. From these so-called lines of work that carry this strategic plan, I quickly pass on some themes, because obviously I can't get into all of them. But this drafting of the new hunting law is essential – it has already been said, the current one is from the year 1970 – and a new hunting law is needed to achieve sustainable management of ecosystems. We remember that the main method of reducing these populations continues to feel hunting, and yes, we must continue hunting, but yes, this hunting must be safe for everyone. Here I take the opportunity to greet the family of Francesc Jiménez, who suffered the evil accident in a beating, assuring them that, as we have said, des d'Esquerra we will work to achieve that these accidents are not produced and that hunting is a safe activity for all those people who occupy our forests and our ecosystems. In this sense, the creation of the figure of an expert hunter, who has to increase the effectiveness of the beatings, and also the measures of better in the security of these, that will force the hunters to inform of where they are fan, the days and in which places, in order to make this activity compatible with the uses of the natural environment. And, in the same way, the creation by the department of an application where you can consult the caceres. The plan also provides to encourage the consumption of game meat, to put all the actions in order to protect the conreus and to prevent the singlars from accessing the food. It also involves measures to support the gatherings in these problems of arrival of these animals to the populations, as well as economic aids to control their populations with complementary methods to that of hunting, because we also need to be able to solve all these other areas. Aside from all this, another important aspect, such as the whole issue of co-management tables for the control of damage to the different kinegetic species, on ecologists, on hunters, on administration, pages, scientists we have to be able to work folds to find solutions suitable to each territory and to their specific problems. As a member of this whole board, today we are in agreement with this Socialist Group's motion, which obviously – and thanks also, as always, to the Ibarra MP to be able to talk about it and reach an agreement – we will give support to it in its large majority. And we just can't agree with a point, which is in the case of paying for the treatments of the sarcasm in the case of the ports of Tortosa-Beseit. And we can't agree because this was a mid-environmental measure where the domestic bestiary was paid, as if said, by rowing, so as to prevent this measure from reaching the saved goats. This has already reached the saving goats. So, you haven't heard at this hour, this mid-environment measure, and it'll be the only place where we won't match this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.130.0	And after the defense of the papers, he has, then, the word to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.131.0	Good afternoon, President. Members... The PSC presents today a motion concerning wildlife and its incidence in the agricultural world. Let's see. News from the end of 2021: "Plant alert of the unrest in the field with the PSOE for wolf protection. News of 22 January 2022: "The rural world is rebelling against the government. I quote in text: "We are not going to allow some comelechugas to impose their criteria on the people who work and who sweat. News of 16 February this year: « Hard statement from the Federation of Hunting against the Government. He talks about a PSOE humiliated by Podemos. Finally, the truth is that it could go on like this all afternoon, and we would always come to the same conclusion: the Socialist Party, in all its versions, including those of its regional chiefs, presents a danger to the families and workers of the agrarian world. You do not have the moral or technical legitimacy to present a proposal like the one we are discussing today. They don't cheat on anyone. Don't be hypocrites. While the Catalan and Spanish countryside is bled to death by the futility and neglect of its rulers, they continue to be caught up in their salon discussions on the 2030 agenda: climate hysterias, feminisms and other ideological delusions. VOX's position on this issue is that a motion of these characteristics should be focused on four pillars: prevention of damage caused by wild fauna to farmers and livestock farmers, sufficient compensation to farmers and farmers for losses caused by wild fauna, negotiation and dialogue with all actors involved in the problem, knowledge and dissemination of the kinegetic sector, and their economic, social, cultural and environmental importance. Since VOX we have shown on numerous occasions that ours is not sectarianism, but to solve the real problems of the people. Therefore, several of the proposals put forward seem reasonable to us and we believe that they can be positive for our field. Others seem to us insufficient, and others simply wrong. We support the revision of the compensation system, but we find it insufficient. We must bet on an economic increase in compensation and a real acceleration of bureaucratic and administrative procedures. We believe that it is necessary to draw up a kinegetic law that adapts to the social, economic, cultural and environmental conditions of the twenty-first century, but we understand that, in order for this legislation to be truly efficient, it must be at the national level and not only at the regional level. We also believe that the commercial potential of the kinegetic sector must be promoted. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, put your boots on, protect those who feed us, and put your heels and moccasins aside. In short, work for the men and women of the countryside. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.132.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.133.0	Thank you, President. Well, Congresswoman Ibarra, we will vote in favour of your motion. Sounds perfect to us. We share, as has already been expressed here by the different groups, the concerns that there are with regard to the issues raised by them. Just make four mentions. In point 2, therefore, Pages Union has long called for the deployment of this Special Group of Cinematic Management and Animal Capture. It's a demand for your own page. That the government pointed itself at him, beyond this young man. It's a long-term problem, and it's been a long time since the different sectors involved in the land asked for it. And, on the other hand, referring to the hunting law, what we're worried about is that we're flushing it, right? So, if we're looking at the newsroom, then we'll find that 2017 was the time for Serret's advisor to present a preliminary memoir on the new hunting law. 2018 already Councilwoman Jordan said that it was a government priority and that it would make this law. And this is 2022, isn't it? Yes, I see that there has been unanimity in all the games that this new law requires, but, well, years have passed and, as with other laws... or the deployment of laws always remains pending and we do not move forward. Also say that this strategic rock board that was presented a few days ago..., that, well, we give it the welcome, but it also seems to us that it is a reinterpretation or, at last, a copy with few changes of the rock board that was presented in 2017– or, if not, that's what the sector values – and repeats..., some of the objectives that already marked 2017 repeats to them in 2022. That's good, isn't it? But, of course, the point is that in these years some of these objectives should no longer be repeated because they should have been fixed or, if not, resolved. And, obviously, so the assumption that we are talking about this 2022 platoon..., we are talking about 10,7_million euros, 3,7 in the assumption of this year – totally insufficient. I mean, it won't help to solve all the problems that come up here and that this kind of mess plan wants to solve. What's missing is obviously more inversion and getting us to work together with the sector, because the sector is already indignant, because it has years of patenting the consequences of non-action or lack of action, right? And meanwhile, we see how the populations of these animals continue to grow exponentially, don't we? To the land, for example, if we win, to the Empordà, to the Garrotxa, also to the Gavarres, so, we see how, year after year, the population increased, and with this increase the damage to the little agriculture that is already left to the territory, which has gone far, and, more than to go far, constantly suffer these attacks. And also the hundred, obviously, of accidents that this causes and, obviously, of very many people, with whom you have previously said, that, obviously, I can give them all the support, in France and to very many people that, well, consequently, no? , from these troubles..., so things happen. And what's more, beyond this young man, who totally agrees, we don't let this be a new toast to the sun, which we approve with a very clear majority – because this will happen, it has already become clear – and that three years or four from now we say: "Ostres, so this 2017 is already said, 2018, and until 2022 a young man with a very clear majority of parliament was approved. And we'll be back here without a law of our own hunting, which, as has been said, is based on one of the 1970s, which has little to do with the current reality neither for time nor for the country where we live. Therefore, we shall vote in favour. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.134.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.135.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, with this reason the PSC puts on the table a problem that we all think is a real problem, that is obvious and that, therefore, it is necessary to talk about, that is the overpopulation of the senglar, an overpopulation originated by an imbalance in an ecological system, by the lack of predators, but that, moreover, it is an overpopulation that also generates dysfunctions in the conjunction of the ecological system, because it obviously exceeds the capacity to carry out this system, but that, moreover, has some consequences, that are evident in the object of this young man, on a very concrete activity, that is agricultural activity, with the effects and damage that is already occurring here. Therefore, before a problem that is real, we believe that we need to seek, seek solutions. And it's a problem you have to see, among other things, with compatibility, isn't it? , as compatible with the different uses of the natural environment, the uses of the natural space with the agricultural uses and branches. And, to make compatible the different uses of space, and in this case of natural spaces, non-urbanized spaces, which we understand to be ordering measures and also management measures. We believe that in this young man there is a great deal of emphasis on a single type of measurement, which is kinegetic measurements. And we understand that we can not only deal with this problem from strictly kinegetic measures, but also with comprehensive measures; complementary measures that I have to see, for example, with the preservation of agroforestry mosaics; measures that I have to see with the ecology of the landscape or with the management of ecological systems. And it's true, isn't it? , that one of these measures is what you have to see with the kinetic activity. And, in this sense, we believe that we need to take a step forward; that, obviously, the law of the 70th is a clearly outdated law and that we need a new law of hunting in Catalonia, and that we need to stop seeing hunting as a sport and oci activity and to hear it – its possibilities – as a logical..., logically, therefore, of contributing of ecological value or of economic value and, therefore, with a natural, with a logical, much different to what we are accustomed to. Therefore, in this sense, we need to rethink, we need a new law and we need to equip ourselves with new tools in these instruments. I mean, I used to say that, too, didn't I? , is to say, that the measurements cannot be exclusively kinegetic, in the same way that I believe that we cannot conceptualize certain species for their kinegetic value. And here, in the interventions that preceded me and in the same young man, he tends to speak before, in this case, of a species such as the common pig as a kinegetic species. Mirin, I would say that the signlar is not defined by its natural kinegetic, but that it defines its natural environment, surely, the signlar can be defined, therefore, to be a mammal, to be an ungulate. Therefore, the definition of species in eco-systems is not the use we can draw from social systems in this case. That said, another element that we want to put on the table, and that concerns us, and that has also been said here, and that we understand that the young lady also stands in store, is all that you have to see with security and with the different social uses of natural space, because hunting, obviously, cannot be a use excluded from the natural environment. And here we have a security problem that is obvious and that, unfortunately, therefore, has also posed itself as manifesto. And we greet the family of Francesc too. But it's not the only case of the only incident that has ever been related to the kinetic activity, the damage, even the dead, isn't it? To other people. Therefore, we have a problem: that it cannot be that, when we go out to make social use of the natural space – it is because we ride a bicycle, it is because we go to walk – we are at risk, we are in danger or we are doing so because we can be injured by another activity. Therefore, here we must put order, and we understand that we must act in this sense. I'm done. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the majority of points of this motion, because, as I say, it is a hunting law, it is necessary to deploy the Special Group for the Management of Agricultural Agents, it is necessary to regulate the activity in the matter of..., with the logic of security. But we also understand, therefore, that this young man is missing, there is a lack of pedagogy, there is a need to incorporate all sensitivities. It is a young man who, in different points, refers to the need to agree with the Council of Hunting, with the collection of the Society of Hunters, etc., but who forgets many voices, oblivious to the animalist view, oblivious to the ecological view, oblivious to the environmentalist view. And that will do, therefore, that in a few points of this young man we will abstain, because we understand that we need to incorporate all the visions at the time of rethinking the new model and the new look at the kinetic activity in Catalonia in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.136.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.137.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... this motion that presents us to debate and vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress is accurate, is in line with a proven reality and is timely. It is not the first time that we speak in this Parliament of the need to control certain species saved for its negative impact on the conreus and even for the risks that its overpopulation represents for the salvation of people, other species saved and also, to say the least, for the safety of users of certain communication routes, of wagons, in which access, the presence of certain species makes it an important circular hazard at certain times. Our parliamentary group, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has also brought this question to the parliamentary debate. Often, we have found ourselves coming to a consensus on the diagnosis and, most importantly, on the measures that can be applied to prolong the current situation of overpopulation of certain species. But we also found that the measures that may or may not apply or only partially apply, with which the present problem has not been solved, which has already occurred chronically. I say again: this young man is necessary, responds to a real and established situation and is timely. I also hope, therefore, that this young man finally counted on the majority support in this chamber. Cal, as the honourable Member asks, a plan to prevent the risks and damage of wildlife saves Catalonia that incorporates diagnosis, temporary actions and the resources needed to bring them to an end for the control of kinegetic species. This new plan and, above all, it can be implemented and executed according to the diagnosis, because it has already been seen to have a plan, even though it can be quite good on the paper – we know, the paper endures everything – it is not enough nor is it a guarantee of success for what it does to control the overpopulation of saving fauna. We also agree with the actual deployment of the Special Group on Cinematic Management and Animal Capture of the Rural Agents Cos. Also agreed that the Generalitat develops its hunting skills, and that it does so by developing a new hunting law project. The Generalitat has its powers since 1980, and has already announced more than once a draft hunting law. Therefore, it is already time to update the hunting law of 1970, a law of more than fifty years of force, which regulates the kinetic activity in Catalonia for the lack of a law of its own, for which the Generality has had a long time of competition. As can be deduced from my intervention so far, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we will support this young man in all his quarters. But we do not want to go over points about a question that, in our opinion, must be very present: to ensure the safety of all people who can see'safe for the kinetic activity, follow directly or indirectly. This question is a retreat to the young man in his quarters 3 and 4. On the one hand, at point 3, the motion asks that the new hunting law "introduce mechanisms to secure the use of the natural environment for those people who practice the kinegetic activity and those who practice other activities. On the other hand, in point 4, the motion intended to draw up and approve binding security protocols, agreed with the affected sectors, for the hunting battles that are due to take place for such a purpose as to ensure the security of activities that are carried out simultaneously in natural space. This question, sense of doubt, will be one of the main ones to be present in the debate of the future hunting law. Unfortunately, with this debate, it will not arrive in time to avoid the very heavy accidents that have already occurred, as happened in Francesc Jiménez at the end of the month of generation. But it takes first, very first, with people's security, whether or not it intervenes in kinegetic activities. I repeat, in Catalonia, even though we have the hunting skills of more than forty years old, we have not yet done what it takes: a new law that comes first and that is also very careful with the safety of people, whether or not they are hunters. It's up to you to do it; therefore, do it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.138.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.139.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'll do it from the escó because I'll be too short. We find that this young man is on the rise; that, moreover, he speaks of a problem that we are grieving, but that in the later times, therefore, he has still sharpened. And, in fact, we agree with this diagnosis made by Congresswoman Ibarra. And it looks like we're not the only ones, because there's also been this plan of action that the government has put forward to try to deal with the damage and the risks that we're seeing with this overcrowded slang pig. And, therefore, we will give support to the whole movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.140.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra has the word to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.141.0	Thank you, President. To thank them all and all the interventions. We are very pleased to see that we have achieved this great consensus on this subject at a very opportune time, and not for ourselves, not for ourselves as the Socialist Group and Unites for Progress, but, above all, for the rural world, for the agricultural world and, ultimately, for all this rural area that needs action, right? Also thank the Republican and Juntes group for presenting the papers and the willingness to trade them. As always, it's been very easy with you. And tell him, then, to Congressman Parés that I'm sure we could have made a more plural document, that I'm sure if we had submitted papers in this sense we could have collected more sensitivities, right? In any case, we do not only plant kinegetic actions; we also plant what is done with this strategic plan, which is a strategic plan that needs to develop other actions, not just kinegetics or hunting. Only two points respect the exams. The first, at the point where we set up a strategic plan for all kinegetic species. The plan at the end will only be of the single, which will be put into operation in the own three_months, but we have managed that the Government, through the groups that give it recollection, is committed to that, with the other species, the plans apply in the own six_months. And if they apply and they do, it will already be a success. And the second, the Special Cinegetic Management Group. We have not been able to accept the message that it has been unfolded, to "continue unfolding, because it has not really started or unfolded, has it not? In any case, we hope that this year 2022 will follow the year in which it is actually carried out in a way that respects wildlife; that, in the band of approving the plans, these are carried out, and that it is legal, the regulations are adopted, both the hunting law – a law that seems that we all agree that it is to be renewed – with those binding protocols in the baptisms so as to make them safer, right? Therefore, for all that is useful for the agricultural sector of our country, so they will find us there and we will seek the consent of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.142.0	Thank you very much. Let's finish the debate, then. And also the reminder that this young man's vote is going to be this late, once we substantiated the last of the points of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of housing alternatives for runaway families]] [[302-0007/13]] We pass the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the Movement following the inquiry to the Government about the management of housing alternatives for the families denouncing. It was presented by the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, and has the word to expose it by Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.143.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, let's talk again today about the problem so big that we have in this country with the issue of housing. This time, as we have already advanced since our inquiry to the Social Rights Council, about the management of social workers and social services of housing alternatives and resources that do not have these workers to care and care for and accompany the affected population. We have presented a very brief motion, with six very concrete points, which have few presuppositional implications, because, as we said at the inquiry, not all responses and solutions require an economic reversal, but there are wills that can manifest themselves in a very quick and effective way without the need to allocate economic resources to them. The first of these is the repeal and the new creation on the directive regulating the attendance of social workers at the judicial committee. Currently, we have a guideline, signed in 2013, to which are attached many joints, among them the Barcelona one – which, as we have already explained, is one of the cities mainly affected – that forces social workers to attend the judicial committee and not the families that have been accompanying throughout the process. Therefore, the first proposal is to repeal the current directive and work on a new one that ensures that social workers, according to their criteria, accompany families at all times. We believe that it is contradictory to put the welfare of families in the centre and to have a protocol that is old because these charges can be executed. We're also talking about reformulating access requirements at the Emergence Table. We need a number of requests to ensure that there is access to all the Catalan people who are at risk of habitat loss, without discrimination of any kind, as we indicate – no administrative situation, no type of residence of the immovable, the level of purchase, etc. –, in accordance with Law 19/2020 and with the recently touched by the Constitutional Court, Law 1/2022, in order to face the emergence in the field of housing. It is necessary to unify the protocol for the management of housing alternatives. It cannot be that the resources available to families are different depending on where they live. Therefore, we propose that the resource portfolio be accessible and shared throughout the system, allowing social workers, who know the concrete case, to manage the most appropriate mode. We also spoke to our young lady about the childhood protocol affected by the denunciation in accordance with the reports of the social services, also according to the reports of foundations of experts in the care of the child, which indicated that the childhood that is reallocated in pensions is more at risk of school failure, worse feeding, and what we consider to be more difficult, that it is the risk of sexual abuse by strangers, to be reallocated in pensions. Therefore, one of the proposals we are presenting is that, for families with children, the only housing alternative follows the emergency or touristic floors, according to availability. We are also talking about unifying the directive on the vulnerability report, because even now social workers are finding that there has not been a single criterion with which they are clear and have no doubt that the vulnerability report can be issued at any time. And this is a substantial difference at the time of accompanying a court release and a family at risk of loss from the house. We are also talking about unifying a directive to allow the space of dialog with social movements, because, as we said, we need to legitimize as the interlocutor to whom he works every day to guarantee and defend a basic right such as housing. In short, families need the best possible attention, and that is why social service workers have clear and sufficient resources and that the dialogue with housing unions remains fluid. The imperative need before the constant interferences of a repressive state that does not interest it in the absolute welfare of our lives, as we are seeing live today, makes it imperative that we all have very clear and make a common front, as is essential, to guarantee the rights of habitation and of life worthy of all the Catalan people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.144.0	Then, to defend the proposed statements, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.145.0	Thank you, President. We wanted to begin by communicating our vote in favour of the whole House. Suppose it's not a surprise for most groups. And, in fact, we also want to thank the CUP Group - A New Cycle to Win that has presented it, that has dealt with the issue both in the inquiry as today, because we think it puts the focus on a daily and difficult problem that social workers in Catalonia suffer. We've been talking about the emergence of denominations for a long time; about all the denominations there is and all that could be there. Even more so because we know that the moratoriums that exist at the state level and other measures that have been applied do not manage to put up with them all for various reasons. We know the situations of drama, tension and pressure that affect families from knowing that they will be denuded until the moment of the denudation comes up. Even more so when the charges are open, because we get into the heads of people who have to go to sleep every day, they don't know when they can leave the house, because at any time they can find a judicial committee at the door trying to call them. We also know that most of the noises that can be stopped are thanks to the pressure and mobilization of social organisations, housing unions and other organisations such as the Mortgage Affected Platform. We also know that they play a phone book, for example, in the case of Barcelona, the mediation teams, the Anti-Denunciation Unit, which it does is to accompany families – very important – from long before the denunciation, because it is not only necessary to act at the time of the denunciation. This follow-up to families..., because families know who are the means, who are the resources, to ensure that they have the vulnerability report they need, to ensure that they apply the laws that we approved fifteen days ago in this Parliament, the law of urgent measures for housing, the so-called "anti-denomination law, which is what it is to force the great affections to offer a social logue. This is a law that families need to know, they need to have the tools to demand it. And that many families who are in a situation of vulnerability, living in a situation of occupation or who have finished the contract of logging or who have not been able to pay a few months and that is enough reason to expel them from their home, many times do not have the tools in the abaster. That's why it's important – and this Parliament has voted for it many times – the need to create a mediation team that, from the Catalan Habitat Agency, accompanies these families, not from the Squadron Mosses, because often the answer that is given by the government is that there is already a mediation unit of the Squadron Mosses that intervenes. We insist that when he intervenes at the time of the denunciation, or so, when we already have the situation of drama and vital emergence for many people at his door. Therefore, this follow-up must be earlier. But what we can't do is get this support back to social workers, who don't have the resources they need to do it, and who, moreover, by virtue of this protocol, when the time of denunciation comes up, when families have surely been accompanying and trying to find an alternative to the Emergence Housing Table – that they don't find, because there are lists of waiting, sometimes, for two years – when they have done all this process and, finally, above the denunciation, what they have to do is stand at the side of the judicial committee to accompany the judicial committee in the denunciation. This causes a very strong strain on social workers. They have made cards, they have made vague, they have complained about the tension and the pressure that it supposes for them. But it is that, moreover, the trust of the families in the public administration is broken, because those people who have been accompanying them in turn are found on the side of who makes them out of their home. Therefore, we believe that it is fundamental that this point 1 of repealing this protocol; this protocol that has done is to put the Administration, as you say, at the service of justice at the time of denunciation, and to strengthen the mechanism so that there is real communication and coordination between the judicial system and social workers. But what do you mean? In the sense that many times it is not possible to intervene from social workers because not above the notification of denunciation. It is necessary for administrations to know when there are charges and when they are vulnerable families in order to be able to activate resources precisely in time and avoid the maximum vulnerability of a charge. This communication must be fluid, it must be agile, the judicial system must be placed on the part of vulnerable families. With the law we've approved, they have to apply it. Before applying..., a judge must know if there is a vulnerable family there, and the best way to know it is by contacting social workers because they say: "So yes, it is a vulnerable family. Apply the law that obliges the great tenors to offer a social logger. Other issues of the young man's mind are phonetic. The theme of the months of emergence is still a scandal. We have come back to propose a plan of work that we have already proposed, I don't know how many times; in fact, it also formed part of the agreement of presuppositions of the previous legislature. There is no problem, we still have some lists of hope that are not done, and there are many measures to increase these months of emergence and to approve and regularize that no families with children receive pensions. This requires that there be, effectively, much more available habitat to give it an answer in those cases where, we insist, priority has not been achieved, which is to avoid denunciation. Because the priority has to be whenever families can stay at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.146.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.147.0	Well, let's talk about housing again, this time from the social perspective. We have said this and we will always say that housing, for Republicans and Republicans, is a matter of rights and is a subject right that we need to be able to guarantee. At the same time, it is a struggle, that of the right to housing, which should be simpler than it seems, because we have the full skills, but, unfortunately, the autonomous reality in which we are still much more limiting. That's why we can't do what we want today, which is to come and quietly approve of this reason that we share many ideological aspects, because, unfortunately, it's not what we're still on condition that we can guarantee our citizenship today. And we work every day to guarantee this right to housing, from this Parliament, with courageous laws, with which we approved fifteen days ago, and which we must now manage to deploy; from every municipality and barrier, go to the joints or a few blocks, at the expense of families and professionals working to protect the citizenry. But it cannot be seen that there are many who work in the opposite direction, from courts that self-erect themselves as legislators and refuse to apply portions of laws that we approve here until the Constitutional Court, which seems to have subscribed to being a legislator denied Catalan laws for the right to housing. Two weeks ago it was with Decree 37/2020, and today it is with the filtering of an imminent judgment against the law regulating the price of the loguer, 11/2020, a pioneer law that has worked and given clear fruits, reducing the price of loguer without reducing the offer. That's also why you have such powerful enemies. Let us not forget that it was not only the People's Party, it was also the Spanish Government that challenged this law, and the Republican Left – take note, ladies and gentlemen – did not forget. Today more than ever we reaffirm ourselves. Regular call, because it's necessary for the citizenry, and we have the right, exclusive competence and historical precedents. More than ever, we will never return, because we have the right and we have the right to the need of our citizenship, because what I am sure does not include the Constitution, as the Councillor Capella always said, is the right to speculate. And, of course, we also have to address the Spanish government, which we just demand that they let us do what they don't do, that they legislate for the benefit of the right to housing, yes, but in those aspects where they have competence, which is the process, which is the mortgage and which is the prosecutor, with a very clear example: the open dates given by the company a while ago in the gallery. This is the competence of the Spanish government, and this is what should be focused on legislating on this housing law. That is why we believe that the generosity and effort of all those who understand when it comes to defending Catalan sovereignty, to agree that, above all, we are able to sustain in time, and to point out those laws that today's impractical fans, such as the foreign law, which we agree to repeal, that today we want to re-claim that it is repealed, but that it is obvious that it is now in force and that it limits some of our fundamental rights for the part of the population that it is also fully Catalan. Because everyone who lives in the Catalan countries has to have the right to housing, and we have to have the ability to guarantee it, whatever their administrative situation is. Today we will not be able to approve some of the points of this motion, because we cannot take on the terms proposed or the resources requested because of the limitations we have as the administration. At the same time, however, we are convinced and conjured in a government action that we believe will continue to give its fruits, because we share the analysis and concern about the situation of children in a situation of residential exclusion. That's why, we're going to approve the point, and we're going to replenish that we've proposed to strengthen the psychosocial care service, because a lot of times we don't sort between thought and habitat, we sort between thought and street, and that's what we want to emphasize. We hope that we will soon have, in effect, a new protocol granted between the shares that I left behind in 2013, but we cannot afford to stay without this instrument until we have a new and better one. We also hope that the new law will contribute decisively to the months of emergence and that its deployment will also involve clear indications to the workers of the social services. And, obviously, always where we agree, with all the entities and all the parts on the dial. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.148.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialists Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.149.0	Anava Junts. Anava Junts, right? [[Pause.]] President, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's shared, hi, the...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.150.0	All right, that's how I like it. Before moving on to the position fixation, it is necessary to defend..., for the papers presented, the deputy Gloria Freixa, on behalf of the Group of Joints for Catalonia. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.151.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank you to the Socialist Party. [[Rialles.]] Friends, that's why the wedding is you, huh? Not us. But, well, let's go, let's go. [[Some applause.]] Let's see. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, you'll leave me out of time. Let's see. Well, we don't doubt the good will of the CUP with this young man, but it is true that we have understood it better when you went out to defend it at the Faristol or when we were lucky enough to talk to Basha Change, the CUP deputy, who always shows her predisposition. It's where we've been better off than it is with this young man, and actually in the reading and in the finality as it was written, so it cost us a little more to find what the goal was. Still, I think the object is shared, but sometimes we get different positions in the way we get there, right? I'll just mention some of the points that the young man's dealing with, like... one of these is to repeal a protocol of actions for what he does to the launch lines, okay? But what about this point? That, of course, the word "repealing" – we talked to the honourable Member yesterday – left us without a protocol in a particularly sensitive situation, such as denunciations. And, therefore, we believe that this should have been different. And, all the way through, these protocols – we've already announced them, and I think it's well-known – are working, and they're working with a wide margin of detail. And now, for example, what the work plan is already finished, and there would be only those impressions about this one of the High Court of Justice, the Barcelona Assembly and the locals. Therefore, this would be practically read out. For what he also does on the assumption that he is also talking about non-discrimination at the time of reducing these months of emergence, as we let him know, the assumption that we were being asked to join..., one of them is already contemplated, and we also got the link where there is this regulation of this regulation and, therefore, that we would already have it. And, well, in the rest of the points there is a theme above all terms, but I would also like to specify, in the matter of childhood, this protocol that you manifested to avoid that, when there is a denunciation, these families settle in pensions, which would be the last place we should go. But here it is that, according to the deputy of the Republican Left, we are sometimes talking about avoiding the street. And it's obviously not the measure that's priority, and we wouldn't even have to allow this to widen, but it takes that out of the equation, when sometimes there's no more solution, it also seemed like it was giving some other way to work on it. Finally, they were also talking about unifying all that is the protocol of instructions to make these reports of vulnerability. And, as we've already commented, they're giving us a one-month margin. And these protocols include many laws that need to be amended to end up changing this protocol. And, of course, one_me, so it seems to us that it's very little margin. So, well, we think we should go back to the point that you want with this motion, that it is to deal in a comprehensive and urgent way with the support of vulnerable families that are in a situation of imminent habitat loss, that is, that I believe that here we do agree. And I'd really like to reinforce a little bit of the paper that the council has had. I know we're a long way from this ideal world that I think we all pretend to be, but I would like to say that this past year we've given more help than ever in this matter; EUR 125_million in 66,000 grants have allowed us to reduce the family effort to house forty-six and a half percent of the income to thirty_per_cent, and that's in case we avoid the risk of denunciation. They have also avoided more denunciations than ever this 2021. It has been allocated EUR 14_million, which has meant more than 5,200 urgent services, that if the agreements concluded with Ofideute and the cases managed for the Reallotgem programme are added, therefore, 2021 will avoid 6,478 denominations. We would also like to point out, as the third element of action, that more housing has been made for cases of emergence. It has been used, as we have said other times in this faristol, both the right of aunty and retraction, which has assumed more than 3,500" lives destined for these uses; the habitats given for financial entities, which have also assumed 3,820 already given, of the 4,030 compromises – therefore, we go well with the numbers that had been assigned –; the Next Generation funds, which are 160_million euros to help promote the housing of social loguer from 2022 to 2023, and the Reallotgem programme, which the data in us prove to be all a success. In total, more than 237,000 people benefited from measures to prevent and prevent misdemeanours among ordinary aid, urgent benefits, Ofideute agreements and Reallotgem solutions. Therefore, we need to talk to improve all the measures we need to avoid these situations, but, if it can be, it is reasonable and also viable. Thank you very much; thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.152.0	Thank you very much. And now, Mr Rubén..., Raúl Moreno, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.153.0	Thank you, President. Well, our defense or argument of this young man is a different kind of hair from the ones we've been listening to. Look, it's full of good intentions. Probably, with the general objective we all agree. I believe that there are a vast majority of Members and Members of Parliament, of parliamentary groups, who are going to try, as far as possible, to guarantee the right to housing, to reduce denomiments. But we have the feeling that some of the proposals extend from concrete to acting before cases of denunciation. Mirin, fly over or pose on the frontispiece, let's say, of this motion the word protocol. Darreramently we've gotten used to a protocol, escort'm, making a protocol to solve the problem, huh? All clear. Step..., make a quick list. Here it is demanded that the performance protocol of the launch procedures be repealed. At the same time it is demanded that a new protocol be made for the execution of the launch claims. We also need to make a new protocol for alternative housing management – this one needs to be unified – but we are asking for another protocol for childhood affected by denunations – this one is new. Maybe it's not the way. If you talk to social workers, they will say: "No more protocols. Maybe one that'll put it all back on me. And as long as childhood is important in denunciation situations, as is disabled people who are denunciated or large people who are denunciated. All with different problems. And it's clear that whenever there's a chance that you can rent them, it'll be a lot better than going to a pension. But here we have a basic problem; there is no habitat – there is no habitat. I would already like me, when I had been a registrar, or many of you, who are registrars and registrars and who stand up to the misdemeanours, who may have sorted..., sort out between fifteen rooms... "Where do we put them? – So look, this one doesn't. So this one does. That's what you're also proposing that you get to make a social worker: sort out the health and health of the habitation. We're not here. It's that you've got a family in front of the door that's to go through the night in a driveway, somewhere; they can't go through the street. And, therefore – said Mr. Morales –, only the option of the pension remains. Protocol yes or protocol no. It's that we're in these situations. I, for that matter, do you live? So much! Guaranteed whenever possible, but here, more than just making protocols, what is meant to guarantee a public housing park of social lloger. And in this the assemblies are making an effort, and we must say that we do not see that effort on the part of the Government of Catalonia. So, beyond protocols and other good intentions I don't deny, I think we have a little bit of a lack of achievement left or extended. Talk about access to the months of emergency. The waiting lists of the Emergencies, the months of Emergencies are huge, and now you are proposing to us: "No, and now without any type of conditioning. So, let's make the waiting list even longer. They say: "No, no, this young man does not have any type of economic connotation, but we ask to set aside in three_months an urgent shoal to end the waiting lists. Free? Is that what we do without money? It's not possible. It's just that we can't find any solutions, that way. The theme of childhood. And as long as the child has to be protected, but we don't have a chance to sort them out if we put them in a habitation or we put them in a pension. We have to put them somewhere. And we have to go with them. And we must go with a certain cure, under our point of view, to carry under the scales or on the scales of social workers decisions that are not their own or decisions in which they have little room for manoeuvre. A social worker can do her job whenever she has the resources to offer. I really don't recommend you being a worker or social worker without a portfolio of resources to offer. And that's the problem we have at these times. Therefore, beyond the protocols and the papers – which are very good for us to go to sleep in peace, but after sometimes they do not apply and many times they do not know – it would be useful to have the priority of generating habitat and possibly one, two clear protocols of action – where we should go. We can't come up with a young man and set up four protocols for us, because this one, in the end – I insist, huh? –, good will, the one you want, but it goes far enough from the reality that governors and governors find the different cities and peoples before a problem that is very complex – very complex – and that, under our point of view, requires a much deeper reflection than they present us in this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.154.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs María Elisa García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.155.0	Thank you, Madam President. Today the CUP presents a motion of housing in the purest communist style, that is, wet paper; populist, without rigor, without execution capacity and without valuation of the scenario. The conclusion after reading the motion, more like an octavilla of the League of Righteous, by Karl Schapper, than a proposal by an autonomous parliament, is that they have not yet taken the trouble to look around and observe what is happening in Catalonia. While you present your particular game of houses, outside these walls there are 90,664 Catalans waiting for social housing; more than ninety_ thousand people. Unfortunately, we also top the number of evictions for rent unpaid: 65.5 evictions per 100_ thousand inhabitants, while the Spanish average is 46.9. And it is that Catalonia is in line in the number of social housing: 0.2_per_100 inhabitants, while the Spanish average is 0.5. The Generalitat is exclusively focused on advancing its ideological rupturist agenda and eludes the responsibility to meet the social needs of the most vulnerable. Its governing partners have the duty and the obligation to invest the resources – which there are – in social housing and to materialize at once that slogan that they repeat without internalizing and without having the slightest intention to carry out, which is ‘not leaving anyone behind. And they don't see or care what's happening in Catalonia. For starters, only from January to November 2021 you and your governing partners left 11,715 Catalans behind, 11,715 people who were on the waiting list of dependency and died waiting for help. They have also left behind more than 462,000 Catalan children and adolescents, who, according to the Idescat's living conditions survey, are at risk of extreme poverty. Nor has his pulse trembled to leave behind 17,500 older people expecting geriatric residence in 2021. And it is that, despite its games of trilers counting all the squares that unfortunately left empty the covid in its passage, today at least 9,045 places for the elderly are missing, according to the annual report of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. According to the Arope report, by July 2021 the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion had increased 2.7 points and stood at 26.3_percent of the population. You've left 26,3_per_cent of Catalans behind. Look, to remedy this situation, it's not enough to present an ideological pamphlet like this. Capital investment is imperative. And it is that Catalonia is the second autonomous community that least invests in social rights, a 17_per_cent less than the Spanish average. It is obligatory for the Generalitat to guarantee every Catalan a roof, a plate of food and a job. In order to do so, the Government would have to refrain from financing separatist chiringuites or would have to eliminate the Catalan embassies or not increase them at least. Or not to use public money to back up the high office of the process. Even you, gentlemen of the UPC and their related groups like Arran, could stop destroying urban furniture every time you go out on the street, whose replacement is also in charge of the public arks and which could also be used to cover much of the shortcomings that we are suffering from. And you will see, in their separatist cove of October 2019 they calculated wreckage worth 2_million_of_euros of public furniture only in Barcelona: 300,000 in burnt cars, 1,740,000_euros in cancelled flights and a drop of thirty_per_cent in hotel reservations, with a loss in tourism of 100_million_of_euros. That episode of urban terrorism, gentlemen of the CUP, Esquerra Republicana, Junts and related groups, cost ninety_twelve social housing that could have been built with the money you threw away. Our summary – and I conclude, Madam President –: Carthago delenda est, which is what should be done with all the management of the Government and its partners, who, on the one hand, come to make hypocritical proposals like this and, on the other, bring to ruin Catalonia by obviating vulnerable Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.156.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.157.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... whenever we start talking about housing, we get into a speech a lot of times I think I'm a little practical and obviously ideological, when I don't think I should be. Or at least from our visit, which obviously also has an ideological bias, so, in this case, or at least in this case so concrete, it should be or implement feasible and reasonable solutions. And, in fact, this young man talks about the management of housing alternatives to those families who are or who are denuded. The reality is what it is. Catalonia has been or is a leader in denunciations and also a leader in waiting lists for access to housing. And that's what we need to think about, because many times we bring to this early Parliament that I don't think they're helping us and that we should think like we should think if all we've legislated over the last few years is enough and where is the real problem of access to this very important resource, and that we defend both the State and the Constitution, such as access to housing. I think we've been wrong, and we have to say it. I don't think there's been any fetal policies for the last two years. Let's go on without housing policies at the present time. What's happening... and Mr. Morales said it, but it's true. Yes, it was mentioned that there was a law regulating the logger or the price of the logger and that now the Constitutional, therefore, has fallen. But we brought it to the Board of Guarantees, and they already told us it was bad luck; it was bad luck, that law. So if we do a few initials and we do them badly and we do them precisely to use them as weapons against the repressive State and we don't think about the people who have to access, who, as has been said here too, are waiting to access – the problem or its problem – to a habitation urgently, because they have been denuded, so I think we are wrong. And he will spend another time with the law that we approved a few weeks ago, which here they didn't even let us carry the request for advice to the Board of State Guarantees, because they already imagined what would happen, surely. There you go. We don't want to know, we don't want to listen, we don't want to look at it, we don't want to know that we're wrong about housing policy. We're wrong, and I think that's obvious. That's the reality. And then there's a young man, obviously. Comment, and I'll go point to point. We, the first of the points presented in this motion, therefore, do not think it necessary to change the execution protocol, do not believe it. Especially if there's no obvious alternative, which I don't think there is. There is no proposal before repealing a protocol. Mr. Moreno here spoke of the protocols and, in fact, made a defense... the best defense the government has made of Mr. Moreno defending the policies or, at least, the lack of effectiveness of this young man. I think it may not be effective, it's not exhaustive, but we..., even if we vote against and vote against the second point, because obviously it takes all the requests to access this "living room, including the requirements of the purchase level, is a bogery that you don't feel. But we do believe that we have to stop because these protocols are being made or unified, that they are bringing all the resources that we ask for or that those people who need it to emerge to the territory on an equal footing. And also, obviously, we think that there's a shoal to go against these waiting lists. I know it can't be done. I know we certainly can't implement it, but it's the same; from the opposition we have to stop because that's what we can do. We shall vote in favour of this. We will also vote in favour of drawing up a protocol; it will certainly not serve a great deal, but we must, as a minimum, say it and put it on the march, a protocol to fight precisely against the effects that a denunciation has on childhood. I think this is obvious, and I think this is no longer about ideological sectarianism, but I think it's evidence, so we can't ignore it. On the rest of the points, we, above all at the last point, do not see or believe that it is necessary to legitimize this supposed relationship with some entities, that they are disarrangedly politicized and that in the end, the only thing they do is represent some ideological interests, but that they are not for us..., or do not have an adequate and correct democratic endorsement. Therefore, be practical. We will vote on what we consider to be within the common sense, but again, the policy of housing, the policy of access to housing does not exist in Catalonia. It doesn't exist, it's not happening and the only one we're seeing during this year of Parliament is that it didn't want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.158.0	Finally, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.159.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'll be brief too. I think everyone in the chamber knows that we do not share the housing model that the CUP advocates, but I would like to make an explanation of vote so that no one will be surprised when they see the panel. Because it is true that we are going to vote in favour of several of the points in this motion, namely the 3, 3a, 4 and 5, because they seem reasonable to us, because they seem to us to be aimed at protecting the most vulnerable, because we also agree to unify the protocols, to give women social workers more freedom in choosing the best way or the most appropriate to the situation. And, therefore, these are points that seem reasonable to us, we have no inconvenience in recognizing it. And, therefore, we will give support because it seems to us that they are aimed at solving the crisis and housing emergency situation that we live in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.160.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.161.0	Thank you, President. Well, very briefly, because we only have two minutes. To thank the Member of Parliament Segovia so much the points such as the deal and the availability that we have had during the points, that we have understood as a point and better of the proposed text. Also to indicate, before the intervention of the deputy Moreno: these requests are precisely the requests of the social workers, both the collegiate and the syndicates, including those of Santa Coloma, that they should be lowered from the desk and speak with them so that they leave it very clear. [[Some applause.]] About the question of the terms. I mean, this March 8th of the CUP, we served the motto, "The way is together, isn't it? We must be brave and advance folds. In the things that we agree on, we have to move forward folds. But let's move on, this is the question of the terms. If you didn't agree with the terms, Republican Left and Together have proposed some other terms that are considered viable, and then we would have left so much of our story behind. Because before a repressive state that sends the police to pick up children and children from home as we see it, a repressive state that doesn't care the least about the dignity of our lives, a repressive state that systematically falls our sovereignty, especially the one that results in the defense of the fundamental rights such as that of housing..., as we see directly when today the Constitutional Court falls the law of regulation of loguers into seven articles, which is a tempt against thousands of families that are now unprotected. It is very criminal that, in the face of a crisis of high prices of essential sub-administrations and an unprecedented job insecurity, the State is curbing the regulation of loguers. This is an attack on our sobriety, and the Parliament must immediately push an own law of urban leases that goes beyond the current law of regulation of loggers, that is a radical change in housing policies and that sets itself for public housing and for an effective regulation of the price of the logger. If we're all so clear, let's do it and get out of the way. Good morning. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.162.0	After the debate, we will also vote on this motion for a substantive vote on the next item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government on the guarantee of the fundamental rights in mobilizations, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of the fundamental rights in mobilizations]] [[302-0010/13]] It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Lord Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.163.0	Thank you, President. We have presented a motion with a clear and open will, which is the defence of the fundamental rights, the defence of the fundamental rights of three spheres, which we wanted to place clearly, clearly, in the motion. For one thing, the first block of the motion is to add the majority of the parliament to ratify us in elements that may seem like a lot of Perogrullo, as I would say in the castle, but which are essential – which are essential. It is the compromise of this Parliament with the fundamental rights and with its defence – the compromise of this chamber –: the right of assembly, the right of demonstration, the right to freedom of expression and the right of information in the professional exercise. We've already spoken to the inquiry, and it's a key element. Ratify that the case law, which derives from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and other judicial bodies, makes it clear that the exercise of the rights of the parties to the proceedings cannot be regarded as criminal. But we're going further, because here's where the trap is. They cannot be considered criminal – criminal code – but they cannot be punished administratively in their exercise in a peaceful manner, which is the problem that we have had in the last years in the Spanish State, derived from the law bites, which are not considered criminal, but violates the rights from the administrative norm, from draconian sanctions. And this is the key element that we want to place. Another aspect that we think is important... and it's in the second block, is where we put the government. And we're basically putting the government on two fronts: to apply the legal changes explained by the honourable counselor in the inquiry and publicly explained – I think it's very clear. What do we do? To urge the Government to do so – to do so – and to do so because it has a legal basis – the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and of other bodies – has the sanctioning power, and what we want to add is the legitimacy of the sovereignty represented by Parliament. 'Cause it's good news, 'cause defending phone rights is good news, 'cause avoiding rapping them off the administrative street is good news. And it's good news, whether we like mobilizations or not. And that's why we're also clear, and when the government is asking for clarity, we're asking that it can't have arbitraried it, because it's a key element, because it's fundamental. And we all tend to defend the rights when they claim to be good for us, and when they ask for them, they don't like us. And when we talk about speech rights, we can't do that. And in this sense, we are clear and we urge the government to do so in this way and to add Parliament's sovereignty to these changes. There's a legal basis, there's sanctioning power, and we're calling it parliamentary legitimacy. I think that's what must be good news. And the last block comes into a clear need – in a clear need – because in the end everything we are talking about drink of the original sin. And it's a person who's not very religious, huh? But drink of the original sin, drink of a law, which is the law bite, which is the law of protection of citizen security, which violates these rights. And we also want to make it clear: that derogation, that a new regulation that I defend and that is protective of the fundamental rights. And they place some of the key aspects, generically, but they are very important. It is not possible to introduce racial profiling into security policies. They've been listening to me from this faristol: there's also ideology in security policies, and when the racial profile was incorporated, there was an ideology. And I think I use ideology to defend phonental rights, to eliminate racial profiling in security policies, to ensure the right to information... The law has been used to coerce photojournalists, and I think we need to be aware; let's avoid it. And what do we find? The need for derogation and the need for a much more guaranteed standard. And remember some aspects, because it is also important to remember. Council of Europe – a direct letter to the President of the Interior Committee of Congress, and to the President of Congress and the President of the Senate –, United Nations, everyone has denounced what the law means and asked for the necessary changes. We also remember them, because we think that it is necessary, especially at these times... to remember the legal bases surrounding the defense of the fundamental rights. This is the motion for a motion that we are carrying, and we expect it to have the maximum support of this chamber, because it will be good news, not for the chamber – that it is – but basically for the defense of the fundamental rights, we think what we think of the demonstration, the performance of who it is. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.164.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.165.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen of the deputies... We are facing a self-justification motion, a motion that the Government, in this case the Council of the Interior, the Department of the Interior of the Generalitat, presents itself by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, not because it is necessary for it to promote its government action, which obviously does not make much sense, but to justify its prevaricatory attitude in the application of the current democratic legislation. So this motion enters the usual scenario of cheating on the solitary by successive ex-governments of the Generalitat. This motion is a new attempt to paste the mantra chosen by Councilman Elena to label his political action at the head of the Department of Interior of the Generalitat. Councillor Elena – you, councillor – uses that round phrase that your department guarantees the rights and freedoms of all citizens of Catalonia, especially the most vulnerable, and with that, with the express quote of « the most vulnerable, it is worth everything. Trap the loner. And what do you want me to tell them? Don't hang up, don't hang up. I have told you and reiterated, Councillor, that the Executive Council of the Generalitat, that you yourself as an Interior Councillor, that no one in the Autonomous Government enjoys the prerogative of exercising any jurisdictional function. The Home Secretary, like the entire autonomous government, like any democratic government, lacks any jurisdictional function. On the contrary, in his governmental action, he is subject to judicial action by judges and courts. Thus, this repeated call for the interpretation of case law, regardless of its nature, has no place if it contradicts the loyal and effective application of existing legislation. Come on, trap the loner. Invocation of case law has a place in the jurisdictional sphere; it is the courts that interpret the laws and judgments of the courts themselves, not the Department of the Interior of the Generalitat. Neither the Home Secretary nor any of his Directorates-General has any authority in this regard. To invoke rhetorically that its role is to guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens, especially the most vulnerable, does not give it any capacity to interpret and reinterpret case law as appropriate. Nor does it allow it to object to the laws in force and to declare publicly, as it does, as it has done, that it does not intend to apply them in any way. Of course, the collection of "especially the most vulnerable to us, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group", seems to us to be a simple excuse for a bad payer. Because, if we analyze their political action, their action at the head of the Department of the Interior, we see that their maximum effort is to guarantee against wind and tide, even against the application of the existing legality, the democratic laws in force, the rights and freedoms of their protected and their correspondents, rights and freedoms that are always understood in a broad sense, even to the detriment of the rights and freedoms of others to whom all they have left is to pass through the hoop. We have tabled a specific amendment, not to dance the water and serve as an alibi in this self-justification motion, but as a test of cotton. We wanted to check the degree of cynicism of your motion by introducing an amendment to add to point 1; we wanted to add a paragraph to that first point of your motion with the following text: "Consequently, condemn the repeated attacks suffered by the carpes de l'association studentile S'Ha Finint! when they peacefully and democratically diphonize their points of view perpetrated by intolerant people trying to implant a dictatorship of thought. An amendment which, of course, has not been accepted. It has not been accepted because the concept of 'the whole population' of the proposing group, i.e. the Government of the Generalitat, is confined exclusively to the population groups which are in their interest in guaranteeing their rights and freedoms, generally against the rights and freedoms of third parties, which are violated in a faithful and continuous manner practically on a daily basis. We have seen on Meridiana Avenue an individual like Bentanachs boast of his immunity from the possible complaints raised by the police for their efforts to continue cutting that street. Are individuals such as Bentanachs or the clandestine members of those who call themselves CDR, who are outside the law, more vulnerable than neighbours and traders who have been suffering their arbitrary, illegal and anti-democratic actions for years? The truly vulnerable, Councillor Elena, are the citizens who yearn for the separatist hyperventilated to let them live at once in peace.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.166.0	Then, and on behalf of the Socialists and Units Group for Progress, has the words of Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.167.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, said the Member of Parliament Homrani, in presenting, that there was a first expression of Perogrullo, said, making a statement of principles in the first point. So much for Perogrullo is that we'll give him support at this first point. Because I would like to make it very clear that the visit of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units is for the defence of the exercise of the fundamental rights – among which, the right to protest, the right to demonstration, the right to assembly – in a round, clear, clear way. There was no discussion here, there was no discussion. And, therefore, this first point we will vote in favour. But I think that after the motion – and here we do have points of discrepancy, we have made some points that have not been accepted – it creates enough confusion between some aspects, and also the interpretation of a fundamental right, which does not mean that it is unlimited, but I also invite you to the session that Professor Xavier Arbos made at the Police Model Study Commission. He said: "It is not unlimited either; it should also regulate it in some way. Hence, there is a specific general direction for doing this. So I think it sweeps some things under the umbrella of this right's fonamentality, and in a way – I said it now the citizen's wallet – I think it's somehow cheating, don't you? But we, in the thick of the House, see two great problems: for the one side, which generates legal insecurity – and this is the situation to which we are subject – for the Administration, for the police and for the pro-demonstrators also – for the one side – and, for the other, that it is disauthorizing in a way worrying the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, in this case the police. And this is the reason why, in a conjunct of points that follow, in some we will abstain, but in some others we will vote very consciously against it. Legal uncertainty is why, fix it, it says: "Don't support those points that have been expressed. Home, we'd love to see 'lsper written. We didn't see the instruction the department had made; the other day we still asked the Director General to appear, and he disguised and didn't answer. Home, you can't ask us for an act of faith of this magnitude. We have not seen the interpreted criteria. That, moreover, we believe that they cannot be adapted to the law and that they generate insecurity or in the functions that must be carried out by the consignors, or in the proper movements when the acts are carried out. And they generate another thing: it is this disclaimer, this contempt, this disapproval of the police that allows expressions like that of this sinister personage, Bentanachs, tell the police: "They do, they do, that will come – say – "the President of the Parliament and will alienate... Make a tremendous confusion of Montesquieu's disconnection – of course, she is not the President of the Parliament. But, in any case, the problem is not that this person trusts the police with these things, because he has the credibility he has, and we don't have to waste any more time. The problem is that their decisions have led to someone doing these interpretations; that's the problem. Let them tell the police: "Listen, you are doing the acts that you want, that you are not worried, this will not come to fruition. My friends, he said, "from Junts and my friend the president, so they've already taken care of it. This is difficult, from a double perspective: insecurity and police delegitimization, and we believe that this is punishable. And that's the reason why we don't give, we can't give support to criteria that go too far and make an interpretation of the law. Another thing is changing the law – another thing is changing the law. And here we agree. The fixi's instructions... and they were important European documents. There are circulars, there are explicit notes from the Secretary of State for Security that begin to give answer. But, above all, there is another question, which is a parliamentary process of amending the organic law protecting citizen security, colloquially known as the bite, which speaks of the ethnic profiles... And they tell me that this is a text granted in the parliamentary process, which means that it works from a GNP, not from the government. Therefore, urge the Government of the Generality to urge the central Government that you do not know what... Listen, the question goes to the Congress of Deputies, which is where to go, and with a text, in short, of the GNP. They say: "The identification of persons must be based on a reasonable suspicion which responds to the indicative behaviour of the person or to objective information and circumstances. So, what are the profiles in this racial case? And that this is a text that has been advanced; it is in this line that we have to work, not in the line of disallowing the police. And we go back to the origin of everything. At first we told them that you were conceiving the police as a problem, and now we have to say one thing even worse: that the main problem the police have is you, with these interpretations, that they disauthorize them, that they delegitimize them and that they seem to be legal insecurity. And that's not reasonable, and less in these lifts. It cannot be that the main problem of the police – we have told them more than once – follows the Government of the Generality doing this, putting you also at risk functioning and public servants; no longer the police, but the ones to be dealt with, because they have to agree with the legislation in force, not with the desire of a new legislation, which, if the Congress of Deputies does, obviously will be completed, of course, and that there are many that we will be engaged in because some aspects that we cannot tolerate change change. All right, but please complete the law; please donate security; please respect the authority of the police, because, if not, the sinister characters we see in the Meridian have already lost all respect for them. And this is not the fault of these irresponsible people, but of the government, with their actions. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.168.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.169.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, deputies, you serve from the chamber... Tell the Enyorate Jaume Perich that, thanks to the freedom of expression, it is now possible to say that a ruler is useless without anything – to the ruler, neither. Well, that's what Perich used to say when the Brams sang "Jordi Pujol, sex, drugs and rock and roll" or "Els Pets" were cursed to be kings and, by the way, to be head of the State. Now, and concretely since the entry into force of Law 4/2015, of protection of the citizenry security, is to say, the nameless « law bites, these affirmations, the letters of the songs related to politics or corrupt monarchs, serious persecuted as are the songs of Valtònyc or the piuladas, the tweets that the people protest against the feeling of the twenty-five percent of the castle to the Catalan school. I do not know if the Spanish Government was thinking of this phrase of the great Catalan humorist when it decided to make an insufficient reform of the law bite instead of repealing it, as they had announced in the electoral campaign and what is deserved is a law created with a clear repressive will and which forms part of a global strategy of spreading phonental rights in public space, that is to say, to turn back, not in time very grey. And it is that this reform initiated by the Spanish State, in addition, in a way that complements European standards in human rights. And I don't say that, I have to say, the Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Dunja Mijatovic, to the Council of Europe, who, in a letter sent to Congress and the Spanish Senate, denounced that the law does not guarantee, for example, freedom of expression, the right of assembly, the right of refugees to seek asylum, etc. Also, in this mission, you insinuate a complaint that the Irídia collection also does; it focuses on the increase of police abuses and the violation of the rights for disproportionate and arbitrary application that in doing the things of security and that are patenting the citizens, especially for what it does to the right to the demonstration, as we see, unfortunately, every day in our country. This is why, since Juntes, we share the change in criteria that the Department of the Interior intends to apply in the processing of shippers linked to the citizen security law in order to ensure that, above all, the fundamental rights before the interference of this law and, unfortunately, also before the police disproportion in applying it. So, we will give support to the motion presented, if we have given it a deal – which I thank the group of Republicans – for what it does at point 6, because, for Junts for Catalonia, it is essential to age for the derogation of the law, for the derogation and not only for its modification, as stated in the initial text, to end up with practices such as the identifications based on the ethnoracial profiles to which the deputy of Esquerra referred, which is now allowed and which promote institutional racism, with which we cannot agree. We will also support... as a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights, the exercise of fundamental rights can never be considered a crime. Nor can peaceful protest be sanctioned, as it now applies to this law. But let us show support for the motion and reform of the changes in the criteria of the Department of Interior without stopping to be pending the follow-up of the expeditions that have been opened until now, for example, the collection of defense of the right to housing, the demonstrators against the extreme right or the companies of Meridiana Resistix – to the companies of Meridiana Resistix –, who suffer every day the law bite and a violation of their rights. Because, as we said before, even though the Spanish government of the PSOE and We can say that it opposes the law bites, the reality is that it is still applying. If not, we have seen it today, these days, to the trial of Marta and Brian to the TSJ and persecution, for example, to the prosecution for the size of Jonquera, which has only been given to the prosecution of Southern Catalonia, not to the prosecution of Northern Catalonia, which do not have this law in France. Let it be said, if not, in view of the Scale, that after returning from a journey from Ukraine, two seas and three children who fled the war were collected, he was detained for the size of the Jonquera. And let's just end, President, by referring precisely to the war that Ukraine is suffering, with which we are already going to show our solidarity, and today even more, when we know that Russia comes out of the Council of Europe, thus disassociating itself from the European Convention on Human Rights, because we do not want our country to assemble in any country with Russia, that it violates human rights, and because we do not want to see, as the great Perich said, thanks to the war, one cannot only die for his ideals, but can even die for the ideals of another. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.170.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And, after the defense round of the papers, you now have the word to fix your position, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.171.0	Well, thank you, President. Today Esquerra Republicana presents to us a motion that aims to delegitimize the organic law of protection of citizen security, to which the left and separatism call respectively « law gag. The Home Secretary has approved interpretative criteria through which he decrypts the law, the empty content, which, in his case, can only be done by the national legislator. The councillor has legislative powers to repeal de facto an organic law through the back door. We are not going to support a motion that wants to give parliamentary cover to a Councillor's decision which, in our view, is absolutely questionable. The adviser cannot go beyond a law whose full constitutionality has been endorsed by the Constitutional Court. You, Mr de Esquerra, speak of jurisprudence in the motion, but you do not quote a single sentence. I am going to quote a judgment, the most important and the one that seems not to have been read, the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 172/2020 of 19 November, which, as I say, confirms in its entirety the organic law for the protection of citizens' security. So, Mr. Homrani, the organic law doesn't violate rights. Therefore, Mr Councillor, you cannot come here to state that the application of this law violates fundamental rights, because it is a lie and it is an absolute falsehood. But let's talk about some of those criteria that you've passed to circumvent the law, which we've heard from the press, because still, that document, we haven't seen. First of all, you say that a peaceful protest should not be punishable. Obviously, it must not be punishable. But can you tell me when it was? What happens is that you intend to establish a new concept of what is a peaceful protest, that is, you want to tell the Spanish legislator and the Constitutional Court what is a peaceful protest. He wants to tell you that, from now on, in Catalonia, whatever a peaceful protest will be decided by the Home Secretary, that is, you. And, look, the radical groups that mount concentrations, sitting, to prevent the action of justice, to obstruct the action of the agents of authority when they try to enforce a judicial decision, that is neither peaceful nor legal. And I will make it clear to you: what you are looking for in the background is not to have to punish those gentlemen from above, the gentlemen of the CUP, the radical and violent who have taken over the streets of Catalonia and that the Department of Interior, of course, does nothing to avoid it. Another criterion against the axis, against the law, that has been pulled out of the sleeve according to the news: that from now on there is no need to communicate a manifestation to the governing authority in Catalonia, because, even if it is not communicated, you will not sanction it. You're not going to process the infraction records, and this is barbarity. Have you asked the police unions to see what they think? You're going to let it sell to Catalan society and the police that have to defend it. How do the Mossos ensure public order, set up a police device if a demonstration is not communicated and they do not even know their route? It complies with the law, Mr. Elena, the law of citizen security and the organic law regulating the right of assembly and demonstration, and stops protecting the violent. And, look, a special mention, seems to us, by its gravity, to its decision that from now on police images can be recorded, justifying what is supposed to be a right of information. Mr. Elena, are you really going to allow images to be taken and images to be recorded to police officers being on level four, on anti-terrorist alert four? Are you seriously going to allow the physical integrity of our agents and the safety of their families to be endangered? It seems to me, of course, to be an absolutely irresponsible decision. I'm finishing up. From VOX we are, we will always be on the side of the police officers, on the side of the Mossos d'Esquadra, on the side of law and order. And, of course, we are not going to stand next to a minority of radicals for whom you have built a series of interpretative criteria, a minority that cannot question the safety of all Catalans. And we are going to vote against the whole motion, except, of course, the first point, which – as Mr Homrani has already said – is a peregrullada de libre; which we find incredible that it has to be put in writing in a motion in the Parliament of Catalonia that ‘the Parliament of Catalonia is ratified in the commitment to make the human rights and fundamental rights of the whole population prevail. Then it is absolutely obvious; the opposite would be missing. But let's see if you apply the story to yourself, because much talk about human rights, and of course in October 2017 you gave a coup d'état and trampled on the rights of half the Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.172.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.173.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Since we are talking about the right of demonstration, we do not want to start without a small reminder or pass through the massive mobilizations that are due to end this week in Corsica, the result of the assassination attempt of an independent activist in the prison of Arles, in the French State, and which is currently in a coma, while the French authorities have not done anything to clarify the facts. As one of his lawyers put it, Colonna is one of France's most vigilant detainees to get rid of his status, preventing him from being closer to his family, but at the same time the prison administration is unable to guarantee his protection. Therefore, just as the Parliament and the people of Corsica have on various occasions shown their support for our people and our yearnings for freedom, we here today also want to convey all our support. [[Some applause.]] Well, said that, and respect the young man, as we have already translated on repeated occasions to the government and to the forces that conform to the government, as a turn of a hundred and forty degrees in security policies and police policies; as it is at the side of the people, at the side of mobilization, in defense of rights and in defense of who fights and defends these rights; as it is to demilitarize, democratize, more transparency and more prosecution, and as well as fight against any bad police practice to end impunity. With regard to public order, protests and mobilizations must not be answered with public order, they must be answered by guaranteeing rights, in social policies, by combating inequalities and by pursuing injustices. And, respect the information, respect the investigation, such as stopping the persecution of dissent and mobilization, the follow-ups, the files for ideological reasons, the recordings for ideological reasons or the identifications. I, respect transparency, lights and tachographs, both for what you do to orders, directives, protocols, and for what you do to information on concrete cases. And, finally, it is essential, fundamental and necessary to have a public control mechanism, independent, with sufficient resources and with the capacity to sanction police activities. In everything that continues to advance in these objectives, in everything that continues to advance in these great principles that we have already carried out on repeated occasions during this legislature, to be on the side of the government. In everything that continues to advance in these installations of greater transparency, demilitarization, this turn of one hundred and forty degrees, this democratization of the police bodies, this guarantee of rights, there are. In this sense, we will support the total practice of this young man. Above all, we wanted to point out, for this reason, that, for what it does to the new criteria of application of the biting law on the part of the Department of Interior, our position is clear: it is not to apply the biting law in any case, ever. In any case, at this point we will abstain and remain in the hope of seeing how these criteria and what practical applications they have for what they do to the sanctions that have already been imposed, that we are talking about 300,000 euros in housing movement. But in any case, we think that this turn of one hundred and forty degrees, and we think, above all, that it should be noted..., and that is why we also give support to the point that has been negotiated, to repeal the law bite and not change, because we think that when changing what is being done is to buy a mark, which is ultimately a mark of persecution of dissent, repression and persecution of mobilization, which is the mark of the law bite. Therefore, we are for the derogation And then he thought about it. On repeated occasions it has been said that we have the focus in the Interior or that we have the focus in the police respect policies, for example, in the field of denunciations. In the motion before us, we were talking about changing social rights protocols, urgent need for changes in mechanisms, and it was hoped that the terms were not realistic, that the proposals were not realistic, that they were more time-consuming, that with a_me there was not enough... Carry a year of government. If they don't want it all to fall into the final dislocation, they have to put the piles as they rule in social rights, they have to put the piles as they do in protocol changes. And it can't be trusted to a higher court of justice that the only protocol that's changed in this past year's respect for denunciations is that it's now also open the late turn of denunciations. In us they can pose in the hands of justice. We saw exactly how the loggers' regulation law was repealed. We already know that we can't expect more from the state, and we already know that from the courts, neither. For us, therefore, the way is clear: if we do not want to focus on police activities, let us put up with it before, and therefore, that the whole government is conjured to put up with the misdemeanours. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.174.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.175.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, President. I want to start this intervention with two priors, too, after hearing some of the interventions, because she's a young man who talks to us about phone rights. The first is to show our support to the members of the Bureau of Parliament of the past parliamentary term who will be judged for something as inverse as being able to speak, to debate, to vote in this chamber. So when we talk about rights and democracy, I don't think we can normalize situations like this. And the second is that the fact that there is legislation, that this legislation is upheld by a constitutional court that does not let us talk about everything in this chamber does not imply much less or that this legislation is fair or that its application cannot give place to clear abuses of power, as with the law bites. That said, well, in this young man who introduces us to the Republican Left, I think they're basically doing two things. The first is – said MP El Homrani, right? – look for the parliamentary support of this chamber for the announcement that the councillor made to us in the change of criteria in the application by the Department of Interior regarding the law bite. And, on the other hand, what they do is urge the Government of the Government of the State to urge the Government of the State to repeal the law, develop more secure legislation and comply with international standards of respect for human rights. Well, we agree with all two things and, therefore, we will vote in full favour of this motion. Let me tell you, for that, some things, huh? For what he does to the first block, it is certain that, if the problem is the law bites – and then I will refer to it in more detail – it is also true that this change in criteria could have been done before and that the advisors who preceded it told us that it was not possible to do so. Therefore, also with what we are demonstrating is that many times what they tell us that it can't be done in the end turns out that it could be done, and who was applying the law to Catalonia and directing the Squad's Mossos was who it was. And now you're showing us that you can do things another way. And so, in this sense, we celebrate it. On the other hand, yes, it's also..., we believe, don't we? And it's true that we have to ask the Congress of Deputies to repeal the law on bites. It is also true that the Parliament of Catalonia believes that we must ask our Government, the Government of the Generality, to deploy transformative public policies in the field of citizen security. And I say that because sometimes, with this obsession, they have the groups that support the government to bring us here to Parliament right away the government of the government of the state that urges the government of the state to do not know how many things, it seems that some responsibilities have been removed. And what we want and what we believe is that, if it's true that state legislation cannot be a straitjacket that I've built up at the time of deploying our policies as Catalan institutions to where we have competence, as is the case with us and, more importantly, with an integral police such as the Mosso d'Esquadra, the way we do this and the way we act on a law that we don't have to build and make transformative policies, from our Consellaria d'Interior, is through a law of the Catalan police system that we have to do in this Parliament. Therefore, let us put our work here, to our institutions. But, finally, let's talk if they want to, in the short time that I have left, the law bites, because, obviously, I don't want to obviate the central theme of this young man. The first thing I have to say to you is that, indeed, the Government of the State believes that it is late with this issue, but that, even so, it is also true that today the parliamentary groups in the Congress of Deputies are working and coming to terms with it, and there are ideas that we hope that they will be meaningful and that we believe that we can also put them in value. It's true that not everything has come to an agreement. It is also true and you know that in some ways our parliamentary group is much closer to the positions of the Republican Left than to the positions of the PSOE, such as, for example, what makes deportations warm and many other questions. But, said that, I would like to place the emphasis on four elements that are central to us. Pretty quick, huh? The first, the need to guarantee the right to peaceful assembly, which includes non-communicated demonstrations. Peaceful protest cannot be persecuted and much less punished. The second, the images. The police are public servants, they do a public function and, therefore, they must be able to be registered for any city and, much more in a democracy, for the means of communication, which must be able to make this task freely. Third, I.D.'d them. It may end with racial profiling – I think it is obvious – and it may ensure that all police actions must be motivated, provided, with a maximum of two hours to the police station, and it may also end with the presumption of veracity of the officers' statements, because it is one of the great problems that we have today, which is then derived from the judiciary. And, lastly, everything that makes reference – I finish, president – to police protocols, which, indeed, here at our home we also have a lot of work to develop in this sense. And, as we've done other times, we replace the inside councillor to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.176.0	Finally, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.177.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is that I have to admit that I am excited to see the Republican Left claiming the fundamental rights contained in the Spanish Constitution. I really am very excited, and we are very happy with this change, this turn from the Republican Left towards constitutional values. It would be good if, in addition to claiming those here, you too would fulfill them. That would be a wonder. Mr. El Homrani said that the first point is practically Perogrullo's. Yeah, so much Perogrullo that you guys don't keep it. And, therefore, we are not going to support a motion that is a complete hypocrisy, and I believe even a hairstyle. In other words, the only violations of law that have been committed and thus recognized by justice are those of separatism towards the rest. So much so that you threatened with those international support that you were going to get, with those international condemnations... None has arrived – none. The only, I insist, those of separatism, which repeatedly violates the rights of the rest of Catalans. The last, for example, with this judgment which recognizes the right of Catalan pupils to study also in the twenty-five_per_cent language of Spanish. In fact, in Europe you are very attentive to whether or not you are going to comply with this resolution and you are going to investigate whether you are in breach of and trampling on civil rights again, in this case Catalan students and also their families. Therefore, very of Perogrullo, very of Perogrullo, but you do not fulfill absolutely anything. And it is a shame – it is a pity – because, moreover, they come here to give our lessons of fundamental rights, I really tell you that it is a dare on your part. Look, Esquerra Republicana and his partner, the Lords of Junts, and also of the CUP, have been the protagonists of the most serious violation of rights seen in democracy. You have sought to eliminate from a pen the political rights and citizenship of millions of Catalans. You, in order to carry out the famous process, trampled on the rights of the Members of this Chamber; you also assumed that you had stolen the personal data of the Catalans, who, by the way, do not know who has that data; you have also encouraged vandalism against the institutions, and I think we all remember Mr Torra with the famous « presseu, presseu; also Mr Torra, who remembers that it was at that time the President of the Generalitat, who was the leader of the road courts. A president of the Generalitat cutting roads. I would also like to recall how Members or former Members of this House, such as Mr Sabrià, urged citizens to occupy an essential infrastructure such as Barcelona airport; they gave instructions on how they had to mock the police and the Mossos d'Esquadra. You have also justified pressure against public workers, such as the Mossos d'Esquadra or judges, etc. Frankly, to come here today to talk to us about respect for fundamental rights seems, I insist, joke – joke – although it is not funny, because it is really serious. And, for the people who are listening to us and may not know the reality of Catalonia as we live here, that no one believes this is a thing of the past and that it is over. No, no. And I set the example – which has already been discussed here also this afternoon – of the Meridiana. The neighbors, the merchants, the restaurateurs of the Meridiana, who have for two years endured indiscriminate daily cuts that have affected their economy, their quality of life, the coexistence of the neighborhood. And in the end, thanks to the work, thanks to the constancy and complaints of the neighbors, they have finally managed to get the government to move the courts. And what happened? Surprise. What happened? Well, it turns out that separatism continues to cut down the Meridiana, even though this court is disallowed. And, Mr. Elena, don't make me do it with my head because the images are there, and we're seeing how they keep cutting down the Meridiana, plus with such unfortunate statements as that of Mr. Bentanachs, I laugh and ridicule the work of the police. He says, "No, no, don't worry, that this... those of the Mosses don't paint anything. Mr. Elena doesn't paint anything. This was said by Mr. Bentanachs, who also invented a rock-bottom story of how those fines are broken, which, in fact, I would like to know where Mr. Bentanachs gets that idea. But it is that again you delegitimize the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, again you undermine the principle of authority of the Mossos d'Esquadra. I insist: we are not referring to four anonymous people who go there to the Meridiana. No, no. We are referring to Members of this House, to the President of Parliament herself, who have taken part in these courts in a clear act of calling for disobedience. I wonder where the fundamental rights of the residents of the Meridiana remain. Doesn't that matter to you? Doesn't those have to be claimed? Don't those have to be protected? That said, it is hypocrisy, this motion, in its purest state. And, look, from the saying to the fact, in your case, there is a sidereal stretch, as big as the one that goes from separatism to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.178.0	And finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.179.0	MPs, MPs... I'll quickly position myself on the exams. In the first place, Ciutadans is the example of not hearing the motion, of not hearing that we are talking about fundamental rights, not about concrete questions. And even when he himself places the prevaricatory action, I suppose the Council of Europe is accused of prevaricating when he sends a letter to the President of the Interior Committee of Congress, to the President of Congress and to the President of the Senate that there is a violation of rights. They're also prevaricating. Just as the members of the universal periodic review and the other organizations of the United Nations must be prevaricated when they place their serious concerns on the limits represented by the law bite. Sure – sure. It's the day-to-day – the day-to-day. Gentlemen, the worst is not not to see there, the worst is not to want to see there. Unfortunately, sometimes you have physical limitations, but not wanting it is the one thing that keeps me out of it. And I'm short for various reasons, because when Mr Espadaler talks about legal insecurity, what is legal insecurity for a person who ends up at the European Court of Human Rights and gives him the reason why there is case law on respect? Doesn't this one have legal insecurities? What is the legal uncertainty for a person who calls for a demonstration, who has done nothing and who accuses him of being a third party without proof? That's legal insecurity. And it's that it's weak, in legal insecurity. You say, "We have submitted papers to clarify. No, no, They have submitted papers to eliminate... as the letter of the Council of Europe sent to the Congress of Deputies at the February 2022. They've made papers to cover their shames. And that's the problem. And the problem is, if he listens to all the interventions that have taken place at the length of this young man, he should be very concerned about being on the side of VOX, Citizens and the PP. That's what you should be worried about – that's what you should be worried about. [[Greetings.]] I, by the way – president, three_seconds – there are things I try not to talk about – there are things I try not to talk about. You said we're delegitimizing the police. You said there was no... how did you say that? "Res of racial profiles. Please – please – what you're asking is that we don't talk about racial profiling to a person who's stopped him by the police, the Civil Guard and the Squad Mosos asking for his papers. [[Someone says: "Very good!]] Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.180.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.181.0	... as a minimum, we accept the problem. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-10-2602.182.0	So, over with the debate, I'm guessing we're going to proceed, all the while, to the vote on the motions we've substantiated this late, points 20 and... until the 23rd of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation in the agricultural sector and ramader (continuation)]] [[302-00105/13]] We shall begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government on the situation in the agricultural sector and to branch out. In the first place, we shall vote on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7.d. The vote begins. These points were not approved with 17 votes in favour and 108 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved with 10 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We're voting points 7a, 7.b and 7.e now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 13 votes in favour and 112 votes against. And finally, we vote on point 7.c. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 13 votes in favour, 108 votes against and 4 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into wildlife and its impact on the agricultural world (continuation)]] [[302-0108/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government about wildlife and its impact on the agricultural world. Let's vote, first of all, points 1, 5 and 6. The vote begins. This point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 50 votes in favour, 62 votes against and 13 abstentions. Finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 125 votes in favour. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the management of housing alternatives for runaway families (continuation)]] [[302-0007/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the management of housing alternatives for runaway families. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. U, point number one. Point 1 was not approved with 14 votes in favour and 111 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was not approved with 14 votes in favour, 79 against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 was not approved with 20 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting now on the 3a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 63 votes in favour and 62 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point received 62 votes in favour and 63 abstentions. Let's vote point number five. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 59 votes in favour, 62 votes against and 4 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the number 6 point of the motion. The vote begins. This point was approved with 107 votes in favour and 17 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the guarantee of the fundamental rights in mobilizations (continuation)]] [[302-0010/13]] And finally, we proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the guarantee of the rights of the people to mobility. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 119 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 76 votes in favour and 49 votes against. We're voting points four and five now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 69 votes in favour, 49 against and 7 abstentions. And finally, we vote on points 6, 7 and 8 of the motion. The vote begins. These points were approved with 76 votes in favour, 17 against and 32 abstentions. Thank you very much. And raise the session.
