ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.1.0	Good morning, Members, if you can occupy your seats, we'll start with the control session, ask you with an oral answer. [[Ask the Government about the lack of natalitat (hospitable)]] [[310-00197/13]] And, before starting this first item on the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with Rule 164.6 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government and the VOX Parliamentary Group have requested that the question to the Government to answer now, orally in the House, be postponed until the next plenary session. Therefore, it will not be substantiated today. Let us therefore continue with the question to the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the preliminary draft law of the Integrated Social and Health Agency and the new model of personal autonomy. [[Ask the Government about the draft law of the Integrated Social and Health Agency and the new model of personal autonomy]] [[310-00194/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Fàbrega, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Honourable Councilwoman Cervera, Catalonia has some of the highest levels of aging and over-enveloping in the world, with a model of attention to our great people shared between Social Rights and Health. Reality has shown that the response of the health system and social demands to chronicity and our vulnerable people, from an integrated and coordinated vision, needs to be improved. We have seen this with the learnings of the pandemic, social and health integration has become a systemic and ethical responsibility before the confirmed weaknesses. It has long been clear to Catalonia that the Social Rights and Health Departments have to coordinate, they have to work folds. Since 1986, with the Life a Year programme, Catalonia has been a pioneer in this coordination. Because the user is the same person, with different degrees of personal autonomy, and therefore different existential needs in the different states of his life. Last December 1st this Parliament passed a decree that is a big step in this social and health integration, where one of the most important points is that co-payment disappears in the long run. But not only that, but also the decrease in bureaucracy and coordination are very important aspects. Moving forward here is essential to give the right attention to our great people. The attention that is deserved all those who have struggled to achieve the world that we now enjoy. Yesterday it was announced that the Government approved the preliminary memorandum of the preliminary draft law of the Agency – of social assistance – Integrated Social and Health Care. A very long-awaited news for the whole health and social sector and for a very large number of people. This agency must allow us to place the person in the center; above all, our great people, the people with disabilities, the people affect mental illness; in general, all those people with complex requirements. And its autonomy and vital preferences must be kept at most at every moment, betting on home care, with the surrounding known as its home, with the floors served, with the day centres, with the SAIRs. And, at the time of losing personal autonomy, with assisted residences. All this, with the support of the PADES when necessary. An agency with the participation of the Department of Health, the Department of Social Rights and the local world – gatherings and district councils. This was the Junts bet for Catalonia, the bet of our programme, of our government agreement and of the mandate plan. We are pleased to see these steps taken towards the creation of this agency, which is so important and so urgent. In this context, we would like to know what is the idea in which the two departments are working so hard for this future Integrated Social and Health Agency? Thanks, she'll advise and congratulate on the job.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.3.0	To answer, the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.4.0	Thank you very much, President. And thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. You're more than anyone – and you've been mayor as well – you know the importance of being able to do this agency, from this we share so that you can manage these complex malalities, this state of complex life, between the Social Rights departments and the Health Department. You have explained this very well: for decades now, we have been working in these shared areas in Catalonia; since 1986 with the "Life to Years" programme, but also with different interdepartmental plans, comprehensive plans..., 2010 the comprehensive plan of care for people with mental disorders and addictions; 14 with the interdepartmental plan for care, with the PIAISS; or 19, with the PAISS. So, it's been a long time since she's been working on this shared tool. Yesterday, as you said, the government took a step forward and approved the preliminary memo to be able to work on a preliminary project that allows us, precisely, the creation of this integral agency, which I believe, as you say, will be very good for the sector. In fact, both the Health Counselor and myself, from the moment of our appointment we were able to put ourselves to work on this topic. And already at these times we can say that, to the group band of the council advisor who, for some time, since the year 2019 were working on this issue, with a promoter group have already created four working groups, with the idea of the deployment of care in the residential world of the big people and people with disabilities. And above all, also very important, the deployment in the home, also the integrated attention to people with mental disorders and also a very important theme, which is the integration, precisely, of all the information systems, because we believe that the administrations, the organizations must adapt to the needs of their citizens; the needs that have varied. Social and health care a few years ago is different, but also – and you and I know it perfectly well – we need to adapt to the different territorial realities. As you well said, this must be done between the two departments, the Department of Health and the Department of Social Rights and also with the local world. But we also want to do so with the cooperation of the citizenry. So, I mean, the announcements that will surely be given – if nothing else passes the dilluns – will already come out publicly a web page where they will publish all the jobs that have been due until now, there will be a boost of attention to the citizen so that they can also make their contributions, to the front-project band that obviously has to come out with a public consultation. The intention is that in the shortest possible time, the law, we can present it here to Parliament, because then, with the contributions of the different parliamentary groups, it can be a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.5.0	Time's up, Counselor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on digital policies such as economic progress. [[Ask the Government about digital policies as a tool for economic progress]] [[310-00195/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Vice President Puigneró, October 2020 the Government promoted the strategy NewSpace of Catalonia, which allowed almost a year ago, concretely the March 2021 launch of the first Catalan nanosatellite, the Enxaneta. In Spain we have in orbit a genuinely Catalan-named apparatus, symbol of the popular culture of our home. A name that was chosen from a contest in the InfoK platform, in which there were more than two-thousand clicks« Infokari of the country. With the Enxaneta, despite the remorse of mockery that some of us have done, as always, about the Catalan NASA, we have put ourselves in orbit. Because Catalonia is about innovation, leadership and attraction of talent and entrepreneurs. We cannot overlook the economic objectives of this NewSpace strategy, designed to take advantage of and maximize the opportunities of a new economic environment, that of space. The European space industry is one of the most competitive in the world, provides 231,000 jobs and has a great impact on the economy, as more than one per cent of the European Union's GDP depends on services related to space. If we focus on the NewSpace area of our home, we want to replenish the fifty-six businesses and entities, with 147_million euros in billing, and about four hundred workers, who, according to the forecasts of the same businesses, are expected to multiply the billing and occupation by four over the next five years. It is obvious, therefore, that we are showing that NewSpace is a growing sector that needs to be strengthened. And we know that the Generality and, in concrete terms, the Department of Digital Policy that you're encapsulating is doing it. We markets and we economic weaves are necessary for a good development of the Catalan economy and any occasion should take advantage. In this case, the NewSpace will be sure to open up these new markets and new technological and economic opportunities in our country, just as it will be sure to offer us horizons in an emerging sector, innovative, transformative and generator of new occupation. For all this, Vice President, from Junts to Catalonia today we want to ask you how these new digital policies affect our country's economic progress and what benefits will and will the NewSpace strategy, the Enxaneta and the future Catalan nanosatellites entail? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.7.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, Congresswoman, Members. So yes, miri, the launch of the Enxaneta nanosatellite was, in a way, a symbol, huh? A symbol of the pull of this new economy of space, which is an emerging economy, which generates jobs, you have commented. In the reports we are reporting on this new space economy, we are seeing as Catalonia today we already have more than fifty-six companies working in this area, more than four hundred workers, with prospects for growth in the next five years of multiplication by four of these figures, so Catalonia has to play this game in space. And already the announcement that we'd play it with all of you and all of you, so we'd launch a nanosatellite later. And before Mr. Alejandro Fernández and Mr. Carrizosa is nervous, tell them that, listen, that's not weird; they're doing other territories too. Asturias has also announced that it will launch a nanosatellite later. I have also read that the Community of Madrid and some other community is also launching programmes in the field of the new economy of Spain, so we must not be surprised that from Catalonia we want to lead this new economy of job creation and progress for our country. Anyway, I think we have a problem that we need to address. These types of emerging programs, with advanced digital technologies, require European funds, require support funds, huh? And we see how, for example, when these past years, from Catalonia, the technology centres have accessed European foundations, for example, in the field of technologies such as 5G, we have seen how we have competed with Llombardia, with Baden-Württemberg, with different territories at European level, and we have practically taken fifty_percent of these foundations or participated in fifty_percent of the programmes of these foundations. Do you know what's going on? When these funds are not distributed by the European Union, but are distributed by the Ministry or the Ministry of Return from the Spanish State, it turns out that these percentage amounts fall. So, when we compete with European territories, we get much higher auction amounts than when these funds are distributed from different ministries of the State, as, for example, now we see with the Next Generation. Therefore, the question we should ask ourselves is: is it possible that this will happen to us? Therefore, one more time we see how, in a certain way, Spain licks our ability to compete in this global world. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the international dimension of Catalan exile. [[Ask the Government about the international dimension of Catalan exile]] [[310-00196/13]] The question is put by Mr Josep Rius, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.10.0	Thank you very much, President. The Government of Catalonia, presided over by President Puigdemont, has declared 5th of February as the National Day of Exile and Deportation. He made it to commemorate the step along the border, on February 5, 1939, of President Companies, the lehendakari Aguirre, the president of the Spanish Republic Manuel Azaña, among other authorities. As well, there were thousands of men and women of all ages who fled the illegal and anti-democratic barbarism of the national banner with dictator Franco at the front. The step along the border led to the displacement of many citizens, aware that if they did not take the path of exile their lives would run dangerously, and, in the best of cases, they would be subjected to unsecured trials and sentenced to jail for alleged courts of justice. The will to pursue this declaration of the National Day of Exile was, and is also, to generate critical awareness and sensitivity before the exiles and forced displacements that are still taking place today from the world. When it was declared this day, the government already stated that the best way to commemorate it would be to make a memory and feel solidarity. Memory of everything that Catalonia has experienced, and solidarity with all who need it. Now, from that incipient Francoism, forty years of dictatorship and a presumptive transition, we have passed to which, for the sake of some annoyances to listen to it, there has been a raw and real cryptophranchism today. From a situation of exile and deportation survived by the Civil War, we find ourselves today another time with a president of the Generality, with advisers, politicians, musicians and artists in exile to defend the right to self-determination of Catalans or the same freedom of expression, as is the case with rapper Valtònyc. They are in exile to continue defending these rights, aware that if they were not, they would be unjustly condemned and wrongly condemned as well as passed during the dictatorship. As many as a few days go by before the hour, I end with a few words from President Puigdemont of the past, in Brussels: "It will be more or less late, but it will pass. The cause of exile will end up winning and defeating its illustrious buryers. And he adds: "We never lose reason, hope, and loyalty for what led us to exile. For all this, counsel, they ask you to explain to us how the government celebrated this year the Day of Exile and Deportation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.11.0	To answer the word, Ms. Victòria Alsina, Counsellor of External Affairs and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.12.0	Thank you very much, President; Member. "Exile is an injustice, but you will win because you have the strength of reason. This phrase is not mine, this phrase is not political, this phrase said by Rosa Maria Duran, great Rosa Maria Duran, hidden in 1927 and exiled in Mexico, currently degana and representing Mexican exiles from the Catalan Orpheus. Rosa Maria Duran, in an act of recognition that we made from the outside the disembarkation passed to Mexico, also said to us: « Normally they tell me how it is to keep the match between Catalonia and Mexico. She said: "No, no, no, no, I have two colors, I have the Mexican color and the Catalan color. It's very important to gather witnesses from all these people. In fact, it was an authentic honor, you become past, you can be in Brussels and you can participate in the presentation of an exhibition led by Justicia, A Nation in Retreat, together with Councilwoman Ciuro, with Deputy Rius, and in this sense, power, in the heart of Europe, in this area Catalonia-Europe that we have at the Brussels delegation, to present a very well-selected collection of photographs on which it was based, the graphic images that international agencies made of this exile crossing the border in 39. "Exile," we said, "the condition of being removed from your own country for political reasons. This is the orthodox definition. The other day, what we wanted to do was a tribute to exile, but beyond that, a tribute to exiles, leaving it all behind, starting again. Unfortunately, we all know that exile is not a thing of the past, and so we were accompanied by President Puigdemont, we were accompanied by advisers to exile, and together we reflected on exile as a global phenomenon. We talked about asylum, we talked about refugees, we talked about exile and how it affects us all and connects us all. In this sense, Belgium joined, many years ago, President Macià, Josep Carner..., therefore, we were able to do so also in a collide land. And he wanted to end up sharing with all of you the importance that the government makes this recognition recognize the good work being done by Councillor Ciuro and the Department of Justice in all historical memory programs. And to say that they will always have exteriors at their side because all this diaspora forms part of what is Catalonia in the world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.13.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the nomination of the 2030 Winter Olympics. [[Ask the Government about the 2030 Olympic Winter Games nomination]] [[310-00189/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.14.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Vilagrà, how much money have you spent on the Generalitat in reports awarded to you on the Barcelona-Pirineus candidacy for the Olympic Winter Games 2030, and in the report on the impossibility of holding a consultation on those games in which only six regions of Catalonia participate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.15.0	To answer the word, Ms. Laura Vilagrà, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.16.0	Thank you, President. Well, at this point, I don't have this cup, but anyway, I'd make it easy for you right away, when we get out of here. The candidacy of the Olympic Games Pyrenees-Barcelona 2030 is obvious that it has a complex approach, we are seeing these days, these months, because it has many territorial, environmental, political, social derivatives. Because you have a lot of institutional actors who have a lot to say, social too. And what the government has done is take it and give it to everyone, and especially to the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran, which, as you know, is the smallest lifetime in the population but larger in territories, and in this sense, obviously, with all the natural, territorial actions that accompany it. And in this sense, what we have done and what we are doing is to make a participatory, collaborative project, and not the part of the Barcelona dépatxos, closed, but, on the contrary, we are listening to the view of the territory in an open way and because we can also become the godfather of their considerations, elements, because we want this candidacy to be useful for generating opportunities in that territory, in the territory of all of Pirinius, also for the arrival that we want to leave, and also because we want it to be sustainable in all terms: environmental, social and economic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.17.0	To answer the question, Congresswoman Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't believe anything. In all countries, autonomous communities and normal cities, an Olympic candidacy is an opportunity. They agreed to Barcelona's formidable transformation thanks to the 92nd Games. But not only do you become incompetent and incompetent with Barcelona-Pirineus, you not only do everything in your hand to blow it up, but you still manage not to have these Winter Games still cost us more and more money. All Catalans have to pay for a report from the Conselleria d'Exteriors that says what they know up to a four-year-old, that even by stretching the Statute and the Constitution as a gum one can make a consultation between four cats to say what affects at least sixteen. Do you really believe that if they were touched by the crest for the 9-N, it would be possible for the inhabitants of the Vall d'Aran, Pallars Jussà and Sobirà, Alta Ribagorça, Alt Urgell and Cerdanya to stand and decide on a candidacy that, above, is called, or wanted to be called, Barcelona-Pirineus? Look, this wouldn't buy Josep Pla a sunset evening in Cadaqués. Who came up with this delusional master play? Quico Homs? Joan Clos? Or Joan Ignasi Elena? , that man who, before covering up a corruption case, dies. Well, look, all of them have been asked to report on these Games. Ghost reports that must be written in invisible ink, because we have asked to see them and, at the moment, there is no way they'll give them to us. You guys, giving figures, nothing. Definitely, in recent times it seems that people, reality, political neutrality and the separation of powers are being held back here. Mrs Vilagrà, leave Montesquieu alone, who comes as big as democracy to Mrs Anna Erra or exile to Mr Puigdemont. You seem to have convinced many of you, if not all of you, that no one sees or looks at you, that the day we do not catch you in a lack of transparency, we hear the Speaker of Parliament emulating Pinocho. Finally, we have had to ask that the press be able to attend the Board of Spokesmen. We need light and stenographers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.19.0	Time's up, Mrs. Grau. To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.20.0	Thank you, President. Well, honourable Member, you think that the Upper Pyrenees are four cats, but, of course, it's normal, you don't have a governor of Manresa up there. And it's logical [[some applause]] they don't know absolutely anything about the Pirinaeus. In any case, as at present, there had never been so much talk of the Pyrenees, of its needs, interests, desires, proposals. And just for that, it's already great news that we've opened the debate. The government has a strategy for the Pyrenees, obviously beyond the Olympic Games, because we talk with the whole territory about issues of mobility, connectivity, rural agenda, economic diversification, territorial rebalancing. And one of the buddies, obviously, is the Olympic Games proposal. In any case, led by Catalonia, yes, in a participatory process that we will lay the decision to the territory, led also because there are no speculative interests, and led by Catalonia because we are a sport country, we have shown it several times and every end of the week we show it when thousands of people do sport or do various sports events. In any case, the last thing this candidacy has to do is for people like you, like your deputies and deputies, the parliamentary group, to cast this candidacy of star territorial polemics. And, above all, the last thing this candidacy needs is to infuse it with its grudged nationalism. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.21.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the model of dependence. [[Ask the Government about the model of dependency]] [[310-00188/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jessica González of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.22.0	Good morning, Counselor. Last week Amnesty International gave us alarming data in a report that talked about two key aspects. The first, that the nine thousand people who died in residences in Catalonia were a direct consequence of a totally massive model and lack of resources. The same report spoke of how the protocols, as well as the Generality, prevented thousands of great people from accessing the right to salvation, the right to health services, didn't they? And all of this is supposed to be working out from the social-health agency, just like you said. But we have to bear in mind that they had consequences like what we saw in Tremp, where forty-three per cent of the residents died in less than one month. Secondly, we find that the criminal prosecutions created for these issues that occurred to the residents, the ninety per cent have been filed. What does the government intend to do beyond what it has already announced about the social health agency?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.23.0	To answer the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.24.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, yes, we know that the pandemic was especially cruel to the big people and the big people who, moreover, lived in the residences. This is a debate that you started in the Parliament of Catalonia, which I know is planning to do some work group, too, to be able to debate what happened those days. It's true that this is a couple, almost a year and a half ago, so it's true that we have to try to sneak in because what happened happened. It is also true that the pandemic was difficult to manage, not just in the residential area, but in the general population area. What can you do to improve this situation? Justly, this Integrated Social and Health Agency that must allow us to work with the residential world from the shared realm, from the realm of social services and from the realm of salvation. We also have European foundations. European foundations must enable us to move forward in this new model of personal autonomy, with calls that we have just brought to public contests because of the residences, because the joint ventures, also the first residences that the Generalitat of Catalonia has, can therefore do the dues and can adapt these spaces to those needs that today have the citizens. Since the Department we were doing, as you know, there are different inspections. Inspections which, in the case of, for example, residences, were more than 1,400 residence inspections, of which one hundred and twenty-nine residences have been intervened and sanctioned. You're asking for the actions that are open at these times in the prosecution. Some are closed and as you will understand, we have nothing to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.25.0	To answer the question, Congresswoman Jessica Gonzalez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.26.0	Yeah. Well, you yourself, Counselor, also remind us of what happened a few months ago when the Socialist Party, when the Republican Left and your party, Together for Catalonia, voted against the residency investigation commission. And, as you have also recalled, you have agreed to make a group of experts. Three months have passed and we have not seen any movement by parliamentary groups to formalize this. And you will say: "One thing is Parliament and another is the Government for the division of powers that we have. But a direct responsibility of the government is the guarantee of rights. The guarantee of the right to truth, to reparation and to justice on the part of families. The guarantee of the right to workers to work in decent conditions when they have been at the front line. Guaranteeing the rights of people who are big enough to feel that they are walking towards a different model. Then, counsel, concrete questions. For when to review the ration? For when is the territorial planning of the needs, in a broad sense, of the model of aging in Catalonia? For when is the compliment of commitments made, like for example to Santa Coloma with the Miguel Hernández center, which is now totally in the area? For what government action do you prove to be interested in the truth? As the institution considers that we cannot give the scheme to families, that we cannot say that this is a criminal issue and it is already, but that action must be taken to help us take responsibility, to ensure transparency and, above all, to repair those families that still, today, feel abandoned by the institution. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.27.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.28.0	Thank you very much, President. You yourself said this: the work that can be done by parliamentary groups in Parliament, all the more respect, and we as a department will be at the mercy of parliamentary groups to see who are the conclusions they make of their own debates. About the new model– you talked about it–, eight months ago we were in the government. We're going to approve the presupposition at the end of December. In this premise there is, precisely, 55_million euros in order to be able to dedicate them to places and to be able to reduce the waiting lists. This is also the department's focus; we want to reduce these waiting lists. But, as you know, one of our priorities is to change this model of personal autonomy. We believe that we have to bet on deinstitutionalization, and this also affects people being able to live where they are and how they want the time they want with as much attention as possible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.29.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the plan of strengthening the Catalan language to the system of knowledge. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan language's strengthening plan in the knowledge system]] [[310-00187/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.30.0	Yes, thank you, President. Ms. Counsellor, according to the Education Counsellor, language learning is not of percentages, but of pedagogy. But you've just approved a plan for eighty percent of college classes to be done in Catalan. What are we left with? Were the percentages not so bad?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.31.0	To answer, has the word Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.32.0	Good morning, Congresswoman Roldán. You, who went to the Via Catalana, what you could have done was come the divender, on this day 28, that there were more than two-hundred personalities of the scientific and research field, and I would know exactly what is the content of the language enhancement plan, which does not go through what you just said. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.33.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.34.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, that in Catalonia there is no problem with language is one of the favorite litany of independence. You repeat it without ceasing, waiting for that evil drop to shut up and someone to believe your lies. And I recognize that perhaps in the past it has worked for them, but I feel like telling them that no longer – no longer – because their obsession is bad for Catalonia and has simply brought us ruin and confrontation. And, also, let's say by the way, because the turra is starting to be unbearable. So much so that there are more and more young people who do not use Catalan, because you have made Catalan antipathic, which is what happens when you try to impose things by force. Because in Catalonia there is no problem with the language, but if you label your business in Spanish, you are fined; if you care for your customers in Spanish, they boycott you, and if you ask for bilingual schooling, separatist beings of light, they harass you. There is a problem with the language and you have generated it, and even in the European Union you have already realized it. The last hit has been to ask college students to rat out teachers who teach Spanish, huh? , generating good roll and fostering coexistence, isn't it, Mrs. Geis? What I don't explain is how you may have to chase and harass teachers to speak Catalan. But didn't you say that the whole educational community is fully committed to monolingualism? Don't you see that they contradict each quarter of an hour? Look, teachers need better working conditions and less imposition. But you like to work as a language commissioner rather than as a university counselor. Look, in short, you deny the percentages in primary and ESO claiming that they are anti-pedagogic, I insist – says Gonzàlez-Cambray himself – while you ask for an eighty_per_cent Catalan at university. The sad reality is that neither is based on pedagogical criteria, but on their ideological sectarianism, as always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.35.0	To reply, the Research and University Advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.36.0	Miri, we're not obsessed. You're obsessed with language, and the one you don't get here in Parliament goes to the courts of justice, and they think they'll get it. The linguist Carme Junyent that you're selling is that everything you're trying to impose is doomed to failure, and imposing a linguistic conflict when there's no one in Catalonia is condemned to failure. That sale there were representatives... all the rectors. We've been given all the public and private universities in this country, and what we're doing is repositioning the country, from which is the position of the catalá in the university sphere. He's not ratting on anyone here. Here what is done is to guarantee the language rights to students who are enrolled in an assignment and who are informed that that assignment will be shared in català. It's just that. You can tell all the lies you want, but the university search system in this country will work with diagnosis, with data, with sereneness, with rigour and with something that you do not raise with these three Members, with consensus. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.37.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on popular consultations. [[Ask the Government about popular consultations]] [[310-00193/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater, Member of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counsel, their department is responsible for organizing electoral and participatory processes. Did your department plan to organize the consultation on the Winter Olympics? If so, what date did you plan to celebrate it? Will this consultation be binding? Which territories will be consulted? What's the question? What will be the cents of the consultation? Did you expect the citizens of the Ripollès, Berguedà and Solsones regions to be able to participate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.39.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.40.0	Thank you, President. MP, look, do you know why the International Olympic Committee considers the Barcelona Games the best games in history? Because of the implication of the citizenry. He doesn't feel like playing games if they don't count on the support of the territory and if people don't get it. Therefore, yes, I confirm that from outside we have..., in concrete terms, from the Government Obert, from the Council, we are at the Office of the President, from the Secretary of Sports to be able to materialize this consultation and to do so in a way that we listen, therefore, to the people to whom more directly the realization of these Games will affect. Making the Games and submitting this candidacy forms part of the governing agreement for the investiture. It was approved in a motion of this Parliament, and the party, I mean, won in that demarcation brought it to the election program. So we'll pull it out. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.41.0	In answer, you're told by Mrs. Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.42.0	Yes; counsel, you did not answer me to questions respecting the date, to the question, if it will be binding, who will be the hundred. And, all the way, I'm also asking if you've actually said it, but I think you've felt like organizing some Winter Olympics in a Mediterranean country and in full climate change? Actually, the authorized views on the climate change are every time they make themselves feel more, they're making the warning of the purpose that is to do these Olympic Games. Moreover, for the economic model they represent, an economic model that generates precarious, temporary occupation, that does not diversify the opportunities of work in the area and that does not solve absolutely the problems that have historical to the Pyrenees. Despite all this, despite the fact that there are economic alternatives to the sustainable, socially and ecologically, Pyrenees, it seems to you that this does not matter to them. And your government, as you said now, has obviously congratulated the employer, has already started this campaign. We still don't know what question there will be, yet we don't know what the concrete project is, the ways and means to answer this consultation have not seen any plans, you don't tell us the question, don't tell us when to do it, but they're already campaigning for the yes. And, therefore, it seems to us that this is not an honest or rigorous way to prepare a participatory process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.43.0	To answer the words of the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.44.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, the Games will be based on sustainability criteria and that all the money that is reversed will be reversed not for fifteen days, but for long-term projects for the Pyrenees. So, in this sense, as it couldn't be otherwise, if I wasn't in favor of the Games, it would be that way. There will be an important information phase that has not yet arrived. I don't think you know the project well today, and you can't vote on this project if you don't do this information phase. Therefore, this will be the first. What goes on is a phase in which everyone discovers the project as it's being planned, can incorporate ideas and express their opinion to enrich it. Therefore, this information phase is fundamental. And then the vote will come. Here I have to tell you that the standard marque we have in Catalonia is tremendously complicated. We have the referendum law of the 10th, the non-referendum law of the 14th, which they share is that they have been escaped because the Constitutional Court did not seem well that it is voted in Catalonia. About res. So, in this complicated legislative framework, from my department we are studying all the boxes to make a consultation possible in a framework that is not favorable to us. And, in fact, I wanted to take advantage to share with all of you that one of my consulting projects for this year is to promote a new law of participation, the first law of ubiquitous participation in Catalonia that orders us the map and makes life easier for us from then on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the European Nuclear and Gas Union's view of green energy. [[Asks the Government about the European Nuclear Energy and Gas Union's view of green energy]] [[310-00184/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Mrs Maria Jesús Viña, of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.46.0	Thank you, President. Commissioner Jordan, the European Commission has put forward a formal proposal to classify green energy as investments in natural and nuclear gas in taxonomy, which sets out which activities can be sustainable on the financial markets. In the case of nuclear power, it affects those already in operation and those that can be built until 2045. Nuclear energy is an energy that requires uranium, a mineral, and emits large amounts of CO2, a large amount of winter-effect gases. You can't think of it as a green energy. An energy that, moreover, generates dangerous residues that are keeping radioactius hundreds of thousands of years. In our country we currently have three nuclear reactors in operation located in Vandellòs and Ascó. Ascó, at the Ribera d'Ebre, and Vandellòs, at Baix Camp. Some reactors that are expected to stop running by 2030. We have been concerned about this proposal from the European Commission since the Ebre lands, which may lead to an enlargement of the functioning of these centres which we have around us. The Ribera d'Ebre, together with the Upper Land, the Baix Ebre, the Priorat and the Baix Camp are already planning their future nuclear-free, a future that passes to promote policies that allow the economic reactivation of these territories from the resources that will be allocated from the recapitulation of the new tax that charges the generation of nuclear energy and that will bring for this objective 24_million euros a year to the territory. Because the Lands of the Ebre and the Lower Camp we don't want to depend on nuclear, we don't want nuclear. For all this, she would like to ask: we know that the Government is working on an energy transition based on a model that drives the development of renewable, zero-kilometer cent_per_cent energies, energy efficiency, self-consumption, intelligent management networks and the democratization of the energy market. So, how do you see this layout that says an open door to the enlargement of nuclear life? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.47.0	To answer the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, president. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Miri, with the climate-emergency situation in which we are involved in this country, cannot be in any other way than the government's stake and compromise is, in the first place – and you also pointed it out – to contribute decisively to making the energy transition in this country; also, at the same time, to advance towards a society where the consumption of fossil fuels, obviously, tended to be nil. I, third, guarantee a decentralised energy system, a decarbonised energy system and, obviously, based on renewable energies. And, in this sense, I would like today, as a result of your question, to make clear that with these commitments we are doing nothing but to make sense and reaffirm what we are going to conjure up all our pleas in the National Energy Transition Pact and also with the Law, one of the most pioneering laws we have ever done in this Parliament, which is the Climate Change Law. And, second of all, let'mdir also..., take advantage of the fact that the decision of the European Union in no case – in no case – will change our full route because we now know – we know – that a Catalan energy model, a net, democratic, distributed and nuclear-free energy model is possible. And why do you know that? So basically why are we going to sell Catalonia's energy foresight with this 2050 horizon and, in other words, let's say that the government, for the first time, has a document that analyses the possible evolutions of our country's energy system and also defines which strategies are needed to materialize this massive energy transition. The first conclusion is that Catalonia will absorb the climate neutrality of the energy sector by the year 2050, if intensively we bring these strategies clearly to good use. Of course, we also know that the calculations made tell us to achieve these twelve-thousand megawatts in 2030 and, finally, to grow to nearly 62,000 megawatts in 2050. These figures have to allow, I say, basically for one canton to shut down nuclear power as planned and, for the other, to cause wind energy to exceed fifty per cent of the electricity generation in the country and photovoltaics, forty-three. It's a giant repte, but we're prepared to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.49.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the road left. [[Ask the Government about the analysis of road leftness]] [[310-00185/13]] The question is posed by Mr José Rodríguez of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.50.0	Thank you, President. Honorable Counselor. We welcome the fact that left-handed data have decreased significantly, as reflected in the analysis of the left-handedness of 2021 in Catalonia, which recently published the Catalan Transit Service a few days ago. It has lowered mortality to the road a twenty-i-dos_per_cent compared to 2019, it has lowered a forty-four_per_cent respects almost a little more than two years ago. Yes, a single person killed on the road in an accident does not cease to be a social catastrophe. As well as the good news, we are also concerned about the increase in long-distance traffic accidents and that motorists' accidents do not fall as low as tourist accidents. Of course, in the future we will have to redefin our lives because, all the better technology and security, and consciously oriented campaigns, our paths are still very insecure for the roadmen, cyclists and motorists. And this has a purpose: it's that they're meant to be basically exclusive to cars, without space for other modes of mobility. But there's a cipher that surprises us and tells us that there's a genera on the left side of the road. The percentage of fatal accidents in which a woman is a driver is less than fifteen percent, and this contrasts with the fact that women are forty-three percent of the people who drive. There may be some explicit socio-economic effects, such as professions such as road transport, where professionals make many kilometres and are more at risk of accidents, are very masculinated. But I wouldn't explain all this genera. Other studies and these data begin to make it very palpable that there are certain risk behaviors and types of conduct more risky than men and not women, and this risk behavior affects women, since when they are passers-by, cyclists or travellers they have mortality taxes so high or sometimes higher than men. It is important to be aware that men are responsible for most fatal accidents. For this reason, let's allege that the left-handed report contemplates this gene element. For all this, counselor, what early steps will they take to get to know more about the causes of this accident because they can design road safety policies that include this genera? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.51.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.52.0	Well, first of all, thank the question, because it puts on the agenda a question that is especially worrying, especially difficult, especially worrying and especially dramatic, that is accident, traffic accidents and road deaths. The 21st was better than the 19th, which is the reference we take, because the 20th, finally, we were confined for a long time. So yes, it's going to be better, actually. He said, twenty-two per cent less mortality. Now, is this gonna be a good year? Of course not. One hundred and forty people have lost their lives in the streets and in our towns and cities, and this is insurmountable and unacceptable because of the tragedy that causes families, people who are victims of traffic accidents. We have an objective. We have the objective of lowering to a fifteen per cent more than the year 23, fifty to the 30th. And a European goal that is that of the year 50 not to be as dead as the consequence of the accidents. To advance in this direction, I would pay special attention to the most vulnerable: travellers, cyclists and motorists, you said. There is an impacting xifra: it has dropped in the last few years, approximately, forty-five percent the number of dead, but in change in absolute numbers is kept approximately the same name of motorists who lose their lives. And therefore, the emphasis should be on putting it very specifically in this sector, and this means training, awareness and technology also to the service of this work. There's one element he's made reference to, which is genera. It's often a mockery of this question. But look: the eighty-sep_per_cent of drivers who die are men. Eighty-set_per_cent. And, in change, there are fifty-seven percent of men who have a driving license and forty-three percent of women. It's a sifter that hits and breaks a few topics. From the start, that old, stupid, stupid thing, according to which men lead better than women. There is an evidence that there is a link from the perspective of accidents and mortality to the reels that must be faced from the perspective of formation but also in the awareness campaigns that we are pulling from the department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.53.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Local Government Council. [[Ask the Government about the Local Government Council]] [[310-00186/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ernest Maragall of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.54.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Vilagrà, the Council of Local Governments has reactivated the past Tuesday 1 to fever after seven years blocked, and in this same parliamentary forum we have listened to you, Councillor, one and another time explaining to what extent the new Generality counts with a committed government, with a government aware of what the local world means. Today we see that we have given a step forward meaning to complete the institutional map of Catalonia. The Council of Local Governments, let me hide, is much more than a municipalist entity, it is the authentic or genuine Council of Cent that we have held for many centuries, which was in force from the 13th century until 1714, precisely. Today we are talking about a powerful reality, a central piece of the institutional bloc we call Generalitat, together with the executive power, which corresponds to the government, together with the legislative power, which this Parliament assumes as its own of popular sovereignty, today we count on this local power, which is the genuine expression of its existence and its central function. A _fourth power, but not a counterpower that the local world will exercise with all the consequences in the three spheres, in the three senses that define it: representation, participation, autonomy. Not just to claim or lament the classic hardships or the competitive or financial hardships; but to address and resolve these and many other urban, social, and environmental issues in a low degree of equality. All the complexity that people and vile people have to manage day by day as well. A power born to be an active and legitimate part of the decisions that concern them. A power to build southern Catalonia, Catalonia in a royal network of towns and cities, with Barcelona capital, the Catalonia we need to be a strong and free country. This country they know is possible. It's time to rule, to make decisions, it's time to end the paralysis that affected the mass of our country's essential spaces. To strengthen our institutions, counsel, is to strengthen the country. No secret plans, no master games. Government, compromise and work. Compromise also with the citizenry that now needs strong local governments to be able to demand the retention of accounts. In his constitution, the council chose as president the mayor of Figueres, Agnès Lladó, a Republican woman, brave, with country vision and will of transformation, who was elected mayor in 2019. We don't expect much of her and the council. They know your commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.55.0	Time's up, Mr. Maragall. To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, [[applause]] Councillor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.56.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. MP, that my first words serve to put into value the pride of the Catalan municipalism that we have, which was gathered at the Hall of Cent of the Assembly of Barcelona, also at its Assembly, in this constitution of the Council of Local Governments or reconstruction, we might say. One hundred mayors of the country, effectively, with the mayor of Figueres, Agnès Lladó, in the front, a woman with firm republican convictions with the impenetrable need of Catalan municipalism, together with four vice presidents, the mayors of Esparreguera, the Prat de Llobregat, Berga and Gironella. In this sense, the government's objective is to give a view of the municipality in this Parliament of people and cities that I gave, this fourth power – I liked the expression –, "the time of municipalism. And for the government, it's a strategic tool, actually, not just to take back what was left of 2015, but this 2015 until the 22nd has passed many things to us, but also the municipal world has had a legislature or is having a very complicated legislature. Therefore, what it is about is to give a new focus to this entity, to this council with an honest relationship with the government to co-decide, as it does on those issues that affect the municipal world. The Generality, therefore, wants strong local governments, empowered, and we want to have present all the sensitivities: territorial, ideological, the sum of rural and urban capacity, and, therefore, that all the small, medium and large municipalities, metropolitan cities, micropopular, therefore, feel represented and well represented. The mayors who spoke referred to the role of local world gatherings in complex times and also to the need for this co-governance that we spoke of. And, obviously, we know that the government also has a lot of rights to make this council strong, with the tools and resources that it needs, that we will stay from the Presidency, because you walk with strength, because it is useful to strengthen the role of municipalism, because if it is reinforcing municipalism, it is strengthening the country's joint. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.57.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in plenary on the situation arising therefrom. [[Ask the Government about the situation arising from the same]] [[310-00190/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joaquim Paladella, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. It's been a long time since Catalonia rained. Water reserves are at 50 per cent of its capacity. This means that there are areas in Catalonia that are looking for or by forty_per_cent. The aquifers notice the same and have significantly lowered their yield. Areas of Vallès and Empordad, and part of the Anoia and Penedès are on alert or early warning. The situation the ACA describes as worrying, and the forecast of plugs for the spring are not too optimistic. We have experience in Catalonia at all. In fact, the Mediterranean climate has already brought us experiences of hard and important even. The latter was the year 2008. This episode, long lived history, should and should make us prepared, more so when all the predictions for climate change make us think that these extreme periods can increase and worsen. Today, the government has at its disposal a plan of equals and a special plan for the crib. I can count on a special fund that from the year 2012 until today has collected 50_million euros. That's why we want to ask him what measures he has to respect, what investments he has financed or plans to finance with these funds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.59.0	To answer, you have the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.60.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, first allow'mfer a consideration. At these times, our country is not the same. Yes, it is true that we are in advance, and it is also true, that it seems to me that you pointed it out, that there are twenty-two municipalities in our country that are on alert, huh? , especially in the Empordà area. We wear tables, you also said, that it does not rain, but we also wear tables working to optimize to the maximum the water we have to be able to guarantee, obviously, that it could not be otherwise, all the requests that are asked in the country. And that's possible, so tell me too, thanks to the special plate at once. A special dish that is a tool approved by the government, the generation of 2020, is to say, some day ago, and that what it does is to manage water scarcity in our home.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.61.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Joaquim Paladella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.62.0	Yes, counselor. Our parliamentary group would like to express our absolute willingness to help, to talk about it and to work together if the situation evolves worse. But we want to make two judgments. First. These days we've felt distress in the primary sector, especially in the cereal sector, which is the first and most immediately affected by it. However, it should be pointed out that after this sector, the others will come: fruit, wine. It is necessary to act and to preserve as far as possible the smallest adjustments of the Reg, and it is also necessary to take administrative decisions to help the sector. We don't leave them alone. Next. There are many experts who tell us that the natural water circle can no longer be enough to cover the growing needs, and, moreover, to respect the natural environment and river flows. As a result, we need to invest in potables, desalators, and infrastructures that take advantage of today's technology to provide real solutions. Ensuring the administration of the entire territory of Catalonia is a necessity and must be a priority. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.63.0	To answer, there's the word Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.64.0	Many thanks, Congressman Paladella, for your offer. I'll explain the plan a little bit. It is true that he also asked me for investments from the Catalan Water Agency, but he will agree with me that I will explain this when I want to or in another question, but if we talk about it today, it seems worth doing. In this case of this plan as much as I gave it, this plan basically has two very basic functions: One is to anticipate water squandering, which is possible. You were talking about the lack of rain. And the other, to take action in advance, but also depending on the territory, is to say, in a territorialized way. It's not the same point of the country as another. And in any case we have to do it this way. It helps us, in short, to manage the possible lack of water in a concrete way, in a direct way also this plan and, if it allows me also, in a adjusted way, that it is not easy but in any case we understand it that way. The most important thing to note is that this government, and you also pointed it out, has after the same episodes that we have experienced over the last few years, that have unfortunately been seven more than one. It didn't go so far as to say that it's gotten much better. Therefore, in the case of a similar situation, let me tell you that we have more tools, especially more detection tools, but above all many more tools of action, in this case. The actions that we have been doing are extremely well known, but in any case, what we have to do now is prepare ourselves to manage this possible episode of the same which, I repeat, is not the day of today's decree, but obviously I must also say that, from the Catalan Agency of Water, we are not alarmed, basically because this plan of the same works, because we are more prepared than ever, but this yes, working intensely for what can come.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.65.0	Time's up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.66.0	Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.67.0	Ask the government. to respond orally in the ple on the recovery program after covid's on-board sisena. [[Ask the government about the recovery program after covid's on-board sisena]] [[310-00191/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, Member of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.68.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. After almost two difficult years it seems that we are or see the output of this wave, but also from the basket. They tell us the data, the measurements are relaxed, today we are 100 per cent of the deputies here and we reopen the night octopus. A good part of the population is immune and we do not open to new forms of management of the covid, let's say flu or normalization. What is clear is that our health services, primary care, but above all citizens, we need to recover a new stage. And it's going to take a lot of things back, the infradiagnostic, the prevention, especially the attention to chronicity, the home care, the approach to waiting lists, but above all to know what is the state of salvation of our citizens. We would like to ask you, counselor, what is the short and medium term plan of the council to address all these aspects, such as recovering the quality of care from primary care? In summary and to summarize it, counselor, what is the exit plan or how do we approach the postcovid? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.69.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.70.0	President... Mrs Escarp, you have said, two years of covetous everywhere, in Catalonia, in Europe, focusing only on a single disease, what it does is that practically, therefore, there are many other diseases, impacts on health, clearly. It's what came to name the hidden page and it's coming up and it's coming up. Therefore, from the Health Department, the first one that has been done, and this Parliament approved, it is a 160_millions plan, 60_millions destined for all that is diagnostic activity and, therefore, to come out all this underdiagnostic that has been possible..., that we have in this sense, all that we have recovered a lot – that we also have to say. And then, 100_millions destined for everything that refers to surgical waiting lists that, in this sense too, is to say, we have recovered, therefore, with enough growth. We're at this point in the night-night of 19th. Still, there's still a lot left to recover and, therefore, this 160_million recovery plan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.71.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.72.0	Thank you, Counselor. As a matter of fact, I see that we have a plan of..., basically two issues that concern us a lot and seem to share, because do you know what's going on? That I get rid of me every time I hear talk in some statements that we go back to normal, because I'm worried. What's the normality of coming back? At the 2009, that the professionals made a move to have twelve minutes to attend to the patients? The normality that we have been creating, centralizing services and reducing services in primary care, for example, to pediatrics, or the abandonment of some geographic areas, the normality of endless lists of hope, some professionals that can no longer and now tell them to return to normality that they already refuse and cannot manage. What concerns us about truth, counselor, is whether or not we work for a new normality, apart from addressing, say, the post-covid output, because, as experts say, inertia and demand can return us to a dynamic, above all to primary attention, superimposed and expecting changes that never arrive. Some changes that need to incorporate technology and management of the own agenda. Counselor, we would appreciate it if there was a plan of infradiation, but we would also like to know if we would have the long covid or all the requests for mental salvation that we have. Counselor, we have a shared plan, some twenty-six points that we have approved in this plenary council and that sometimes it costs me to see the realization, the specific measures and the needs. We wish to return to normality, but not to insecurities and, above all, we wish to recover the salvation of the people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.73.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.74.0	Thank you, President. More than anyone I wish to recover the salvation of the citizenry, more than anyone else. Clearly we also want, want, a strengthened health system, clearly strengthened, strengthening mental health, which we have also presented here in his parliamentary office, which is the plan, with a strengthened primary care, we have also presented and tomorrow we will also present some elements relating to this primary care plan, but let us say it all very clearly, very clearly. This is an underfunded system, this is a chronic underfunded system. Two, getting out of the cove or the fact of normalizing the cove does not mean that we have no cove and that we are not having cove and does not mean above all that the sequels that leave us the cove – and before we have commented – are very and very important. Therefore, these assumptions or extraordinary money for the covid, or not covid, simply for the health system, and that is not only Catalonia, that is not only Catalonia, they are all territories, they are extraordinarily necessary; extraordinarily necessary if we really believe that salvation is a priority. If we really think we need a strong health system. And I invite you to come in and ask for this much-needed money, which I'm sure we will. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.75.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the night oci. [[Ask the government about the night oci]] [[310-00192/13]] The question is posed by Mr Juan Luis Ruiz of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.76.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, this diver, finally, will reopen the sector of the night oci, done that, obviously, we celebrate, right? Still, we'd like to know what the government's understanding of the situation in this sector is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.77.0	To answer, you have the word of Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.78.0	Thank you, president, and thank you, congressman, for all of you, from another gang, usual, huh? Indeed, it will be possible to re-open the night before the closing of the time lock that was to be decreed for the last day of the covid. So, I mean discos, music bars, and concert halls can open without any expansion restrictions and with the schedule they already had before the pandemic. And, actually, that's pretty good news, huh? , that's good news that also demonstrates this government's commitment not to extend the restrictive measures a day longer than necessary. Measures which, indeed, if in some sector they have impacted intensely is in the case of the night oci, perhaps the most, surely the most. Measures that, for another group, must also be said, have contributed to making the scenes not much worse than they have been. But we must accompany the sector, and we have actually done so with direct help. We have five direct aid calls that, in addition to all, add up to EUR 60 million. The last one, which is in these moments on the march, which was published the 25th generation, endowed with 20_million euros in aid to negotiations that go between fifteen_million euros and 120,000 euros, depending on the expansion and the name of workers and workers that each of these establishments have, because we do not want to leave anyone behind. Therefore, we help and we are the territory that the most direct aid has made to the sectors most affected by the covid, especially to the sector of the night oci. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.79.0	To answer the question, has the word Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.80.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. More than six hundred closed days, more than twenty months – we've been talking about it now, haven't we? – and finally, so you'll be able to re-open this sector, won't you? ; €6,500 million of losses, irreparable damages, loss of human capital, human, investments that will not be recovered and with a loss of competitiveness and prestige of the very important sector. So much so – and you know it – that there are many difficulties in being able to contract with national and international artists for the uncertainty that has arisen during all these months, right? A sector that needs urgent help – you didn't just talk. The government has compromised that if they close the guarantee you will help enough; we believe it has not been so. A sector that has not yet rejected any help for what it does to the five-day-old who closed the year between July and October, right? And I remind you that we have rejected the Government of Spain some 5,400_million euros in covid funds between 2020 and 2021 plus the 993_million euros in aid to companies. Therefore, it will not be for lack of resources. We, Mr Councillor, ask you to push a work table with the sector to develop a shoc plan, a shoc plan with urgent measures to ensure its short-term economic viability, but also with proposals to regain the very bad confidence and image that has been generated during all these past months. Before that, the sector has lost competitiveness in respect of other territories both from the State and from outside the State. And this happens to try to ensure, as other autonomous communities already do, that it will not close the night octopus again. And, therefore, the case has come up, that we hope not, that we hope that it will not be, but, if necessary, that we can agree and agree with the restrictive measures sector that do not pass through the total closure. Other communities are doing it, Mr. Counselor, at least try it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.81.0	To answer, has the word Business and Work Counsellor
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.82.0	Thank you, Congressman. You reminded me of transfers, I would like to remind you that Catalonia is the territory of the State which, with a difference, with a lot of difference, has done more help to the sectors most affected by the crisis of the covid: 230_euros per person, in a median of eighty_euros per person to the rest of the State. Therefore, it has been a very important effort, an effort that is in line with the effort that the sectors have actually made. It's been a very hard situation, it's a very hard situation, and that's why we've made this presuppositional effort, a great effort taking into account the migrations we have, which are from an autonomous government in a centralist state of experience. And we've done everything that's been in our hands and we'll keep doing it, so we don't leave anyone behind. And we are in direct contact with the sector, not just that of the night octurnal – especially that of the night octurnal – but all the sectors affected by this situation. I repeat, the effort was very important not to leave anyone behind. We don't want anyone on the sidelines. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.83.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the increase in the price of motorway tolls]] [[317-00107/13]] The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.84.0	Thank you, President. Why have the tolls of the Generalitat highways increased by 5.4? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.85.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.86.0	Thank you very much, President. Agreed to the concession contract.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.87.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.88.0	Thank you, President. At the beginning of 2018, the then minister of Fomento Íñigo De la Serna, announced the non-renewal of the concession of the highways of state ownership, that is, the AP-2 i the AP-7 became free in Catalonia. Surprisingly, the current Government of Spain has maintained this decision – it must be the only good thing they have done throughout the legislature. And in the meantime, what has the Generalitat done with the tolls of its highways? For they have risen a 5.4, turning the C-32 into the most expensive in Europe. And now we are being told to approach the debate rationally, analyze mobility, sustainability, the famous vineyard. And I could even give you the reason: this is a complex matter that needs to be addressed rationally, but it is that you ask rationality themselves, you, who pushed the infamous campaign« Catalunya without tolls, I do not want to pay, in which you even took pictures jumping if the barriers as vulgar quartets, that even Curro Jiménez and the Algarrobo had more class in the assaults than you. [[Rialles.]] And that is the summary of their process, populism of the lowest stuff, stir the lowest passions against the rest of the Spaniards, while here they go up tolls, taxes and taxes with which they continue to live as kings, which is for what they set up the process, not to achieve an independence from Catalonia, who well know that it is impossible, but to live as Maharajas at the cost of that utopian idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.89.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.90.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I had so many things to say that he had a minute left. [[Rialles.]] I will try..., because I have many things to say to him and to answer him; so, probably, I will exhaust all the time. Let's go to the rearrangement of things. Why did Catalonia have mobility systems, especially highways, with tolls, and not in the rest of the State? For lack of public investment. In Catalonia, motorways have had to finance tolls for the state's historic lack of investment in mobility. [[Greetings.]] And that's a palm tree reality. Keep going. You said: "The minister of PP Íñigo de la Serna announced that he would not renew the concessions. The same one that this government has done, not renew the concessions that reach its fi, that reach its fi. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Then, you... calm down, it doesn't happen; I'm talking... well, listen to him and say a lot of barbarity, you, and I don't just move my arms like you do. So we did the same thing. Next. He says: "Now they come with the winery. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, not now – not now –; since 2011-2012, this Parliament has approved proposals for a resolution at a time when there is an instrument, such as the Eurovignette at the moment – now in the words ‘vinyeta, it is the same, as I would like to say to you – in order to find out how mobility can be financed, how it can be financed the infrastructures of high-capacity lives, in Catalonia and the rest of the State. Certainly, measures that you have systematically voted against in this Parliament. So that your votes against do not mean that we have proposed them now; we have been debating them for a long time. So, a little bit of rigour. And then, finally, if you want to solve mobility issues, that's a clear bet for public transport. And the reality is that while you have been able to make decisions to the state government, you have reduced the contributions to metropolitan transport authorities, because you are not interested in public transport – they are not interested in them. And if not, I refer to the words that the Honorary President of his party, José María Aznar, says respect for mobility and as he is to lead. Therefore, look, Mr. Deputy, go to the party – go to the party – and apply it to the receipt that you receive from us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.91.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the criteria for the payment of travel expenses of the Department of Foreign Affairs]] [[317-00105/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.92.0	Mr President, what is the Government's approach to travel expenses in the Department of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.94.0	Just like the rest of the departments. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.96.0	I mean, a disastrous criterion. Judging from the data we have obtained, we have serious doubts that the criterion for spending money on external action is the general interest and promotion of Catalan companies, the Catalan economy and culture. Look, you'll tell me how you favor these two examples. First, travel to Switzerland from 22 to 24 November 2021, just three months ago. You go with mayors on your rope to talk about territorial imbalances, you spend tens of thousands of euros, of which eight_ thousand_euros will stop at a Swiss foundation for the sustainable development of mountain regions. Tell me what the Catalan economy or culture was promoted on that trip. Tell me what the mayors painted there, with bread and knife, on that trip. Tell me which institution you met with... which Swiss institution you met with, Mr. Aragonès? Because the impression it gives us is that this trip does not fit the department's skills; the impression it gives is that you take your acolyte mayors to reward those with little trips to eat and sleep, and you receive no one. And, second example, trips to see Puigdemont. In the Department of Foreign Action, in September and October 2021, twelve thousand euros were spent to go see Mr Puigdemont, and you traveled on the 18th of the VI of 2021 for three thousand euros to see Mr Puigdemont. What general interest is defended by going to see and spending taxpayers' money to go to see Mr Puigdemont? I expect you to go to Lombardy, to the Veneto, to Bavaria..., to Bavaria, I'm sorry. [[remorse of the voice]] , and to meet with regional leaders and companies..., to promote Catalan companies and our culture and tourism. And I also expect you to see the former presidents, to meet with Mas or Montilla in Barcelona, but with the fugitive? Paying money? Well, look, tell that gentleman who led a coup and ran away, that if he wants to meet you on the phone or by Zoom, or come over, and we'll be alerted to notify the police. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.98.0	Thank you, President. They've got a lot of smoke, you guys, in Castella and Lleó, to make this show, huh? They've got a lot of smoke, huh? [[Greetings.]] Because... it's like, well, we haven't worked very well this month, and we're trying to find that, the great hits from last season. [[Rialles.]] But, Mr. Carrizosa, where are the problems that interest the people? [[Give me the applause.]] Where are the fears that interest the people, at a time when they worry about inequalities, at a time when, despite the reduction of the weather, the long-lasting weather is chronicled? Or the climate change reptiles. You see that... you've already said that there are four cats in the Pyrenees, which proves, as you see the city of Catalonia more than a hundred miles to the roundabout. [[Greetings.]] First thing. Now it turns out that addressing depopulation issues is good for Castella and Lleó but it is not good for Catalonia and it is not good for international cooperation. Okay. The second thing you've been showing today is that you haven't worked very well. And thirdly, when you don't have any questions to bring in, when you don't have any plans, when you don't..., you don't really have any proposals to improve people's lives, so let's go and look here at the expenses of External Action. External Action expenses are expenses, first, which you have agreed to because we are a transparent government and explain what we do, first thing. And you can already laugh, but you have made use of the parliamentary system to be able to access it. So, well, he's still laughing. Secondly, all external action activities are a fan of competitions. And thirdly, this government will travel to Brussels the times it takes to interact with the European institutions, which is fundamental; to interact with the Members of the European Parliament, too, and, yes, also – for, when it convinces – and I believe it is appropriate and necessary – to maintain relations with all the representatives of the Generality of Catalonia, also those who cannot come to Catalonia for the repression that you have instigated and that is obviously one of the main obstacles to resolving the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, yes, we go to see everyone the times you need, because we are willing to talk to everyone, especially if they have been presidents of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the statements of the President of the Parliament in which the accusation of not throwing forward a strategy of collective disobedience in front of repression]] [[317-00108/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.100.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, what do you think deserves the accusations of the President of Parliament, Mrs Laura Borràs, to asses him to you as one of those responsible for not throwing forward, and quotes textually, a strategy of collective disobedience before repression? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.102.0	Miri, about this issue I've tried to censure myself to what my institutional role is. I, as the most representative of the institutional structure of the Generalitat de Catalunya, also soc the most responsible of the Government. And the government respects the task carried out by the parliamentary bodies, the plenary, the Bureau, especially in which are questions of order of organization and functioning of the Parliament. So, here's a division of powers. What I'm going to do is continue to denounce... because, in the end, we've been emboldening ourselves with these controversial and debated behind us, but this still has its origin. And the origin of the tea in two parts. The first is that a deputy is disabled for his performance when he was a registrar simply because he kept in the window of his office – that if you go in front of the country you have to look up to see exactly where he is – which was a groceries in an electoral campaign in which he did not present himself. And the second is that even if you think that this would be disobedience... it is absolutely disproportionate that, by a feeling that it is not firm and by a measure of inability of a few months, it is not only possible to lose it, therefore, to listen to it throughout a legislature, but also to all that is lost by order of the election board before that feeling is firm. This violates the right to effective judicial protection, it goes against all principles of civil and political rights. And, therefore, we have to work to reverse this situation. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.103.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.104.0	Thank you, President. In the fight against repression they will always find us, but I must tell you, therefore, that the silence of these days... – thank you –, that the silence of these days is not prudence and is not an institutional role, is to try to store under the guise some problems and a reality that are already seen all Catalonia and that, unfortunately, is not new in Catalonia. I also have to say, since the beginning of 2022 we have seen, from one side, an erratic Republican Left, but what concerns us most, too, is a presidency of the Generality and a government that is "unnoticed and in retreat. And I'll give you some examples. I'll start with the Winter Olympics. We're talking about a new macro project that, in line with what happened with the expansion of Prat airport, so it's already failed. But then we move on to the renovation, to the change at the top of the Squadron Mosses, which, if it's not a purge, is assembled very much, and, moreover, without convincing explanations. In the third place, you have converted the balance of a year of government, therefore, into a conference that is intended for the independence parties. And the show of these last few days was already missing, so we're seeing, in the end, that they're trying to store what the whole city knows, and it's that it's been lied to with a supposed disobedience that we haven't seen in the end. And what's the consequence? The consequence is that we have, in one band, therefore, institutions that are each time more degraded and, on the other, a city that is stunned by the sound and paralysis and inaction of its government. And that is why, President, we ask you to rectify. You and I will have a meeting next week and I'll tell you privately the same thing I'm saying to you today, here and now, and in public, and it's to rectify the direction of your government and to return to the great consensus of the country. And one such consensus is an agreement for the new funding system, which Catalonia needs as water. We've been insisting on it for many weeks now, and now we're giving it to her: the pilot is in her tent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.106.0	Thank you very much, President. I see that you, Congresswoman, already know the content of the conference that I'm going to do the next one, and you've already advanced it. I recommend you come, you're invited, and I'm listening. And that I listen to the proposals because precisely the great country consensuss will be very present; country consensuss that have an objective difficulty, many times, to be able to last, which is the inability of the Spanish State to give it an answer. And so here too we can find solutions to this obvious political conflict, which is historic and that in the past few years has been very hard, and that we, many times, on my bet, too, to find a resolution to this political conflict, we find few complicity on the part of the state government. Anyway, this is a government that's clear on what to do. And you mentioned... we're in favor of the Winter Olympics if they're sustainable. I think you must be the same as the director of the Barcelona Assembly Sports, who attends technical meetings. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality whether he will focus all his efforts on the organisation of the 2030 Winter Olympics in the Pyrenees.]] [[317-00110/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Basha Change, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.108.0	Thank you, President. President, in this almost one year of parliamentary term we saw how his government was announcing a green and feminist revolution, but he focused all his efforts on launching macro-projects like the Olympic Games, the expansion of the airport, Formula 1 or Hard Rock; very fast to push these macro-projects that contrasts completely with the slowness to boost public energy, with the lack of defence to the right to housing or with the total incapacity to reverse the privatisations of 061 and 112. In this sense, we want to ask you, Mr President: in the next year will you continue to focus so much effort on convincing us of the need to boost Olympic games in the Pyrenees?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.110.0	Thank you, President. What we will do is to complete with what this Parliament agreed, which is to consult on this proposal, and we will work for the best proposal, because I really believe that it is an opportunity, if we do, as we are working, as we are doing, so that it is, as a sustainability clause, that it can contribute to territorial diversification and with a model that is not only to leave a fifteen-day arrival, but that, in the framework of a strategy of territorial development in the Pyrenees, it will provide new opportunities for territories that are to be escorted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.111.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.112.0	Look, President, what you say in your Parliament and to the press wheels contrasts frontally with the reality of your policies, which we do not share and which we will actively oppose, because we do not share the main projects for which your Government is betting, such as the Olympic Games, the expansion of the largest airport or casino in Europe, nor do we share anti-social policies such as the privatisation of sanitation and the non-existent housing policies, nor do we share, by any means, the act of resignation towards the State of normalization of repression, of violation of social rights and, ultimately, of the systemic suspension of our sovereignty. And more so when in a few months we have found that "the table of monologue, forgiveness, dialog, has no chance of succeeding in the democratic resolution of the conflict, because it turns out that the State does not have the will to accept a referendum nor does it have the will to stop the repression. And, in addition, now there is no pressure or incentive on the part of the Government of Catalonia. Mr. Aragones, there's not enough words and statements. They're doing it and they're doing it, and we don't see them for the place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.114.0	Thank you very much, President. This is a government that clearly bets on these transformations. In the social sphere, for example, I'm making P2 free – we've been happy to keep them at our side – so I'm going to lower the rates to twenty students to P3 from the very beginning of September. We were pleased that at the time of approval of the presuppositions at the side too. Or, for example, in the momentum of the switch to renewables, which we know will inevitably lead to some change in our landscape, but that it is absolutely necessary to face it in order not to depend on nuclear energy or on energy produced outside Catalonia, which, if we only depend on this, will fill the country of MATs, which we do not want. Therefore, there are no decisions that have no costs, all have them. What we have to do is look at what are the lowest costs for the city council. And that's why we bet, in the energy field, for the clear development of renewable energies through consensus, through a decree that has allowed – that has allowed – that can be much more involved and give much more viewing to the municipality. And, obviously, we are also continuing to bet, in the democratic sphere, on the peaceful resolution of conflicts and the democratic resolution. And we will never get up from a table in which there is negotiation – we will never get up –, be firm. [[Widow's remorse.]] We ask for mobilization, we ask for follow-up and we ask, therefore, that we win and that unit of action is the basis on which I act the independence movement. For all this we need tools and... – we need tools; and they are supposed, they are decisions in this Parliament at the time to pull forward. Presumed as, for example, those we already have in place, which is the most important reversal of the Catalonian Government's history in the field of housing. The habitating game is the highest. And we didn't have them on our side. I will not lower my arms at the time of work because you are a member of these transformations and actions, which are absolutely positive for the country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.115.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the distribution of Generalitat posts]] [[317-00112/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.116.0	Mr Aragonès, how long will they continue to distribute their cargoes while the Catalans are absolutely abandoned? And I'd appreciate it if you'd turn around and show some education this time. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.117.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.118.0	Thank you very much. I want to remind all Members of Parliament that in a democracy, except when the Electoral Board goes beyond its functions, the people are taught by the citizens. Maybe it's not that they don't like the charges, it's that some don't like democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.119.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.120.0	Thank you, President. It has demonstrated, once again, its lack of education and indecency. Mr Aragonès, there is a custom in this unwritten chamber and it is that the separatist leaders – you – and the socialists, come out to the rostrum and claim to defend permanently the interests of the workers, a routine of lies and deceptions from which the Catalans are perfectly aware and of which only a couple of data are sufficient to finish dismantling the. Xevi Xirgo, proposed by Junts, EUR 118,000 per year. Rosa Maria Molló, proposed by the PSC, EUR 114,000 per year. Miquel Miralles, proposed by Esquerra Republicana, EUR 114,000 per year. Laura Pinyol, proposed by Esquerra Republicana, 114,000_euros per year. Enric Casas, proposed by the PSC, EUR 114,000 per year. Five names, and those missing; five charges, and those remaining, Mr. Aragonès. And more than five hundred thousand euros spent, and those that will come. I have only cited members of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. I could quote the members of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, the Union of Accounts and a longet cetera. All to place his friends, to return political favors and to perpetuate this ever deeper division between the separatist elites and the reality of the current Catalans. Just two weeks ago – I hope you know – we knew that three of every ten Catalans are at risk of exclusion. Last week, the National Police detained three people and dismantled a jihadist funding cell. And what have you and the left done? To distribute seats, sit down and distribute funds to all Catalans through this long list of own taxes, instead of devoting them to improving quality public services and dealing with the serious social emergencies they suffer. Mr Aragonès, we don't need a Catalan audiovisual media corporation. We don't need an audiovisual council in Catalonia with millions of salaries. We do not need or want a public television that squanders tens and tens of millions of euros. We do not need or want biographers from Puigdemont controlling the performance of the public media. In short, we do not need either their plugs or their Tertullians. We really need help for Catalans who are going through a bad time, support for families and security, once and for all, in our neighbourhoods. We demand, once and for all, Mr. Aragonès, services... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.121.0	Time's up, Mr. Garriga. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.122.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, it has to be said that there are things that seem to be improving, and it is that the intervention today of the representative of the extreme right, unlike what he did to the European Parliament as a member of his group, has not been surrounded by alcohol blisters. [[Rialles. Some applause.]] In any case, the message isn't that different. The message doesn't change very much, because the message that uses the extreme right is to attack democratic institutions – attack democratic institutions – bulging with a defense of the rights of the citizenry. And that's what made the far right of the story. That's what Italian fascism did, that's what National Socialism did in Germany, that's what phalangism and the extreme right of Spain did in the thirties. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, attack democratic institutions to impose their particular social model. Today we've come back to find an exhibition, this one. But while this speech is trying to put all democrats on the table, supposedly from an elite who robs most of us, the facts are the facts. And the facts are that when this chamber adopts measures to promote the maintenance of housing for the most vulnerable families, the extreme right to vote against it systematically. The reality is that when this chamber adopts measures to achieve that the collections that have been marginalized from the spheres of power of society, therefore, measures in a gender equality clause, measures to give recognition to the diversity of origins of our country, measures to regulate administratively all the citizens of Catalonia, also those that an unfair foreign law deprives them of papers, and that in addition they are all the majority in this country... when this chamber leads to approval of measures in favour of this, the extreme right votes against it. Because the extreme right is trying to trick the vulnerable into perpetuating an economic system that continues to exploit them, and that's what we'll always have before and in defense of democracy. You'd want to lock up no TV3, you'd want to lock up this Parliament. And I assure you they didn't get mixed up. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.123.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the alternative to the table of dialogue with the Government of the State and the constitution of a strategic direction collegiated with independence to coordinate future actions]] [[317-00111/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.124.0	Thank you, President. President, members of the Government, deputies, deputies. President, we would like to thank you from Junts for Catalonia for meeting you that we have kept for a while in Palau. We share with you the need to agree with parties and independent entities on where we are and above all as we move forward, because now we have a year of elections and a very clear mandate: fifty-two per cent of the citizenry said yes to independence, said yes to a free, well-being, progress and opportunity country, said yes to a country where you can live fully in català. This is the people's will and we have to compliment them. Now, independence in its conjunction cannot be proud of how we are acting collectively. We are not in a position to deal with repression in a coordinated manner and we are not taking steps towards progressing towards independence. It is obvious that the bet for the table of the dialog is not working; it is a way that does not carry, as yesterday expressed the spokesman of the Spanish Government: Pedro Sánchez does not want to reassemble or negotiate, does not want to hear about amnesty or self-determination, has no interest in resolving a political conflict. As we have already expressed at the last control session, we fully agree with you, President, that we need to work on an alternative to the dial table. We're 100_per_cent in agreement. We have to do it together, with unity, with complicity. That's why Together for Catalonia, and so we moved it to the meeting of dilluns, we think that it is necessary to constitute a strategic direction, colegated from independence as soon as possible, as it appears to the agreement that facilitated the investiture and that facilitates this legislature between Junts and Esquerra Republicana. A shared area of analysis, political decision-making between parties and entities to design and plan the steps to move towards independence, but also to coordinate actions to address repression. We strengthen the independence front with all strength, regain the morale of victory and take the initiative again. And in this sense, president, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, I also appreciate the conversation and meeting you that we had this afternoon. I think it was profitable. And it's obvious we've got a lot of faces ahead of us. But I'd like to share a reflection with you and the whole chamber. Political movements advance when, above all, they speak more of the country than of itself. And the movement we share, the independence movement, has to talk more about the country than it does about itself. They clearly recognize the challenges and the impact of repression and the response of the State before the October U referendum and all that came after it. And remembering always that there is a repression that continues in the form of exile, but also in the form, also, of open and pending causes and also in the form of incapacitations as we have seen this past week. But the key to the whole fold, and so I wanted to share it with you for a while, and I think it must be the message that we should all try to share, try to internalize in the measure that each of us wants in the next few months, is that we move forward if we talk about the country, move forward if we once again explain the reasons that lead us to jointly defend why we want the independence of Catalonia. Because in this country there is great consensus, consensus that in this Parliament is shared more than independence, such as the defense of a state of strong welfare, such as the defense of Catalan language as the structural element of our country's social cohesion, such as the defense of an open Catalonia to the world that you see fit and that can defend the interests of the country, of a productive economy with a green and digital reindustrialisation, precisely at these times of so much change and, obviously, of a Catalonia that is to be a cohesioned Catalonia as a people's sun. These consensuses have always reached before the state wall. That's why we're independent, too. And, therefore, it is imperative that we return to the country's conjunct. I think that's the way it's going to win. They are aware of the difficulties. And we have to do this by addressing the country's side, because in the end our cause, which is the cause of independence, like all the causes in favor of the better living conditions of the people, they feel if they serve because the people who live here are better. And I think you have every sense of defending Catalonia's independence because the people are better at it, but above all we are headed to the country's side. And I apply to myself the recipe: less talk about us and more talk about the country. I think if we do this, we move forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.127.0	Time's up, President. [[Greetings.]] Before giving the word to the own Member, we are informed by several Members that after the President of the Generality's reply to Mr Ignacio Garriga, he felt an absolutely intolerable insult to his person. I want to give the opportunity to the person who offered them to apologize publicly and, if not, ask everyone if you please remember the duty of compliment and respect for the President of the Generality and for all Members of the House. [[Greetings. Mr. Ignacio Garriga asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.128.0	No, I'd appreciate it if you'd show up unhappily, too, or infer that the president of the generality has... I mean, with polite words, not to be like him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.129.0	Mr. Garriga, forgive me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.130.0	... insulting a parliamentary group saying it's like a Nazi group. I think this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.131.0	Mr Garriga, I have only asked that the person who had uttered insults that are unacceptable to the President of the Generality removed them, if he had the courage to do so, because we have been informed by various Members of various parliamentary groups. Yeah. [[Antonio Gallego Burgos asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.132.0	I apologize for the insult, indeed, but you must understand, and you must first understand that it is not normal for the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia in every session of control to accuse us of Nazis... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.133.0	Mr. Gallego... Mr. Gallego. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Gallego, please. Mr. Gallego, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, not forgiveness, no. Please, I asked him... I told him, and now you're up and so you're responsible for the insult, which you apologize for an insult that's unacceptable. He's done it, and he's done it. Insults are not acceptable in this Parliament and our Rules allow expulsion for an insult of this nature. I asked him to take it off. You take it off. Abstain from commenting that they justify the insult that is unacceptable, please. I put 'em on the mask. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] There you go, Mr. Gallego. It's here. I asked him to remove an insult and remove it. There is no further explanation to an insult that is unacceptable. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You don't have the word. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mr. Gallego, you don't have the word. What he does is justify an insult, so he doesn't have the word. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to move forward in national and social terms]] [[317-00106/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.134.0	Thank you very much, President, also for your firmness. President, I'll start as it ended fifteen days ago. It is close to the Presidency of the Generality to lead the independentist strategy by weaving, yes, all the necessary complicitys. This week's round of contacts has to be used to put a thread to the needle to an independence that has seen the trusts broken and that has not managed to weave enough alliances either inside or outside. And it's up to us to come up with a real, winning and viable proposal. Along with empty proposals and symbolic gesticulations, we can go back into a space that allows us to advance towards the shared objective: the Catalan Republic. Because, despite all that some have said, the object as follows is exactly the same: the amnesty to be the general cause and the self-determination reference are the tools we must hold to a democratic resolution of a political conflict. And these are two of the biggest consensuses in our society. In the same way that it is a stable consensus for the country to resolve conflicts such as dialogue and negotiation, but also with firmness and determination. Even though it costs. This is the language that everyone understands, also the international community to whom we often call as a guarantee to resolve the democratic conflict. Negotiate without giving up anything, absolutely nothing; with the tenacity and conviction that gives legitimacy to our proposals; taking on – and we know – risks and personal costs. And we need the strength of the country, not just the strength of the parties. The strength of the country to move forward in agreement with these great consensuses. The Presidency has the responsibility to make possible all the consensus of society, on the margins of tactics and political wear. To lead, President, in fact, with real achievements, both the resolution of the political conflict and the outcome of the crisis and the construction of a fairer society. It is to say, also, to shield universal access to public services of quality, the language, the model of Catalan school or access to a decent habitat. And we're at the end of the street, President. Because that's what we've always said: national liberation and social justice are two cares of the same coin. Independence is stronger when you're serving the whole country. When it's helpful to everyone, because there's no country without a decent life. And that is why, President, at the door of this February 14, we ask him what measures he wants to push his government from that point forward in national and social terms? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.136.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, in the first place, we need to look at the actions we have. And I think this should put it very much in value. We have the actions of a majority of the electorate, in votes, for the first time in history. Independence, with the highest turnout and at the lowest turnout, has been revalidating majority parliaments, which, in the elections a year ago, have also translated into a majority that exceeds fifty_percent of the votes of the citizenry that participated in the elections. This is a very important act. The action is also all the way back, with successes and also with those areas where there is still way to get victories. With the successes as the U of October was, as were the great mobilizations. And these great mobilizations have been possible because they gather the hopes of the model of country that we want to build, which is this model of country that, as I said before, generates broad consensuss also beyond independence. The question we have to ask ourselves is: to this model of a country based on social justice, on social cohesion also around the Catalan language as one of the elements of identity, progress, equality of opportunity in our country, to this consensus based on a productive economy to the service of workers, of shared prosperity with enterprises, of territorial balance, to this consensus in which we have to have our own Europe in the great debates and in the great folds that we have shared with the rest of the continent, to this consensus in which we have to be the ones who manage, receive the taxes that the citizens of Catalonia pay in order to finance properly from health to the realm of social rights, to this consensus that we have to be the ones who manage, to receive the taxes that the citizens of Catalonia pay, to finance properly from health to the rest of the continent? And in this answer, we find it right to want Catalonia's independence. And so let's get back to these questions, and from here, my bet is clear. The bet is a dialogue and a negotiation with the state government based on democracy and repression. Our proposal has always been very clear. We have always been very transparent, but it must be that the other side of the table also has not only a clear and transparent answer, but only a will – a will – to participate in the resolution of the political conflict, because chronification is not a solution; it is only to let the time pass because everything becomes much worse, and here we will not be found. Therefore, unity of action, generosity and all ambition to achieve a future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.137.0	President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.138.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.139.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]] He asked the President of the General Council to reply to the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether he is in favour of Catalonia and Aragó jointly organizing the Winter Olympic Games of 2030 in Pirineu]] [[317-00109/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.140.0	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás. Mr. Aragonès, I would like to thank you for the invitation you gave me to attend the conference that you will be holding on February 14th, coinciding with the first anniversary of the elections that, under my point of view, opened a new time in Catalonia. The announcement that I will come to listen to you, representing the first group of this chamber, that I will do it with interest, and that I will fix myself especially on those points that can raise great country agreements, because Catalonia must look forward. Agreed that they think of all Catalans and Catalans, that these days, of course, we have unfortunately witnessed a succession of political misproposals in this chamber, which among all of us should propose never to repeat again. It's a lot of party bars. Let's turn full, let's look forward, let's think about the common good. For example, and I quote a very concrete question, I hope that from the conference of dilluns we will come out with a clear answer to the question that I am following, Mr Aragonès: is it in favour of the Pyrenees of Catalonia and Aragó, together, Barcelona and Zaragoza, apostin to do the Winter Olympics in 2030? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.142.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Illa, very pleased that this dilluns can attend the conference. I'm convinced it'll be of your interest. I don't know if he's going to like everything I say, but anyway, I think it's positive, so I'm going to be there, and I can't wait to get the answer. The Government of Catalonia bets that Olympic Games will be held in the Pyrenees in 2030. Some Olympic Games that we also, with the conversations we have had with the Olympic Committee as much of the State as the International Olympic Committee, must be a model of sustainable games. You don't have to build infrastructure that will then be in disuse. He doesn't have to go with us, and, in fact, if he doesn't, we would totally reject him for urban speculation. It has to serve an estimum to move forward safely in many mobility infrastructures, which are also necessary, and that if at last, then..., we do not want to, but if at last there are no Games, they would have to do the same. So we're betting on this model. Does this model have to do only Catalonia? Do these Olympic Games have to be done only in Catalonia? No, no, Since the first moment we have been open to being able to participate with other territories. Always, obviously, taking into account not only the trajectory of all this work of candidacy, that does not begin now, but that it sees from a few years ago, but also from whom it can gather the evidences of a window of technology, of analysis. When we talk about leadership we want to say this, because we are convinced that Catalonia has the actions to be able to lead a very strong proposal in this area. We have been open to everything, and therefore, in this sense, open to other territories to participate in it. I will always defend, as President of Catalonia, that Catalonia gathers all the characteristics so that most of the evidence is celebrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.143.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.144.0	And go from there, which was proposed by my companion and friend Jordi Hereu, as the mayor of Barcelona. Catalonia can't let more opportunities slip. Don't let it happen to the Olympic Games that happened to us with the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - El Prat, of which we certainly don't have to keep talking, don't we? And we keep in mind that doing it together with our friends and Aragó's coming sum, help. I'm glad you see it this way, too. I support him, all the support of my group, of the group I represent, to work folded and to make it possible for the year 2030 the Pyrenees to be the scene of the Winter Olympics. I support you, the entire government, and Vice President Puigneró. "I see no more than opportunities," said Mr. Puignero in a recent interview, "I agree. We're working folds. Catalunya must look forward. Too much to fix the view in the rearview mirror and too much to create problems where there is no. Catalonia must be once again a land of opportunity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.146.0	Thank you, President. I also believe that it is necessary to overcome speeches of a supposed economic decline in Catalonia that do not stand up for themselves. Later in the year, Catalan GDP grew by 5.9_per_cent; the state average by five_per_cent. The end of the year was of the thirteen_per_cent in the conjunction of the State; of the 10,16_per_cent in Catalonia. We already have a 7.7_per_cent more exports, not that year 2021 respects 20, which was a year affected by the pandemic, but compared to 2019. We're back to getting over the history. Therefore, you say: "We abandon determined.... I ask you to abandon certain discourses based on an economic decay that is not real.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.147.0	President... thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights]] [[202-00014/13]] After the control session, we proceed to the second point of order, the debate of totality on the proposal of the law of creation of the Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights. As you know, it is a legislative initiative that has been presented by various parliamentary groups, the Socialists and Units Group for Progress, the Parliamentary Group for Republican Left, Junts for Catalonia, the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning and In Common We Can. In order to present this legislative initiative, the five proposing groups will first intervene for a maximum of two minutes per group. There is the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.148.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputy, deputies... "Between the fort and the fever, between the rich and the poor, it is the freedom that oppresses and the law that liberates. This was said by Catholic preacher Henri Lacordaire in 1848, in a famous sermon to Notre-Dame, one of the considered pioneers of social Christianity or liberal Catholicism. And I think it's a reflection that he still has to see with the debat we're wearing today. Another way perhaps more modern or simpler to say is that freedom without rules is always the freedom of the strongest. And in the same way that it is true – it can be said and I believe that the history of the construction of the European Union so validates it – that trade is a strong disincentive to armed conflicts, wars, the same way that foreign investments make it possible for social, economic and human development in those places that are receiving these investments, the same way that all this is true, it is also true that when this is produced in relation to inequality, when it is produced in contexts where there are weak institutional systems or weakened by conflict, there can be heavy violations of human rights, of one band; of the international law of work, of the other; of the rules of the international industry or of the international industry. It is for all this, and not for anything else, that there is a regulatory framework at the international and also European level. The instruments for developing the International Declaration of Human Rights are clearly known. They are also known – although not so often, let's say, respected or developed – the norms of the international right to work, also in environmental matters, also in matters of promotion of pau or sustainable human development. In fact, there should be respect for the guiding principles of the United Nations on business and human rights, and there is a debate in which, of course, several Member States of the European Union have been at the forefront of these debates, but not only, also Ecuador, especially since 2013..., a debate on the establishment of an international treaty on business and human rights that has a binding character. Obviously, this treaty, which is in negotiations, and which a delegation of the European Union is involved in these negotiations, and which, of course, the European Parliament has given support on multiple occasions, this treaty has not yet sunk and, therefore, there are no rules that remain binding in terms of enterprise and human rights from this treaty. Still, as I said, there are regulations. Also in the European sphere. For example, Directive 2014/95, which imposes obligations on companies to ensure that they comply, among others, with human rights standards. Also the most recent regulations on the import of certain minerals, in concrete four, much needed for certain industries of the knowledge society, which are in force since the generation of 2021. And, as I said, the European Parliament has been an implacable advocate for this regulation of trade and investment in order to respect human rights. If you want some examples of Member States, then France has provisions in its internal order in this matter, obligations respect its big companies, right? , in matter, let's say, that they believe this diligence, this compliment with these standards. And Denmark has also regulated, in this case, child labour, because unfortunately we are all aware that there have been large transnational companies that have been accused, and have often been credited, that child labour has been used in the manufacture of their products. We also have precedents in our Parliament. The initiative that we have here today has several groups ahead of us in this Parliament. In the first place, there was a compromise of many parliamentary and government groups that took over the year 2016 the task of creating a Catalan business centre and human rights – 2016, six years ago, of this. Therefore, we are here, in part, as a finding of a weakness: the governments that since 2016 until now have kept at least their commitment to create this Catalan business centre and human rights have not done so, and it is well known that the pilot of the Department of External Action with the Department of Economics and vice versa has passed. But, despite everything, at the parliamentary level there was a resolution adopted unanimously – unanimous from all the groups present in the chamber – the year 2016, which is committed to this creation of the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. 2019 was repeated with another resolution and 2021 was repeated with another resolution. And finally, we have the proposition of the law that you are here for your totality debate, that is, to say, to see if we continue with its legislative process. It is proposed by the Socialist and Unit groups to advance, the Republican Left Group, the Junt Group, the CUP Group - Constituent Creed and the Common Group We can. Each one will obviously defend its own arguments. From the point of view of the contents, it is a relatively simple bill, in which it is created, as I say, this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights as a public body, endowed with its own and independent legal personality; independent of both the government and private agents, or even of the non-governmental organizations working in the field of development cooperation. It's like studying, evaluating, controlling, and regulatory innovation in the subject matter that your own title refers to, isn't it? , the relationship between companies, the performance of companies abroad and human rights. And how it works, very briefly, to prevent and alert them to activities that potentially violate human rights; to investigate complaints related to possible violations; to require, if necessary, documentation to companies, and the possibility of sanctioning companies if these requirements are not met. This, of course, will be one of the most discussed elements in the parliamentary procedure if, as the groups carrying out this proposal seem to indicate, their legislative procedure continues. Also, among the functions, to draw up proposals in the field of public procurement; to draw up instructions for the processes supporting the internationalization of enterprises; to advise and formulate proposals to the Parliament, the Government of the Generality; to draw up an annual report with recommendations, and the impetus for regulatory innovation. It is worth saying that from the point of view of our parliamentary group, it is probably necessary to introduce more into the text, which we also subscribe to and ask for its approval. Among other things, because the regulation of mechanisms through which complaints can be formulated, let's say, which has the title of this right to formulate complaints, or the appropriate sanctioning regime is contained neither more nor less than in the article that speaks of the functions of the center, and therefore probably it is good to separate this into articles that specifically develop these aspects and that do so in a way, therefore transparent, guarantee, etc. Because... I think that if we see some of the briffings that have emerged from the European Parliament in this matter, some of the phrases that encapsulate them in the introduction, I think they can inspire us, let's just say, in the general orientation that we should give him. Obviously, it would be unfair to attribute a systematic violation of human rights, labour rights or environmental rights or indigenous peoples to the joint venture of Catalan or even transnational enterprises. Obviously, it would be unfair to do so with a general character and, let's say, pulling for the big broc. But it would also be a lie to pretend to ignore the fact that these violations exist and that it is difficult to establish responsibilities for the way in which, above all, transnational enterprises use the most or least weak or different regulatory frameworks at the level of internal or international orders to avoid such responsibilities and to expel them from subcontractors or other actors. And, therefore, I believe that moving forward on the road – and I finish – is important to regulate. Probably out better still, for a question of scale and balance of power, because, effectively, these transnational enterprises have a lot, that advanced regulation in the European and international mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.149.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.150.0	Well, good morning. Good morning to the guests here, Lafede's people, who, in fact, if it wasn't for them today we wouldn't be discussing this bill. It's been those days, isn't it? the synergy and the work of the conscious citizenry, of the entities, of the movements that engage the institutions generate that we have debates that advance in the guarantee of rights, in transparency, in the indispensable coherence of the institutions. Because today, in fact, it is a debate that begins around the year 2014, in the framework of the debate of the foreign law, here in Parliament, where it begins to introduce into this debate, also the fruit of the work of Lafede entities, which is the coherence of policies in the foreign action of the Government of the Generality; the need to address this coherence of policies. And that's a result of this job, a coherence of policies you're looking for, too, isn't it? to analyse what is done by public and private external action, what companies do and how we also interact with companies in the public administration. In fact, the coherence of policies is one of the axes of the cooperation plan, of this cooperation that seems that this government does not have much on its priority, but public policy that has been practiced in this country for years and that can be exercised more and better. And if we look at some of Repsol's last examples in the last few years of action by companies to countries in the global south, we see, for example, Repsol's last threats to Peru – Repsol's ecological crimes to Peru – with its connection with guerrillas and paramilitaries. And we also see what the Generality's relationship is with Repsol here, Tarragona or various arrangements that exist. If we start evaluation processes, reports, analysis processes, analysis of what impacts they have and what relationship and what connection they end up with, we could discuss these public administration agreements on the basis of criteria for their actions. Or another example, in order not to focus solely on how the Generality is related to businesses: if we have a center... Or this center..., if we develop this center, we could also analyze what is the responsibility of this type of action of entities as untouchable in this country as the Barcelona Football Club. What relationship does the Barcelona Football Club have with Beko. And what's Beko? Because for everyone Beko is where he writes the Barcelona Football Club to his samarreta. But Beko is part of a Turkish business group, a corporation or the most powerful private corporation in Turkey, the only one on the Forbes list of the five-hundred largest companies in the world, but that is his contacts between many business and investment divisions, also to the arms industry; the arms industry that finances or collaborates..., that sees arms in the Erdogan regime, which, as we have already spoken here on more than one occasion, is dedicated to systematically violating the rights of the Kurdish people. And to be consistent with what we ourselves approved here a few months ago, which was the recognition of the North and East Administration of Syria, it would also be good if we could, right? , through this independent Business Centre and Human Rights, analyze these reports, also to identify contradictions and to put on the table that one of the most important entities that this country has – and untouchable – such as the Barcelona Football Club, if you want to take responsible action you could also discuss this sponsorship by this company. So, two examples they have: u, as the Generality is related to one of the most multinationals, which we know is complicated, but which has only recently had examples, right? , in the dressings to Peru ; and another, right? , which affects Catalonia's antonomisy club. Therefore, tools such as the Centre d'Empresa and Human Rights would make it possible to advance in this willingness to work together on policy coherence. Starting from the fact that absolute and pure coherence does not exist, but we believe that we need to walk and that we need to move forward here to ensure that the policies that are due to the end and the relationships that are established respect the fundamental rights, the human rights and the ecological rights of the people of the global south, that they have seen systematically, right? So the big multinationals have used their economic power to drive them out, to violate rights, to generate eco-cidalism. Therefore, for us, this step is important, they understand that it is a step of the many that must be taken to advance in the coherence of policies. A step that began the year 2014 and that, approving this law will not be completed, but we will have to move forward. And it's a step, at the same time, to regain trust and trust in the citizenry, isn't it? , who has years working on this and who, after disasters like Repsol, sees that the administrations don't just do anything, for example. Therefore, regaining that trust is key. But there is also another element that we believe is indispensable in Catalonia's foreign policy. Moving forward and working to be recognizable also goes through this. It also happens to be exemplary in this. It also goes on to regulate and to be an example of how we want to relate, also, to the global south. And how we want to move forward because it's guaranteeing your rights. And in this sense, in Geneva years ago, it has been understood that they are working in this sense and that they are systematically reporting violations of rights on the part of companies and working for this violation or for the complaint of this systemic violation of the rights of many of these companies. Therefore, that the Administration, that the Generality is placed on this side is also a way to advance in the recognition of Catalonia as the country, that it wants to be responsible internationally, that it wants to advance in an internationalism that passes for the guarantee and defense of the rights of all the peoples of the world. Therefore, we hope that, in addition, this process of this law will be followed by the minimum and indispensable changes, and that it will not be converted into a slow, daunting process, where the end result is a decafeinated centre that serves to rent our faces, but not to generate reports that provoke or advance in changing attitudes and to guarantee these rights that we have before. With all this, I quit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.151.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.152.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... So yes, I think today we could also talk about a historic day in the Parliament of Catalonia. A historic day as many as we've had, but I think this one has a special meaning, although we already had one of them in the past legislature. And it's a historic day because this House will be debating, finally, the creation of the Business Centre and Human Rights. And, obviously, it's a historic day that up late, as some Members have already commented, because we've been trying since 2016..., because it's supposed to be a topic of these great consensuss, right? As far as the president is concerned, there seems to be a great deal of consensus on the part of the different political groups to create this centre, but despite this great consensus – the parties that have been in the government since this year 2016 – it is a centre that does not encourage itself, that continues to be in a minority of languages, that goes on to speak a lot, that when they approve and there are motions and motions for resolutions presented to all if they vote in favour of it and to all is said: "Yes, yes, it is fundamental that the international role of Catalonia, the international agenda follows the defence of human rights, without any limitation, but the centre did not advance. The center didn't advance for years. More than five years after the first motion was approved by this Parliament, and we had nothing to do with the table. End when? Until, finally, the organised civil society of this country, the society that has prevented solidarity and cooperation in this country since the camps of 0.7 and long before, from all the movements of solidarity, for example, with the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua, has remained this organised civil society that, once more, sees that neither from the government nor from the Parliament there was the strength to stop the creation of this centre, so, has gone down the lines, set out to work and made this proposal for the creation of the Centre d'Empresa e Drets Humans. So, if we're here today debating this, it's thanks to these entities. Thanks to the Business Working Group and Human Rights of Lafede; thanks to the Catalan Taula for Colombia; thanks to more than fifteen entities, like Cooperation, with Solidarity Alternative, with Entrepobles, with Amnesty International, who are from this Business Group and Human Rights, to whom I also want to take advantage to greet, because some of their representatives accompany us to live, also, this historic moment. It is all thanks to them that we have this text that Parliament is debating today. It's also thanks to them that we have a web page, which is called Alert, right? , Human Rights Alert, which is a web page where you can now go to consult, through a map and some files, what are the impacts in violation of human rights of some Catalan companies or companies working and benefiting from their activities in Catalonia. This is a web page that I recommend everyone to see, because it is an example of the work that this Business Centre and Human Rights should do with public resources, not depending on the resources that their own entities and organizations are putting in place to do this investigation. And if we enter this web page, then we can see for example the case of Cartagena, Colombia, right? , that its joint venture liquidated the municipal water management enterprise, that is, privatized the water management, created a joint venture that is said to be AQUACAT, which is curiously managed and participated for Agbar, right? And then, too, if we enter this web page we can find information and references about how this company is violating the rights of Convention 169, of the rights of indigenous peoples, because it is environmentally, socially, culturally and economically impacting the lives of these peoples. This is an example of how a company that works and enriches Catalonia and which, moreover, is manifestly against water re-municipalization processes, and which is using lawfare to try to end... – and which is also criminalizing these entities through quarrels – so Agbar is doing this right-wing violation there. Who is it that surely does not care that Catalonia has a rigorous, serious, resourceful and capable business centre and human rights? So to Agbar, probably. Or Mango and Zara, that we're sick of watching the news, and that we can also find on this web page, as they violate labor rights in these places where they make that stuff that's next here is coming for a price that's clearly inferior to what it would be if there was a fair process of producing this. And we had the accident at Rana Plaza, more than an accident we could almost talk about a murder, due to the precarious working conditions that all those people had, which caused the death of more than a thousand people. Therefore, we arrive at the creation of this Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights, which we insist is urgent and which is necessary and priority. Why? Because it's true that we fill our mouths, all of us, that Catalonia is a solid society, that Catalonia is a land of concentration, that Catalonia defends the rights and freedoms. And it's true, that; but it has to be in all its aspects. That's not true, for example, in development cooperation, is it? A law that was approved by the year 2001, which by 2010 had reached 0.7_percent of cooperation and official development aid, but which, unfortunately, in this 2021, we are still at 0.2. That was approved by a board of directors the last legislature that expected to reach 0.7 by 2030 and that in the second year of application of this board of directors the commitments by the government have already been incomplete. In a negotiation of assumptions that we know we have come to extremes and that we have done everything possible because it is keeping our commitments and that there was no willingness on the part of the government. So, we have one of the great friends of solidarity and cooperation in Catalonia, as is official development aid, in critical hours. It is certain that he is recovering from the details of the government of Artur But, that they left it almost to the point of extinction more absolute, but it is certain that this recovery, with the prediction that there was, has collapsed. But it's that, besides, it's little use for us to allocate resources, it's 0.7, it's 0.2, in the official development aid, if with the other 99.3_per_cent we're not working on the same line as this global justice and that this defense of human rights and freedoms. If we are allocating resources, therefore, to the project to strengthen indigenous peoples, to defend cultural, social and environmental rights, then let us not watch that the undertakings with which the Government of Catalonia contracts have no implication in the violations of the rights of these peoples. If we are supporting organisations working to defend the human rights of the Palestinian people and the great violation of human rights on the part of the State of Israel, then the Department of Action promotes that there are more suitable cooperation and internationalization of Catalan companies, with Israeli security undertakings, for example. Or that the Department of Action has a Paisa report on Israel that practically, oops! , obvious the Palestinian conflict. There's nothing going on there in Palestine, huh? There's nothing... Therefore, this is the coherence of policies. We must be able to do what we do with solidarity and cooperation in development, as well as the rest of the policies of the Government of Catalonia. And in order to do that, what do we need? Information. Truthful information, contrasted information, effective information. And this has to be a public policy, this cannot depend on the resources or good will and the busy hours of the activists, this has to be a public policy and will. And this is this Centre for Business and Human Rights. A business center and human rights that we have to ensure is independent. That he has public resources because he makes a public policy, but that he remains independent of the interests of political parties, governments and businesses. Above all, from the start. For this reason, the document insists very much on what the configuration and governance of this Business Centre and Human Rights should be like. It's working, too. Its functions must be rigorous. It is to say, it must be noted, also, a before and after the inn in the march of this Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights, with sufficient resources, with sufficient technical capacity. And also, we insist very much, with sanctioning capacity on what it can sanction, as it is, for example, when companies do not comply with their obligation to provide information. If we don't have..., if we finish processing this law proposal with a business center and decapitated human rights, we'll all be doing ourselves a little favor, because we'll end up another time with a law that's pretty about the paper, that's for everyone to fill their mouths with entrepreneurs, human rights violations, and I don't know what, but then it's not effective, it's for nothing. It has been said that the text requires changes. A parliamentary process is precisely to listen to experts. All groups will be able to submit their proposals for peers, to submit papers, with the aim of improving the text, but not with the aim of leaving it on paper. Because if all the groups that have signed up to this law proposal after we boycott and end up making papers and approving a content that does not keep the initial experience of the Business Centre and Human Rights that, moreover, is what the entities that present it have worked on, it is that we are not doing what the text asks for. And we've already seen on other occasions how there are groups that so to go out to the photo, so they sign the proposals and register them, but then, when they look at the text, oops, maybe we don't care exactly what's here. And then they try to pervert who's the object of the proposed law that's coming forward. We will age because the text has the slightest possible changes. It can always get better, but we will be very careful that it is not perverted the objective of the creation of this Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights, because Catalonia will be better, because we will do a better job in Catalonia as well as outside Catalonia. Because that's not an attack on businesses, that's working with businesses too, because they do better than their job, because it's not a threat, it's simply a guarantee of human rights. And that can't be a threat to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.153.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.154.0	Thank you, President Laura Borràs. In the first place, a self-criticism. I think that since six years ago this Parliament has three times voted in favour of the Centre d'Empresa i Drets Humans. And, therefore, six years are many years and, therefore, make a self-criticism in this sense. The second, which is essential, is to give welcome..., it is impossible to list all entities because there are hundreds of entities behind it, because this is a project that is the result of the good work done by civil society organized for many years. And we can give, for this reason, the welcome, because I am a little the promoter group, to the people of Lafede, to the Catalan Taula for the Pau and Human Rights in Colombia. But, ultimately, our commitment, our intervention here today is to say that you have made us a burden, that you have put a few fingers on us and that we will make them. It's a project that has widespread social support. We saw... I was looking at the unions, I saw that there was the Interunion, the local world and the Catalan background. We've seen that there's the National Youth Council, that there's the Third Sector Entity Table... I'm telling you, it would be impossible to make a list of everyone who supports this proposal. Paradoxically, there are no business organizations. And, therefore, this is a job to be done, because we are for the dialogue with everyone. And, therefore, what we need to do, we need to build ourselves up, and we need to make ourselves stronger. And, therefore, to what we jointly presented, which you brought into the register to the Parliament of Catalonia on 5 July of the 21st, therefore, this proposal will see today the light with a very broad support. I'm telling you, it's not very common in this Parliament. There are the commons, there's the CUP, there's Esquerra, there's Socialists, there's Junts. For what he does to Junts... And you'll see, deputies and deputies, that I'm leading the DAs today, because I think it's important to do that. When we talk about – I've heard myself say many times – human rights – all of us, for everyone and everything else – we say it because we practice it. And, besides, we practice it without regard to latitudes. In this Parliament it happens sometimes that when someone talks about Poland, they say different things than when they talk about Venice. And the other way around, that someone when they talk about Cuba says different things about when they talk about Poland. In any case, to us, the rights are a filter that is good for us all over the world and that does not depend on latitudes. And I liked it very much because we all talked about coherence, political coherence when we act. And it is important that the coherence of political forces is seen in what they say in Parliament, in what they say in Congress. And, for example, what they say to the European Parliament. And we here have a very firm, very strong guide of a job being done together in the European Parliament from a long time ago. I haven't given a few examples. For example, in March 2020, he was the pro-president of Puigdemont, in his Euro MP condition, when he was radically opposed to the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Vietnam. Because Vietnam is a rule that has political prisoners and exiles. It would be good for us to look at the signs of today, which position they held at that time. When we talk about political coherence, we talk about that. Or after Hong Kong's total annexation to the Xina in June 2020, it was also President Puigdemont who announced this annexation in a speech to the plenary. It would also be good to see many of today's signors whose position they held in this sense. Or, for example, when June 20th MEPs denounce the trade agreement between Xina and the European Union and put it as an example of human rights violations in the province of Xingiang of the majority of Uyghur. And it is also our Members in Europe who always have the side of this need for sustainable governance at the political, economic and social levels. For example, we insist that European companies can audit, they can audit, they can fully know the traceability of the raw materials they serve. It would also be interesting here to look at how some of the promoters are positioned for what we're talking about today. And, of course, as it could not be otherwise, it has also been in the European Parliament that we have denounced Spanish companies and companies that violate indigenous peoples' ancestral rights. And we've not only stayed with the complaint, but we've also made proposals. It is also our proposal to the European Parliament, and we have done so, so that people who have suffered violations of rights in third countries can claim justice in accordance with the judicial system of the country of the member state where it is the company that has exercised this violation. Also here they ask them to look who has cost us and who has not in these questions. I explain all this to you because we don't make new, we don't make new that we don't believe and that we don't feel deeply, because we're used to saying that human rights aren't just the playground, but they define the playground. There is no political, economic or social action outside the limits of democracy, outside the limits of human rights. We know that this Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights has as its objective the internationalization of the Catalan economy, which does not generate negative impacts in the field of human rights. Therefore, we continue to be capil·laritzing in the conjunction of the Catalan society this need for knowledge, recognition and promotion of human rights. But it's also important that we try to put a little emphasis on what we talk about when we talk about entrepreneurs. Look, the businesses in Catalonia, the four-and-a-half, so a vast majority have fewer than nine workers. We're talking about a map of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. And 2012 – often recalled by the Tremosa Councillor – passed something very interesting for the Catalan economy. And it is that the main market of the Catalan company was no longer the Spanish State, but it was the external market. Therefore, there are more than three thousand Catalan companies that do their work abroad. And we say it with pride, because the first statement we have to make is that what we propose and what we regulate and where we focus is what 99.9 per cent of Catalan businesses already do. Therefore, we want to see, we want to accompany them. We very much like this idea of added value, of quality segell which means respect for the promotion of human rights. We insist, because the vast majority already do. And we'll do the dues, we'll do it, we'll do it with everybody. Today, the Councillor of Foreign Affairs, who is very pleased that this is so..., but it is important that in a government in which the responsibilities of entrepreneurs are perfectly delimited and that of human rights as well..., so we will have to talk to these two departments, because a business centre and human rights... When Parliament makes a proposal for a centre of these characteristics it will be very important to know the opinion of the respective departments, and more if we take into account that we are part of the coalition of government. Therefore, I say to you that we will put a lot of emphasis on the coherence of all the political forces involved. What we defend or what we allow Catalonia cannot be different from what we allow or defend the Government of the State. It cannot be done according to five speeches slowed down in committee or at the Faristol and then, in the Spanish Government, condition according to what. We are for this coherence of policies. The coherence of policies also means that what we ask and propose to the private sector is also done by the public sector. And, indeed, the pose of the law will not be a delay. We've got to do some work. We'll make it useful. We've got her, we've got her, we've got her, we've got her, we've got her, we've got her, we've Not just because of the name and quality of the drivers, but because we are clear that we will not let go of our functions, that we will take the challenge. This is the debt we have with the hundreds of entities that made it possible, but it is also the debt we have with the 2,800,000 people who formed this hemisphere. Therefore, we take the replete of this magnificent work that you have done with the compromise that this law of the Centre d'Empresa and of Human Rights remains useful and adds a new content in this statement that we have always made our own since Juntes per Catalunya that our world is the world. This idea that without social and economic progress there is no future, but above all without democracy, without freedom, without human rights, without sustainability there is no future. We'll do it and we'll do it right. This is our compromise. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.155.0	And finally, the end of the five proposed parliamentary groups. Mrs Ana Balsera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.156.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. He will advise, on this proposal for a law creating the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights that we are debating, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left of Catalonia would like to show our support for this proposal to the band that we have also been a group of signers. And we would certainly like to make some considerations or comments. The first of them is a grace. And it's that I can begin to thank all the entities and organizations that have made it possible that we can be here today talking about the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights. Highlight the role of the Faith for its work, for its defense of this proposition of law. Not only of this proposal, but for its strong defence of the human rights of the world, an indispensable task that we have been able to know from first hand at the various meetings that we have held. So thank you very much. Secondly, we would like to give a context or a little explanation of the precedents that lead us today to be here talking, and it is that since the first moment Republican Left has given support to these initials around the creation of Enterprise and Human Rights and cannot be in any other way for a party that understands cooperation and internationalism as essential elements of its politics and also as essential elements of Catalonia's presence abroad. For this reason, during the last two legislative periods, we have given parliamentary support to the different proposals that they wanted to make towards the creation of the Centre d'Empresa e Drets Humans. We did so with Resolution 359/11 of 3 November 2016 of the Parliament of Catalonia on respect for the human rights of Catalan companies operating abroad, which already called for the creation of a centre for the study and evaluation of the activity of Catalan companies abroad. We also want to remember that when the first bill came in, Esquerra also gave her support. We have also claimed the need to create this centre within a parliamentary work and highlight Motion 78/12 of the Parliament of Catalonia on this Government's visit to Catalan participation in colonialism. And it is a motion that framed the need to create this Centre for Human and Business Rights in a context of historical repair. Let us not forget that while the Spanish monarch still claims the colonialism of the Spanish empire, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, we have already demanded forgiveness for his role in the colonial abuses of the State. And in this context of repair we have to go further and we also have to question power relations and economic relations between the north and the south today, which is a key piece. And we have not only worked in its legislation, but we have also done some work in order to be able to deploy this project as was the development, in 2017, of the comprehensive business strategy and human rights, which we remember was done a work in collaboration with the business sector, with Foment, with Pimec, trade camres, also discussed with NGOs. Therefore, there is a lot of work planned and practically all the countries we have to remember, European and Western countries, have a strategy. So now we need to do this job, we need to do this strategy, this action plan, this program to give us a sense and consistency in this eventual creation of the center. We also want to remember and put in full value the work of the Romeva Councillor to the head, precisely, of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Also the different Foreign and Esquerra Cooperation Councillors, who have always shown their commitment to this cause. In fact, a proof is the Pla Director of Development Cooperation 2019-2021, which already fixed this horizon of 0.7_per_cent of GDP... Forgiveness, of 2030, and the creation of the Catalan Centre for Business and Human Rights. And despite the fact that we were not able to complement this task in the past legislature, we did move forward in other areas such as the decade of ethical conduct for Catalan companies. And now we have to conjure each other up because this can go forward and we can do it. And already entering upon this proposition of law promoted by the Faith, both in the presentation of motius and in the articulation of the text are very explicit and describe the will of this center and now it is up to us in the modular parliamentary process, fix and profile which will be the strategy, objective and function of this center. In fact, it is expressed that in a global world, companies operate in different states, which also has an impact on human rights and these economic activities can lead to human rights violations especially as they are manifested in contexts of conflict or unequal social contexts. And if we do not consider it acceptable that profit will prevail over human, labour and environmental rights in our country, we should not consider it more acceptable beyond our country. Hence the need for this centre, as we say, to set up this public body both for what it does to its strategy and for its functions, and for that we always say that international institutions are called, but it is also that we must strengthen and equip our own institutions with them, because we must control businesses that act poorly outside our borders and also accompany those that do well, that are the majority, we can hear. And the economist who specializes in inequalities, Anthony Atkinson, explained how a mistake it is to see the great current inequalities as if they were a product of strength over which we do not have control and can not excuse ourselves in globalization to remain with the arms folded before the people leaving to lower the labor, environmental and humanitarian standards that we regulate here among all. And just as we find it a duty to fight private individuals who profit from capital mobilization to evade taxes, we must also consider a debt to fight those companies that profit precisely from economic globalisation to increase their profit margin at the cost of violating human and environmental rights. And today we take a step, but we have a lot of work to do if we want this project to come to a good end, and we also need to adapt this project to the capabilities of the Generality; we need to be able to include other actors, such as the business community, who are committed to the sustainable economic model, including the world of work and the trade union. We all need to develop this law, and when we see each other again here we have a strong project and ambitions. And to end, as I conclude, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we defend this proposal of law, this creation of the Catalan Centre of Enterprise and Human Rights, and besides, no? , we could talk about a centre in capital letters, an action that must not be an winged instrument, but one that must be part of the national strategy of enterprise and human rights. And, in fact, these four flags that describe and defend this Republican Generality cannot remain only in Catalonia, but in a global world and globalized our task must also be to defend these four flags, these four revolutions, from the world. And human rights must defend themselves here and there, Catalonia and the whole world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.157.0	Next, and in order to make the defense of the speech to the totality presented for the Parliamentary Group VOX, has the word Ms Isabel Lázaro, for a maximum time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.158.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, Members of Parliament. They say that in politics it is almost always more important what is not said directly but is clearly intuited, and this law is a clear example of this. Today, in this Chamber, we are debating a proposal for a law establishing the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights, and we are presenting it in perfect union with all the signatory groups of the anti-democratic, ridiculous and childish cordon against VOX ; a law that has two mainly implicit objectives: one, the creation of a new Catalan chiringuito of clientelar placement for friends, and all this, of course, in charge of the work and sweat of Catalan taxpayers ; two, the creation of a new business Gestapo, with pretensions to want to label and distinguish good and bad entrepreneurs according to their ideology. These are the reasons why the VOX Group has tabled the amendment in its entirety. Let's start with the second consideration. Article 2 of the text states that the purpose of the centre is to ensure compliance with international human rights law and international humanitarian law by companies operating in Catalonia and also carrying out activities in other countries. In this sense, Article 3 on functions and competences indicates that the centre will investigate, inspect and monitor the relevant companies with the possibility of fines of up to fifty_ thousand_euro; it is noted that you do not know what it costs to earn fifty_ thousand_euro in the private sector. Now it turns out that the companies and autonomous of Catalonia, in addition to suffering the greatest fiscal pressure of Spain and its totalitarian linguistic fines, will also have to bear ideological fines. Stop putting the separatist boot on the neck of Catalan workers and entrepreneurs; they don't deserve it, that's all right. Can you explain to us that you understand human rights? Entrepreneurs and workers in Catalonia need to know what to attend to. Do they intend to promote corporate responsibility for article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which literally states that the family is the natural and fundamental element of society and has the right to the protection of society and the State? Do they intend to protect, within the business sphere, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, as stated in article 18 of the same declaration? Of course not; in fact, you are given equal human rights. Its political conception of human rights is based on the globalist ideology, which consists of three fundamental pillars: gender ideology and moral relativism, climate hysteria and multiculturalism. I mean, you don't defend human rights, you defend the ideological rights of progressive political elites living far from reality. Try to ask people in the queues of hunger, in waiting lists for social housing, in waiting lists for medical review, in primary care centers, in educational barracks, whether they consider spending money on a chiringuite of corporate and social control and indoctrination to be a priority. As for the governing body of the new institution, the rule provides for it to be integrated by a joint representation of the Generalitat and various local NGOs, among which could be, for example, Irídia, association specialized in denouncing the Mossos and the Civil Guard that presides the mother of the murderer Rodrigo Lanza, the same association that they annually subsidize with 150.000_euros between the Generalitat and the City of Barcelona to carry out the work of prosecuting their own police officers. They try to sell us, in their explanatory statement, that they fight against the abuse of the big transnational corporations, the same corporations that sell their morale progress; and it is that, in fact, lords of the left bank and separatists, the vast majority of the multinationals they talk about have become their ideological allies so as to make money and seek economic profitability. You have long ceased to represent the interests of small entrepreneurs and workers in Catalonia. An example of this is that they propose in article 13 of this law the creation of a list of sanctioned companies published on the institutional website of the centre. It is noted that you like the public notation and mockery of those who do not think like you. Ladies and gentlemen, all this would be enough to reject this proposal for a law, if not because they intend to extend their partisan placement agendas to the cost of the pocket of all Catalans. Can you tell us how much this center would cost us? We have an agency for the competitiveness of the company that costs us more than EUR 100 million a year. We have a Catalan development cooperation agency that costs us more than 35_million annually. It is clear that since VOX we think that the creation of this centre and the functions it intends to perform are part of the political waste to which we are accustomed. But can you explain to us why the agencies I have just mentioned, the competitiveness of the company or the Catalan development cooperation, cannot carry out the functions and competences stipulated in this law? With unemployment figures of more than 40_per_cent for children under 20 years of age, with almost 2_million people at risk of social exclusion, with a rate of risk of social exclusion located in 29_per_cent of the population, twelve points more than in 2018 and six more than the average in all of Spain; with endless medical waiting lists and with a real social emergency in our region, how dare they disrespect all those Catalans who live in a precarious social situation wasting money on chiringuitos and centers of control and social indoctrination? Faced with this lawlessness, Catalans will find the containment dam in VOX. Faced with their distorted and ideologicalized rights, we put on the table the protection of the human dignity of all people. Faced with its false protection of Catalan workers, we put on the table the reindustrialization of Catalonia, the end of relocation and the cessation of unfair business competitiveness with labour in third countries. Faced with its alliance with the big entrepreneurs of moralist capitalism, our support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, local and proximity trade, self-employed and workers who get up at seven in the morning to bring bread to their family. It is noted that what is said in this carpet has nothing to do with what is said on the street. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of your attempt to strangle entrepreneurs and workers, from VOX we will continue to fight for a more prosperous, more cohesive, freer Catalonia with a future worthy of all our compatriots. For the good of all, we will reject this law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.159.0	Mrs. Lazarus, I see with the obligation to tell you that if you please refrain from making comparisons again with what you have done. An initiative of this Parliament, such as the Catalan Centre for Enterprise and Human Rights, cannot be compared with the "Business Gestapo" as you have called it. I recommend that I study history first, then see how they use concepts. [[remorse of the voice]] and please refrain from comparing criminal organizations with initiatives in this Parliament. It doesn't even serve as a hippo. [[Greetings.]] Then, to expose his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.160.0	Thank you, President. I remind you that just half an hour ago the president of the Generalitat has just compared or compared a group of this chamber with Nazism. I'm saying it because next time you should get your attention too. [[Greetings.]] Well, president, anyway, we're already used to your time management and participation formulas in this chamber, and that I think is a real shame and a misconception. I, honestly, am going to enter into why..., what will be the position before this proposed law of our group. And I will start with an essential fact, and it is that one of the founding reasons for Citizens fifteen years ago was the will to fight for the democratic regeneration of our institutions at all levels. That objective has been transferred to this Parliament over and over again, and we have, in fact, supported on several occasions the creation of different bodies that could carry out this control, precisely because, against the misappropriation of public resources, against facts as clear as transfuguism, as internal corruption in some political parties. And I think that language we have always expressed in some concepts, and I think that our own language, our way of explaining it is more than explicable or it is that which gives meaning precisely to this reality. No one will doubt when we speak from Citizens of concepts that have been used and that have already become habitual, such as the removal of fat from the Administration for Muscle, or, for example, we speak of the concept of the political chiringuito – yes, of the political chiringuito – that everyone already uses and that we started to use a few years ago, because we all understand exactly what we are talking about. This week he will end a plenary on Thursday with an unbridled baccalaureate of placements of acquaintances, friends and partymates in institutions that should be called..., or at least that they should be covered not by precisely friends but by independent professionals or at least there should be some appearance of that. And today we are going to witness an important part of this client system, the old systemic policy of placements and payment of favors, a master class of how an extractive system is built in our institutions, how energies and resources are diverted into nothingness, the peak moment for which many of you sigh: the birth of a little boy. We're at that moment, how a little chiringuite is born. Well, it's simple. A political chiringuitus usually has a fatherhood and political motherhood, obviously. I will not enter the gestation process or even the previous moment of conception. I probably wouldn't have time to explain the many ways and ways in which we are often surprised to conceive and conceive of the idea of lighting an entity of this nature. But we can talk about the birth, that moment for which you are preparing and that we are going to live right now, we are living right now, thanks to the support of all the groups in this chamber. The first step. They bring us a proposal for a law, a legal text, usually with problems of constitutionality, financing or deployment, that is, with serious problems of implementation. And they try to explain to us normally without too much passion, because it is a matter of quickly passing this moment, the diffuse, incomprehensible and inaborcable ends for those who think it should serve. That is the case, and this case is perfectly explicable. Actually, it gives them a little bit of the same. The real debate will come, as it will happen this Thursday, when it is necessary to place those people whom you, then, already had in mind when you hatched that chiringuite. Normally, the purposes for which these types of political entities are created are dramatically – dramatically – removed from the needs of what we all call ‘citizenship but which you treat – and I say ‘treat' – basically as providers of resources. Because they have made the displeasure of our institutions, sterile debates and the inability to understand that the world out there is otherwise a way of life. They bring us a proposal for a law that we consider irrelevant, if less useless, almost irreverent, that they know perfectly well that they will not be able to apply; that, in fact, fortunately, they will not be able to apply; that it is based on the recurring perception of criminalization of business activity, of mistaken premises, of imprecise formulas, of an inconsistent vision of how this law can negatively affect a company and thereby our productive fabric. They comment in the explanatory statement – which undoubtedly makes clear the nullity of this law – that the actions of large companies can pose great threats to human rights abroad and that many of these states where they operate are not able to avoid it. To the purest ethnocentrism of the nineteenth century, you consider that you must go to save reality and democracy in other countries. And so they decide to create a public body and, I look at this, independent – independent – and with their own legal personality, which already make clear in Article 1 that will depend on the Foreign Council. It's obvious..., it's a clear misconception; it's absolutely a misconception. They also express the will to control and sanction all activities that they consider inappropriate from the Department of Foreign Affairs, which will in fact and de facto control this little chiringuite. They will control Catalan companies, but not only Catalan ones, but also those – we believe that you here are defending globalisation – that even if you are not Catalans, you have investments here. I do not think of a better way and a better way of discouraging the business activities of our companies abroad and penalizing investments in our community. All at once in a text. Magnificent. And all this is accompanied by functions that are ridiculous and create legal uncertainty, because obviously, as set out here, the sanction files will be based on complaints, because if they have not been able to manage functions such as labour inspection properly from the Generalitat, how are they going to inspect the activities of multinational companies abroad that have their headquarters many times in other countries? How are you going to do that? Based on reports. Legal insecurities. And I do not think of a more indecent form, therefore, of blackmail than having around a law capable of imposing fines decided by a government-controlled chiringuite based on completely arbitrary complaints – with this I believe that it does not need to express me or go much further: so it will be –; a chiringuite whose election of its members, described in articles 5 and 6, deepens in institutional, associative and party endogamy, in that which is systemic and which for years has been dismissed from any glimpse of professional independence. [[Pause.]] He'll advise... They are insurmountable in their cynical eagerness to corrupt our political system and colonize any opportunity to extract resources and energies from our society. Are these the actions they have in mind to bring our companies back when they are running away, scared, from Catalonia, they have been going away scared from Catalonia all these years? Are these the measures they have in mind? We expected an action plan, in fact, for attracting investment and returning companies, and we did not expect a law that would do the opposite. Look..., and I'm not going to extend much longer, because I think that much of what I said today..., I wanted to focus essentially on the nature of this creation, but..., on our political actions carried out during the legislature passed by my colleague Susana Beltrán, who has met many times to work so that these companies can really defend human rights, but not through a chiringuito, not through such a law, that in the end the only thing that pretends is to whitewash the political action of the Government. The only thing I will tell you to finish is that you surely think that a new world order can be drawn up from this Parliament, just as it has been decided many times that history can be changed and judged..., equals the century to which you refer, decided by some preclare minds. By the way, President, I ask you not to miss out on this again on a deputy saying what he knows or doesn't know, knows or doesn't know, and the skills he has in any matter. I also ask you, President, as you have done before, disrespectful. But what I assure you is that you can claim that, change the world order, and it may even seem that you want to advise, as it is veiled in the law, European institutions or even the UN..., I assure you that that is the only thing you achieve with these initiatives is outrage and hoaxes, in equal parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.161.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.162.0	Thank you very much, President. See, I... the truth is, I've been pretty surprised to have to discuss this bill. We are in a situation where, at the present time, more than seven thousand companies have left Catalonia, while continuing to go, seeking fiscally more friendly territories and with a political stability that does not exist here: we are in a legislative chamber that practically does not legislate, and when you propose a law proposal for, as a legislative chamber, to legislate, it is not a law that seeks to recover businesses, but what you are looking for is to put more through the companies, creating a new body, as if not enough, to monitor Catalan businesses. This... to make a point and aside. What do you mean by Catalan companies? International companies operating in Catalonia. Well, I don't know, but that's what I'm getting at, like a lawyer, a great deal of legal uncertainty. But it's more than that I'd like you to explain to us how you think you're punishing businesses that have a social outside, no longer from Catalonia, if not outside of Spain, to alienate it. I don't know how they'll do it. You don't want to give businesses facilities because they're coming back or because they're staying. In the background we have already heard here, most of the groups proposing what they are looking for is an institutional recognition that they do not have because Catalonia is not an international subject, and that is what they are looking for, the appearance that Catalonia is an international subject. And they come here to tell us that they want to supply the task of the states – the states of duty – and the international organizations, when what they have to do is to collaborate with these organizations, but not to supply them. And with all due respect, and in order to end – because, as you will understand, we will vote against this bill – that parliamentary groups that are supporting a government that fails to complete its own laws, that clearly demand that it is disrespectful of the feelings and that even more consider that the actions of the courts are an interference with democracy..., with all the love, of what human rights speak to you and with what moral right do you speak to respect rights? Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.163.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? Doesn't your voting device work? [[Pause.]] It's true. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, we'll take it into account to add this vote. The result is 19 plus 1 votes in favour, 110 against. So, the whole thing has been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do we have to go back to...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, it's true. Therefore, 19 votes in favour, 111 votes against and no abstentions. The emena to the total has been rejected. And, therefore, this initiative will be able to continue its processing. [[Greetings. Pause.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a study commission on the historical debt of the State with Catalonia]] [[252-00014/13]] So let's move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution setting up a study commission on the historic debt of the State with Catalonia. This proposal has been submitted for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and to present the motion for a resolution has the word of Mr Joan Canadell, for a maximum of two minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.164.0	Five? [[Pause.]] Okay. Thank you very much, President. I've got five minutes, so, no? [[Pause.]] In Andalusia and Extremadura years ago they claimed the historical debt of the State with these communities, and they have already received close to 3,000_million euros in transfers and ceasing to compensate for this historical debt. In these moments, Andalusia claims 10,835_million for the second historical debt, and has already offered the Valencian Country to go hand in hand to claim it together. The Valencians, through the VIIE, the Valencia Institute for Economic Research, calculate a debt associated with the unjust financing system for a total of 20,000_million euros since 2002. On October 2, 2021, Minister Montero, at the Congress of the Deputies, opened the door to condoning part of the historical debt of Murcia and the Valencia Country, because, said the minister, a significant part of this debt was generated by the inadequacy in autonomous financing. But if we're talking about insufficient funding, the Catalans are the champions, we're the leaders in absolute value. But what is the historical debt of the State to Catalonia? We take the Foment study on the infrastructure deficit of 2019 in which he spoke of 28,000_million euros in two years? Or do we take what they've done this past month and published, in which you say you've already raised to 35,000_million euros in twelve years? Or do we take that of the Cambra de Comerç, also of 2019, that tells us that there is a deficit of infrastructure accumulated of 45,000_million euros? Now it's got to be 50,000. Are we adding up the pension deficit? Catalonia brought to the caretaker the twenty-i-nou_per_cent of all that the State brought, according to the same advisor Mas-Colell in 2015. But we're only the seven percent of the population, and now this source has disappeared and distributed proportionally to the whole state. And we've only touched the disset of the twenty-nine percent we paid for. How many thousands of millions of euros have we lost in pensions that could be used to secure the future of our opinions. Did we add the transplant pending college scholarships? In addition to the vital minimum income, where are we the community that accounts for the per capita income of the State? Should we also add the imbalance between the economic pes and the Next Generation Fons that we rebream? For now, as you know, the warmest in the water. Only 6.16_percent of the distribution of autonomous communities to Catalonia has been announced. It is clear that perhaps it would be easier to take the tax balances from what began to be calculated in the 1980s and that they have given as a result a magic gypsum of the eighth_per_cent of GDP. In a persistent and continuous way: 8.5, 7.8, 7.5... here we move. Governments that govern in the State, with absolute socialist majority or the People's Party, or when they are governments that depend on the votes of Catalans and Basques, so much so. This eight_per_cent has persisted and assumed some 20,000_million euros per year a day today. Multiply all this for more than thirty years. A persistent and continuing deficit for decades is not a coincidence, it is an abuse of power, it is discrimination because of origin, which their Constitution does not allow them. If we calculate this, based on the fiscal deficit, we will see, as some authors say, that historical debt can exceed 300.000_million euros, which represents 40,000_euros per català, 160.000_euros for a family of four people. So this commission has to serve precisely for this, to calculate what the historical debt of the State with Catalonia is. And we don't expect to get paid, this debt, no. What is played, Mr Socialists, of the commons, that all that is paid for the historical debt to Andalusia, Extremadura, to the country Valencia and Murcia, when it touches us all will be excuses to say that it does not get paid. Besides, we all know that the State is unable to pay for everything you give to Catalonia, because it's been kicking it all over these years. However, as has been done in Andalusia or Extremadura, part of the payment of the debt can be made in species, with buildings from the State to Catalonia or outside Catalonia, in infrastructures such as port, public enterprises such as Aena or Renfe, or part of the artistic heritage of various museums. In any case, we will talk about this in the table of negotiations of actius and passius, which will be the real table of dialog and the one that will have to solve the future of Catalans. And it will pass as in all the secession processes of the world and, therefore, also in ours. A negotiation process that will be done like all others, with the presence of international mediators and, therefore, it will be necessary for us to have the information well detailed and approved if this Parliament so wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.165.0	Thank you very much. Then, to express his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.166.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputys the deputies. Well, that's good. Or if you fly, as Quevedo wrote in one of his satirical letters: "I am King Palomo, I eat it and I eat it. We find ourselves in front of a motion for a resolution to create a committee of study on historical debt in which you lay down the concept, anticipate the conclusions, make the calculations and, obviously, already in the first paragraph of the explanatory part of the proposal, attribute the blame to the State, that is, to Spain. So, almost all the work done. And I say it as long as you who do not plant are proposals or solutions. Those that Mr. Canadell is giving us now, of this supposed negotiation, etcetera, etcetera, already of a liquidation of estocs. They remain in the formulation of a new conceptual artifact of processist or independenceist propaganda. Entering into the background of what they are proposing, they support the statements and conclusions in the studies on the infrastructure deficit published in recent years, in particular one of the ones just quoted in 2019 for the Chamber of Commerce on the impact of the investment deficit in infrastructure in the State of Catalonia, elaborated while you yourself, the canadell deputy, was not president, of the chamber. Given the length of the title of the study, I allow the request to name it « the Canadell report. From this study, quoted to the proposal and which on page fifty concretely presents a square on the net capital stock in infrastructures based on the data of the BBVA Foundation and which you yourself have just enunciated, that it is an indicator that reflects the result of the accumulated investments less their depreciation of the last twenty years, resulting in a very interesting conclusion and that you pass by others. In fact, the contradiction, contrived to what the data say, is that it is possible to distinguish two perfectly distinguishable stages. A first stage until 2004, in which this capital stock stands at 13,6_per_cent over the total state GDP while from this year, and coincident by some with the policy of the PSOE government, this percentage increased to 15,8_per_cent. Thirty-five to almost seven percent. From this moment on, and also coinciding with the change of government in Spain, this percentage is stagnating and even retreating slightly. It should also be noted that since 2008, and again coinciding with the change in government, the state's investment assumptions in Catalonia have increased in this three-year period in a seventy-one per cent compared to the previous three-year period: from EUR 3,678_million to EUR 6,281_million. Therefore, this radical change in trend is re-observed. And in this sense and referring to the lack of proposals that restrains him from the principle, we can see that the best proposal is that there is a government led, in Spain, for socialism. Also for the one who makes the stock of net capital in infrastructure. And since this indicator does not only reflect the reversal of the State, but that of the joint administration, I also regret to say that if there was a government led by the PSC in Catalonia, it would also improve this indicator of the net capital stock. [[Some applause.]] Maintaining, yes, the criteria and principles of interterritorial solidarity. But to believe that speaking of historical debt, as you do in this proposal, has a clear propagandist objective, we could also speak of the historical debt of the Generality with the assemblies. The later studies carried out in this sense amount to the percentage of the assumption of adjustments intended for impropie competitions, i.e., of the Generality, in about thirty_percent of the assumptions. And since the total sum of the assumptions of the assemblies of Catalonia is around 10,000_million a year, we have that the historical debt of the Generality with the assemblies is 3,000_million a year. In the same period of twenty years, we would be talking about 60,000_million euros. But we could also ask ourselves whether the rich countries of the European Union like Germany, for example, want to calculate the historical debt to the si of the European Union, that they would tell them of the 4,970,41_milions European fund discards from the year 86 to Catalonia: the Feder, the Social Fund, the EAGGF, etc. Or is it that this supposed historical deuteronomy just the seer looking at the melic? If we look at the assemblies or look at Europe, it turns out that the papers are captivating and then we see the principle of territorial solidarity. More than the best guarantee of a solidary management territorially, but that it has – as it has passed and passed – the need to increase the estoc of capital, so that there is a government led by the socialists in Spain – but we are aware that this proposal would exceed the competences of this chamber, with which we are extremely scrupulous–, which is essential is that the sound of the ears is passed, that there are no empty bands and that it is able to work in the reform of autonomous finance. It is essential that all the necessary energies be used, that the calories that are agreed upon in this objective be created in order to achieve a model that responds to the needs of a model of just financing in the line of fiscal federalism and that, since institutional loyalty, the necessary investments in Catalonia in the general assumptions of the State are negotiated. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.167.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.168.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Members, Councillor, our group will vote strongly against the commission of this creation of a study called on the historical debt of the State to Catalonia for several reasons. We are opposed, as a general rule, to the creation of new commissions. Secondly, Catalonia is part of the State, Catalonia is Spain and no one owes anything to himself. We do not buy the mental framework to put Catalonia in front of Spain. Third. What they supposedly want to study is absolutely false. They have never had the slightest intention of dealing with this issue with a minimum of rigour and, therefore, with the conclusions which, so far as I have just heard from Mr Canadell, have already drawn them, because they do not have much interest in them being different from those in his account. Even accepting its twisted logic of facing two differentiated political entities, there is no debt at all. If anyone owes you something or someone it is you, the separatists, to the Catalans that we pay unorthodox taxes to keep their toxic political industry that essentially focuses on denigrating the rest of the Spaniards. We can also talk about that one day, propose one day a committee. Fourth reason. You and we know that the only reason you want to create this hysterical historical debt commission is to continue feeding the separatist monster. We know that. To continue with his tearful account, his infantile paws that so much yellow bile make his own segregated. For that, for nothing more. In the absence of proceedings, they need to continue to invent grievances and alleged humiliations of the evil Spain so that the separatist hamster will continue to spin the wheel. That is the only reason why you make this proposal. In fact, they never think of studying perhaps a historical debt of Tarragona, Lérida and Gerona with Barcelona. There are some studies pointing in that direction. Or the historical debt of the Generalitat to the municipalities. You are only concerned about the part that serves to feed, as I said before, your separatist account. Therefore, his victimistic speech does not fit. That of the outside enemy, in short, has no route nor has its hatred of the rest of the Spaniards, its supremacism with barretin or its classism to satisfy the separatist elite extracting with a lattice in flap. They need to resurrect Spain steals from us to hide the truth, which is nothing else than the process steals from us. You steal from us. [[Some applause.]] It is not enough to talk about figures today, but only the committee is set up today. Finally, I do not think it is appropriate for us to start talking here now about fiscal balances and other infrastructure deficit elements as spokesmen have done before me in the use of the floor. We'll talk, we don't have a problem. On the day the committee is set up, we will have no problem in bringing us closer together and showing them with data and technical rigour that their Spain steals from us is pure intellectual rubbish. Pure intellectual rubbish to continue insulting that Spain that finances our public debt – because that too must be said – that opens the doors to the world, that pays our pensions and that buys the products that we manufacture here. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.169.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.170.0	Good morning, Counselor. Two previas. This debate has already in a certain way been held in a motion that our own Lord Canadell defended. So neither will we repeat arguments nor pose... no? Or we'll start the debate with other political forces, because if there's a committee, we'll get it to the committee. The other is that, despite the fact that, before we vote yes, a new committee believes that it is not or has not just responded to the need to order the debates and order our lives and the workers of the chamber. But what are we gonna do about it, right? It's a commission, we'll vote for it, and if it's approved, then it'll exist and we'll find the hours to work there. Only two points in which Mr. Canadell said or in the objectives of..., and in the object of this commission. We agree to analyse the incompliments and historical debt that has been generated, but we believe that it is also interesting and that it will be necessary to contribute when we do the work plan..., that it is with Catalonia or with the governments of Catalonia and with certain powers of Catalonia and certain parties of Catalonia have also contributed to supporting this historical debt with the working classes of this country; how it has contributed to generating a debt that has been impacted by the working people of this country. Because, in the background, there is a historical debt in infrastructure or infrastructure or other elements that ends up having an impact on the working class. And, therefore, it would be good to look at agreements, decisions, where the Catalan administration or certain Catalan parties at the length of history have found something to see. And you were talking and you mentioned... aside from the issue of vital minimum income, which indeed came up in the object, you also talked about pensions. And here I think we can't say that a few months ago we approved a pension reform that was still the consolidation of the 2011 PSOE and Convergence and Union reform, where your party voted in favour. This also forms part of the historical debt with the working people of this country. A pension reform that consolidated this enlargement of the retirement age, and a pension reform that consolidated the increase of years for the calculation of pensions to twenty-five. These are the things that, if we address this debate, we also need to address its complexity and depth. And, like we're already an hour ahead of us today, so we'll add two more minutes to go dinar. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.171.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.172.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Counselor, I like that you're here, because it's a topic I think is interesting and that you should also take good part in your work, this question. We shall not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. We will abstain for various reasons. First, per format. We didn't come here to study. We have come to do politics to transform reality, to transform what we do not like, and less to make a proposal for a study committee from a group. If you want to study something that you consider very relevant first try to consent to the objectives and format. Therefore, this format, from the outset, disqualifies even the whole proposal that is presented. For use. Who's the use of this proposal? Is it determining the historical debt? Is it to try that a committee of study of the Parliament of Catalonia places in common that different experts, entities and institutions of Catalonia and the State do not agree? We'll put them politically in agreement with a debate that's pretty technical. We'll put them on political terms. Is it helpful to determine that? And for the opportunity. We won't vote either, we'll abstain because we don't see that this is an opportunity, because today's context is social emergencies. There are other issues to which we must devote, these Members and Members, our time, to giving concrete answers to the concrete, material problems of the people, of the citizens of Catalonia. Because the objective of politics, at least for us, for Comú Pueblo, is to transform reality, not to continue to burden burdens that allow us to install ourselves in the confrontation with continuously confronted fronts, that always leave us where we are and do not allow us to move forward. We want to transform reality, not remain installed in the non-res, always asking for the future somiate. It's no use to us. We, I insist, want to impose transformative policies on people, because we already know that there is a fiscal deficit. He recognizes it all, he's been recognized by the state institutions. We can discuss what is to be the method of calculation, whether the method of charge-benefit or the method of money flow, and they will give us different amounts. We can discuss the different quantities on the table, but this does not allow us to move forward. On this subject, if I have to put myself to work on this subject, I make my own the words of Councillor Mas-Colell, his predecessor, one of his predecessors, hasn't had much. But Counselor Mas-Colell especially was one of his predecessors who in this matter I think was enough..., could disagree and disagree in many things, especially in the conception of economic policy, but in this topic the Lord Mas-Colell said something that would be worth not forgetting, that with Spain the economic problem of the foundation is not the fiscal deficit is self-government. That's what Mr. Mas-Colell said. Let's get our hands on the work. Possibly, we'll settle for more self-government. So, if you want more self-government, let's get out of here and work on it; we have room to work on it. We are proposing more and better self-government. You can do it. We have a dialog table to do it. What are we waiting for? We have proposals for self-government. We do not follow installation installations, we make concrete material proposals, which allow us to get out of a sound to advance. But I also want to make my own the words that President Aragones himself said today. I think we need to share them all. President Aragones said this morning: we have to be where people's problems are. That's politics. In this country we have to be where the people's problems are; the president said so. And the people's problems aren't in history, they're giving way to the material problems they have. Menys talking about us and talking about the country, the president said that this morning. And he was calling on us to build the country's big consensus. And I don't think building the country's big consensus is going to set us up to build a big weight that's not going to help us move forward. It's about securing us, this whole room, everyone we share that can move forward with a fairer finance. Of course, the current funding does not please us. I think this is shared by most of the chamber that we want Catalonia to move forward. We create a committee of studies in this Parliament... not of study, forgiveness, a working group or a committee of work in this Parliament that allows us to build a proposal the maximum consensus for the maximum political groups of the Parliament. It is a proposal that provides for sufficiency, greater economic sufficiency, greater resources, that is fair, that is solid, that is co-responsible. This is Catalonia's proposal to contribute to the financing model. And, at the same time, we are in the dialog table with the State in which proposals we have to move forward in self-government. These are the two questions that can give us answers to the people's concrete problems. Building a proposal for a new funding model that allows us to move forward because what we don't like is that we can build it between everyone and everyone and build self-government proposals that allow this new funding model to give better answers to people's concrete and material problems every day. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.174.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we witness the sublimation of the supremacist and xenophobic discourse of the North League in Catalonia. Mr. Canadell is probably one of his most unspeakable representatives in this chamber, not the only one, but one of those who most despicablely embrace that discourse so solvent, so harmful to coexistence in a society, so contemptuous to a part of our fellow citizens and so deeply speaking. The truth is that all the arguments that purport to justify the creation of this commission on the historical aggravation of the « evil Spanish state towards Catalonia are fallacies, are lies, are a huge bolus that today Mr Canadell has also led to the extreme saying that the fiscal expoliation, I insist, that argument that would perfectly sign Salvini, that would perfectly sign the representatives of the North League, has come to say that it is no longer 16,000_millions, it is not 20,000_millions, but 300,000_millions_of_euros directly. And he says it and it stays so wide. And it also seems to you that it is a very reasonable thing. Well, Mr Canadell forgets historical elements such as how the Catalan economy reaches the 20th and 21st centuries. Let us not forget that the Catalan economy has been favored historically since time immemorial, but especially since the eighteenth century, with the opening of trade with the Americas of the Catalan industry, the wine industry, the cotton industry, the textile industry that for many years allowed Catalan industrialists to amass huge fortunes on the basis of the protectionism of the supposedly evil Spanish state. We need to know a little about Catalonia's history to know that the great economic historians of Catalonia will give reason to those we say, that we hold that for Catalonia to be part of Spain it has been a great, not only a great thing in cultural, social, sentimental terms, but a very big business. Therefore, Mr Canadell, your thesis on 'Spain steals from us, on tax fraud, I insist, is an immense boulevard which has no rational basis or argumental basis. The problem is that it is an argument that is profoundly detrimental to coexistence, as Mr Ernest Lluch said, to rest in peace. It's an ideological boon for living together in a society. That's what your speech is, Mr. Canadell: ideological monal. It is pure poison for Catalan society to be saying that Andalusians, extremists, the rest of the Spaniards steal from us. This means that today, for example, we have known through the Global Chronicle that an important part of Catalans regard Andalusians as settlers. That is a real shame and it is precisely the fault of that deeply xenophobic and supremacist speech that you make. Some polls say this, and also some Catalans of Catalan Abolengo rancio respond to it, as well as Catalans of Andalusian origin who, in fact, feel colonists on their land. It's a real shame. We must combat that dangerous speech, that xenophobic speech which unfortunately spreads across other countries of Europe, but which also in Spain and with unspeakable representatives like you has a particularly worrying dimension. I think we should be a little fair with history, recognizing that more than a commission on the historical aggravation of Spain or the Spanish State, as you like to say, in relation to Catalonia what we would have to talk about is the historical benefit that Catalonia has had as part of Spain. Catalans have benefited us deeply from being part of Spain. We have been a fundamental part of each and every important historical moment in the history of our country, of Spain. For the good and also for the bad, everything has to be said. Because, of course, you pose the history of Catalonia as a confrontation between Catalonia and Spain, as if they were two abstract entities perfectly counterponsible to each other and that is a real nonsense. Indeed, throughout the history of Spain there have been shadows, but there have also been lights. Many of them, by the way, of which we have been Catalans. I remind you, for example, that when in Cuba there began to be an incipient autonomous movement, not secessionist, autonomous, at the end of the 19th century it was Catalan industrialists who prevented Minister Maura from granting an autonomous parliament with limited powers in Cuba. It was the Catalan industrialists who said that the indissoluble unity of our Spanish nation could not be overcome. Catalans of Abolish Rancio who surely do not know or want to know, but who in any case are surely part of the best tradition of loyalty of Catalans to the rest of Spain as for example Antoni de Capmany, who in the 19th century already wrote Sentinel against French on the occasion of the French invasion of our country. I believe, sincerely, that we must know the story, we must stop fuelling the low passions, we must stop fuelling the hatred of the rest of Spain, hispanophobia, that pedagogy of the hatred you make and we must start working for a better Catalonia within a better Spain. And that is precisely what we, from Citizens, propose and propose to the rest of the chamber. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.175.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word. Thank you very much, President. It proposes the group of Junts per Catalunya the creation of a study commission to analyze the historical debt of the State, of Spain, with Catalonia, which would therefore constitute a study commission on a lie. There is no historical debt of the State to Catalonia, what there are good governments and bad governments, governments of Spain in which Catalonia led the growth and job creation, even throughout the euro area, by the way, they do not like to hear what, the governments of the People's Party, or bad governments like the confluence of the current ones in all the administrations, what they do is to sink to Catalonia. In any case, I will pick you up, Mr Canadell, the glove, and I also challenge you, using the same methodology, to set up seven study commissions. I will tell you: in this case it would be the commissions of study of the historical debt of the Generalitat with various territories, using its methodology, that is, the taxes paid and the investments received. The first would be the commission of study of the historical debt of the Generalitat with Tarragona, with the entire province, especially with the Ebro Lands, systematically abandoned, and with its capital, which as capital of the Hispania Citerior has always received from you a special mania. The second and third would be the commissions of study of the historical debt of the Generalitat with Lleida and with Girona. The fourth would be the Generalitat's historical debt study commission with the metropolitan area, which, using its usual methodology, would be full of "norths, carnegos and colonists, and therefore has always been systematically obviated by you. The fifth commission of study would be the historical debt with Barcelona, that Olympic Barcelona, cosmopolitan, open, mestizo that so much mania has also provoked them historically. The sixth would be the study commission that would analyze the different treatment received by the convergent municipalities and the rest in Pujol's time, which was absolutely scandalous. And the seventh, finally, using the same intellectual exercise, that of the treatment received by the municipalities ruled by the left at the time of the tripartite and the others, which also had very different treatment. If you propose and approve these seven committees, I swear to you, most sacredly, that I vote for yours, but I am very afraid that you have no interest in knowing the truth of the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.176.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.177.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... good morning to everyone. Well, the debate that is raised today in this motion for a resolution, as its name indicates, is a historic debate. Many historical references have appeared at the length of the debate, I will also bring some, because it seems to me that it is interesting to contextualize the subject we are talking about today. The high fiscal pressure on Catalonia and the low levels of state investment in our country has been a constant history of many – many – years ago; precisely, since the War of Succession, when, from the register tax, as a war tax, it began to apply a very important fiscal pressure on our country. The history of the economy brings us data that quantify this situation. Some economists plant that in 1880, Catalans and Catalans, at that time, we paid the twenty-i-set_per_cent of the taxes. At that time, we only represented the deu_per_cent of the population of the Spanish State. In 1900 only the province of Barcelona paid the same taxes as all Andalusia, all Castella la Vella, all Aragó and València together; only the province of Barcelona. On 26, 1926, we already represented 11.5_per_cent and paid 30_per_cent. Some justify this historically as opposed to protectionist policies, as if protectionist policies only affected Catalan businesses, as if they were a favor to Catalan industrialists. We have improved in the last forty years, it is true; we represent the seven-per-cent, no longer the god, we passed to the seven-per-cent of the population, we no longer pay the twenty-i-seven or thirty-per-cent of taxes, we only pay the twenty-i-four. For another band, the reversal of the State in Catalonia has had similar tendencies; we move around the god, twelve, fourteen_per_cent of the reversal executed, not reality, not cheating, as someone planted a few moments ago. Since the match I represent, the year 93, we have done here, very close, the concert for the concert, and we have already laid down from the table with great strength this debate thirty years ago. And for thirty years now, we have also been convinced that this historical debt is not the solution in the framework of autonomy, the solution only in the framework of the Catalan Republic. Some have intervened, PSC and common, and suggest that the solution of this historical debt is to work for a new financing system. The current funding system was approved in 2009, expired in 2013; seven years ago, eight years ago, half of which were in the hands of governments of the PSOE and the commons. Do it, if you think this is the solution, why don't you do it? It does and is the responsibility of the Government of the State. Don't come here and plant what you should do where you're ruling. While considering that the debate that we are debating today is historic and recurrent and is certainly an overtaken hair, we will vote in favour of this committee. And first of all, we will vote in this committee, in favour of this committee, because we believe that putting data, objectiveness, quantifying the problems of this historical debt can be positive and certainly advance towards shared diagnosis between the different groups and bringing different visions to us can help us to move forward with a shared solution. And it seems to us that what we're talking about today is talking about people's problems, at least in the Republican Left, it seems to us that talking about people's problems is talking about investments in Rodalies, regional investments, the transport of goods across the Mediterranean, or about the infra-financing of Catalan sanitation. It seems to us that this is talking about the problems of the citizenry. We could pose a lot of problems that perfectly illustrate that when we denounce the lack of State investments in Catalonia we are not before a rhetoric to justify certainly national aspirations, as someone says, we are before an objective, historical and recurrent fact; we are also before a centralism that does not only affect Catalonia, which affects many other territories of the State, which are beginning to raise their voice, and we are before centralist policies that affect the life of all the citizens who have lived in Catalonia, continue or do not continue to be independent. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this committee of study, also from the conviction that we will only change this coughing historical reality by making the way of the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.178.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution of a Study Commission on the historical debt of the State with Catalonia. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution received 71 votes in favour, 51 against and 8 abstentions. Therefore, it has been approved. [[Greetings.]] And we suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.179.0	Very nice late. Let's resume the session with the twenty-point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the labour market]] [[302-00084/13]] Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the labour market; presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.180.0	Thank you very much, President. Well; in the previous plenary session, during the inquiry to the Councillor of Enterprise i Treball, we showed, both sides, some data on the labour market in Catalonia, and we agree that this year had to be the year of consolidation of the recovery. These two years ago we experienced the hardest consequences of an unprecedented economic, social and health crisis, but which, unlike the previous crisis, did not excuse the Spanish Government from pursuing austerity policies and loss of citizens' rights, as was the previous one; rather, the opposite: this crisis has accelerated the expected changes in the medium and long term. In this context, a number of very important measures have been adopted that show the Government's commitment to the rights of workers in particular and to the country's citizenship in general, such as, for example, the rise in the minimum wage, the law of riding, the minimum living income, or the labour reform approved last week in Congress. The new text addresses the main ills of the labour market in Catalonia – temporality, precariousness and unemployment, high unemployment rates – apart from building a new framework of labour relations to address the new economic and productive challenges facing the country in the coming months. I do not think it is necessary to recall the way, in my view, let us say, in which Congress adopted the new text last week, a text of great importance and which will change the working and rights framework of millions of workers in the country; but I do think it is necessary to mention the most relevant aspects of this new rule, which, by the way, in the first month of implementation alone we have already been able to see the fruits it is bearing. This January 2022 has recorded the highest number of indefinite contracts signed in one month of January since data are available. Fifteen_per_cent of the contracts signed in January were indefinite. Or the estimate we have been able to get to know, in which about 280,000 construction workers will go on to have indefinite contracts. We can also talk about the workers of the multi-service companies, who will see their wages increased, matching the rest of the compañeros who do the same jobs. Or the workers and trade unions, who will cease to live under the constant pressure that some companies exert on them when they see their company agreements expired. Or young people, who chain contracts of endless practices that they hide is a genuine employment relationship. Just to give some examples. For this and other reasons, our group is totally incomprehensible that some political parties – especially those from the left, because we can already expect them from the right – vote against a text that so many rights return to the workers of Catalonia. Because it is true that the rule has to ensure fair compensation. Therefore, by encouraging indefinite recruitment, workers will be replaced by eight days of compensation in their temporary contract, to twenty, with their indefinite contract. Yesterday, in the inquiry that the deputy of Esquerra made to Councillor Torrent, he did a little brush stroke on why his parliamentary group is against labour reform. And surely today you will be able to extend it to us in your speech. But there was one of those reasons that especially caught my attention, which was the non-recovery of processing wages. Not because of the subject, but because of the justification. He said something like that the workers were helpless and that many did not intend to carry out certain legal actions at the time when they were fired for the mere fact that processing wages were lost. The truth is that I didn't understand it very well, as salary processing, until its loss in 2012, was a right that was acquired at the end of the judicial process; that is, it was not previously guaranteed. The worker started a judicial procedure – a judicial procedure, by the way, free of charge, has no costs and no court fees – and when the judge handed down a judgment, it was the time when he or she was given the right, or not, to the processing wages that he or she had earned during the period. Good. Well, as time is running out, I don't want to extend, I don't give myself time to mention some other points of the motion, I would just like to congratulate from this Parliament's Faristol, the social actors for the capacity they have had to dialogue, their willingness to dialogue, and above all for the agreements reached. And I would also like to thank, of course, the parliamentary groups that will support this motion today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.181.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. As no papers have been presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.182.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to you all again. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start my speech with a brief context: Thursday, 3 February. Congress of Deputies. A law was adopted that ratified Royal Decree-Law 32/2021 and gave it the status of law. This very important rule is ratified by a single vote of a Member of the People's Party. Human error, pitfalls, technical judgment..., we are faced with some very serious facts that will be investigated judicially, at the request of the VOX Parliamentary Group. If this is a bust by the prevarication of the president of the chamber, the socialist Mrs Batet, we will not hesitate to open criminal cases; if not, we will see. [[Strong laughs.]] In this context, today we are debating a motion by the Catalan Socialist Party on the labour market. In its point 1, they propose to defend dialogue. Socialists, they put as an example of dialogue the one that culminates in the agreement of the labour reform of the Social-Communist Government. In order for a dialogue on the labour market to be fruitful and beneficial, the partners cannot be ultra-subsidized trade unions, more likely to defend their privileges than workers' rights. We cannot agree with a labour reform that mainly disrupts two areas: recruitment and collective bargaining. The one about hiring. I'm going to read you a message I received from a friend of Gerona's last Friday: "I've already run out of work because of the law this one. They have finished us all eventuals, and when the unions have asked for explanations, they have said to them: "But what do you come to complain if this law has been agreed upon by you; now you eat it. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This reform associates temporality with precariousness. And, gentlemen, if you know the Spanish labour market you will know that temporality is intrinsic to the Spanish productive model. It is essential to seek flexible formulas through Article 41 of the Workers' Statute. Otherwise, in the face of complicated business situations, they will only be able to opt for dismissal, as my friend has done. Two, that of collective bargaining. It has a goal, according to the text itself, "to regain the central role and strengthen the legitimate scope of action of the negotiating subjects of the collective agreements, which means raising the power of the ultra-subsidized class unions, those who walk the streets at the hands of terrorists and who do not represent the workers. By giving all power to these unions, workers and employers are being deprived of their freedom. We would not only admit any labour reform that would benefit Catalan workers, create jobs and boost our economy, but would be the driving force behind it. This reform abandons workers, hinders job creation and, moreover, obviating SMEs and self-employed, which are the main drivers of the occupation in Spain. With regard to reordering the Catalonian Occupational Service, what needs to be done with SOC, in line with our initiatives, is to return competences to SEPE. Finally, they propose to reform the labour inspection. Socialists, of course, we are in favour of the pursuit of labour fraud, but we are beginning to have the impression that whole sectors are being criminalised and that the company is being disincentived through repression. Employers and workers no longer need bureaucratic and administrative hindrances. Entrepreneurs and workers need policies that enable them to develop their work and professional activity. For all the above reasons, the VOX Parliamentary Group cannot approve its motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.183.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.184.0	Well, good afternoon. A first incis: I imagine that the Socialist Party is campaigning for Castella and Lleó; otherwise, I do not understand this change in the use of idiom in Parliament. Today some celebrate what, when we hear it, is a defeat. Because no, labor reform is not a victory. When we look at a change in labour legislation, we have to look at different perspectives. First, we have to look at the concrete; we also have to look at the reality of the regulation until that moment – a reality of the regulation absolutely conditioned for the counter-reform work of 2012– and, finally, we also have to analyze how it will maintain or change the material and social reality of the working class – because that is what matters, the working class and how they improve their conditions. So, if we look, right? , the first element – i.e., the current conditions – we have to take into account the existing socio-laboral reality, which is marked by low wages, unstable working conditions, easy and low-cost co-operation and collective bargaining that strengthens trade unions and employers. And this reality has two starting points: one, thirty years– from 1980 to 2010– with small labor counter-reforms, and one_of_second, which means the 2012 counter-reform, the People's Party counter-reform. And the royal decree that was approved last week does not derogate from the contents of the Labour Counter-Reform of the People's Party – cap. It only slightly modifies the ultraactivity and the application preference of the agreement, but it does not derogate from the substance of the 2012 reform. That's why they keep the main elements intact..., or the most essential elements of the right of work, such as the attachment and substantial modifications of working conditions. If we look at the accommodation, we keep the causes, the reduction in compensation of thirty-three days/year with top of twenty-four tables, the elimination of processing wages and the need for administrative authorization for the accommodation collected. It's all kept. Therefore, it remains easy to eat, it remains easy and at a low cost for businesses. Who's winning? The workers don't, they're entrepreneurs. But, at the same time, you can also continue to modify the negotiation individually and collectively. Oh, come on, most of the working conditions. Therefore, collective bargaining is not approached either. The changes are insignificant. And what I said before, it is not certain that the non-ultraactivity of the agreements is repealed, is modified a little introduced that, after one year of the complaint, will have submitted to the regular mediation procedures to the interprofessional agreements and, once exhausted these, allows to maintain the ultraactivity. Therefore, the essential elements of what caused the major general waves until the general waves of the last two years, is not changed. So, what victory are we talking about for the working class? Another element that had been much debated and seemed to have been promised to the affected collection: subcontracting. But nothing happened to him that he promised. There is no new limitation to work and service subcontracts, but simple drafting changes. Let's keep the same thing going. And, finally, the temporary regulating shippers, the ERTOs. So it shows that the big difference between 2008 and 2020 to get out of a crisis is not so different. In 2008 we transferred public money to the bank and now what we do is, in the fund, give capital to businesses, but do not strengthen or work for the working class. Because it's ERTOS by force major and ERTOS in public health. They're moving on, aren't they? events for future pandemics. The RED mechanism of flexibility and stabilization has more shadows than lights. Therefore, the history of ERTO is abandoned, which gave a response to a conjunctural situation and extended us from what was the co-payment and what co-payment means, and aims to reduce the business risk and take it with new public money. 2008 we rescued the bank and now we're rescuing the companies. And that doesn't mean rescue the working class. Therefore, we will vote that not this young man. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.185.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.186.0	Good afternoon, all of you. I am pleased that Councillor Elena is here, because she will be able to take note of the company she has denounced and of the company that has denounced Mrs Lazarus..., to send the security features of Catalonia to watch a company that is not complying with the legal rule and, more importantly, is threatening the workers with taking them to the margin of the law. Please, Mrs. Lazarus, pass on to Councillor Elena the data of the company and the entrepreneur who is violating the rights of workers and workers. [[Greetings.]] That said, I want to thank Mrs. Elena Díaz, the MP from the PSC who presented this young man. I think he has made very clear the hope of this young man and the importance, at these times, of making this young man. First, because it puts in value something that the decree approved, validated for the Congress of Deputies, has put in value, and that is something that here in Catalonia we have for a long time incorporated into our DNA – Statute of autonomy, law of creation of the Council of the Social Dialogue –: the importance of promoting social dialogue as an element of creation of rights from the participation of those agents involved in labor relations, which is where the rights are created in the world of work, from the agreement, from the agreement, from the negotiation. You're important. We had Catalonia, and we must congratulate ourselves on the fact that the state law of labour reform has incorporated this element of the social dialogue into its value. We must not be disturbed, therefore, by the fruits of the social dialogue. On the contrary, it puts in value that this is more democracy, that this is more participation, more articulation of the interests that exist in a society, that go beyond politics and that they help us also to build policies, depending on the counterposition of interests that build positive agreements. First question. The second question. I think the young man is also in the position that this new legal framework that we have is opening up huge possibilities for improving people's lives. And it is very important that the Government of Catalonia use this new legal framework to help improve people's lives in the stable contract against the storm, to strengthen collective bargaining, to improve internal flexibility in customer accounts, external flexibility before change and so on, and also to strengthen inspectorship. The legal rule opens up enormous possibilities because the Government of the Generality acts before the abuses that companies can do. We have executive capacity in the inspection. We ask for more resources, yes, but the executive capacity we have to use to make the rule complete. Occupational rehabilitation is what foresees the contract and not the temporality; it is necessary to act here. But at the same time we need to use this rule to deepen what is the catalan mark of labor relations. The Catalan brand of labor relations is what we all want. He also sent us the Statute of Autonomy. But it is that the Catalan mark of labour relations is not without the contest of the most representative business and trade union organizations of Catalonia, which are the ones that build this Catalan mark of labour relations, also concerting with the Government those things that involve in a tripartite way, the bipartite and the tripartite. The inter-confederal agreement of Catalonia which is reinforced from the position of the Government does not intervene there. Because it is the autonomous parts that have to decide things, but the government has to put the law down because the things flow and the economic and social agents can also build in Catalonia our rights from the approved legal standard. And then the government has to do its job, too. We need to take advantage of this rule to do what the rule says. We cannot allow there to be workers or workers in public enterprises, whether public foundations or whatever – instruments that we have used to make public management more flexible – which are below, below, remunerations, less than the sectoral agreement of the activity they carry out. The government has to take note of this. That's what the norm says. If the rule says that and that is good for the workers, the Government of the Generality has to make that to the workers of the subcontracted enterprises, even though they are public, apply the sectoral agreement of reference to the activity that they carry out. We can't let it go any other way. I'm done. I also ended up lamenting that people could be lied to or fooled, too, from this rostrum. What we cannot say is that this reform or counter-reform of work does not derogate from essential aspects of labour reform. And they can't add three general waves... which I convened, organized and carried out, together with others, not only and exclusively, but in a fairly important way. And I know what those general waves were, and I know that it was in those general waves, and I know how important it is to regain power and the right to collective bargaining, to strengthen the power of the workers in front of the entrepreneur. And I know that lying and deceiving people, working people, tell them that when you have rights, you don't have them... that's weakening the person and strengthening the entrepreneurial power to use the person as you want. We have to tell the person who are the rights that the law today takes over. We don't fool them; we don't tell them they haven't won rights. Because they have won rights and these rights must demand them before the entrepreneur. To deceive the people is to stand at the side of the power against the fever, which today the law protects him. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.187.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.188.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, as I am going to start by saying that Mrs Reguant has made a very inspiring speech and is going to give me the opportunity to start with her. One, because we are lucky that we can use the language we want in this Chamber and that none of the Members of the CUP will ever be able to put it in our face, because we have always been consistent in that. Which I think is more than obvious in this case. That's why they give us the reason for their intervention. And the second is that, after criticizing what we voted for in Congress – which in this I do understand is consistent with your proposals – it still reaffirms us more to what we did or what we did last week, responsibly, as Liberals in the Congress of Deputies, approving this reform. Anyway, this motion, Mrs Díaz, has introduced it to talk about the labour market. In fact, it's a broader discussion, isn't it? It's going a little further. It is true – it is true – that the labour reform that was approved last week has..., or is going to draw what this labour market is going to be in the coming years. There are some facts that are true, such as the increase, for example, of indefinite contracts – now I will go to that. What is clear is that so far the labour market was a binary market basically, a market that had this duality between indefinite and temporary, between work and self-employment, between protected and vulnerable, between what we could say insiders and outsiders of the same labour market. I think so, that we talk many times and you talk, from the PSC, then, about dialogue. Many times, this dialogue can work, as has happened with labour reform; other times, they recognize me..., and I think they can recognize that it is totally an empty excuse not to face the problems that exist in Catalonia. But it's also a totally legitimate strategy on the part of the PSC. But I believe that, in this case, at least from our point of view, beyond the excessive use of the royal decrees in Congress, just as there is an excessive use of the decrees here in Catalonia, political dialogue and social dialogue, so it may have been..., or this time it has worked. On labour reform, we have said many times that this reform that was adopted is not ours. I imagine that of one of the parties that voted for it, then, neither. It's not ours. For us..., I think some details of it are not the ones we had defended. We believe that it is not..., although data are given on the growth of indefinite contracts already in January, we must end precisely that duality of the labour market. We defend – we have always defended it – the single indefinite contract and the accompanying of this with the so-called ‘Austrian backpack', which would serve precisely to make the labour market more flexible, to do the most dynamic, and above all to facilitate, for example, the entry into the labour market of young people, or those I have said before that they are outsiders, in this case, and that I think it would be a good strategy to somehow reduce or increase, in this positive case, the occupation among some of the most vulnerable groups such as young people, which is in some way already being implemented in Europe in many countries – by the way, with liberal governments – and which serves to ensure workers' labour rights and at the same time to reduce or increase, in this positive case, the occupation among some of the most vulnerable groups such as the young, is not it? On other points that have been discussed here. I believe that the RED mechanism also has much to wish for, in this case I think it is better, and that the current model of ERTIt is precisely what it does that it makes it easier for this job flexicurity that is being defended in Europe, so it can continue to be maintained. And I think the RED mechanism does what it does is, a little bit, turn into more rigid strategies that companies can have when it comes to placing or generating jobs or jobs. About the SOC, I think we're also talking..., we've talked enough, I'm not going to waste much time on it. It doesn't work; it definitely doesn't. We need to change its structure. And on labor inspection, three-quarters of the same thing. We, as Liberals, will support this motion, as we did, out of responsibility too, last week in Congress. And only one question, in this case to VOX, which has therefore made a defense of the no. I think you need to think about it. First they can criticize a model or what has been done in Congress, but they must propose an alternative. I think the alternative... I haven't heard it, or at least I haven't seen it. And remember always that they voted with Esquerra Republicana, with Junts per Catalunya and with Bildu in Madrid. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.189.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Eva Parera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.190.0	Yes, thank you, President. That the mic didn't work for me. You see, the young lady isn't the one who brings great things. We talk a lot about strengthening, strengthening and strengthening, but it's also not that you bring a text that's often worked out. The leader of the Socialist Party has begun the intervention talking about a labor reform that has qualified as a text of great importance. Home, it seems to me that talking about this job reform with a text of great importance is exaggerating, as little, enough, but enough. Because in the end, do not deceive us, the Government of the State repealed the reform of 2012 because, according to Minister Yolanda Díaz, "the right had put a labor model of precariousness, and we will reform, yes or yes, whoever falls, resists who resists. So in the end, I know hard, no derogation or nothing. Why? Because in the end one thing is populism and the other is the reality of day-to-day management. And the European Union is pressing. And the European Union is pressing and telling them that here they have a work reform of 2012 that has worked, that it is a good work reform, that has generated work places, and that in the end you, therefore, what they do is to take it, make it up a little – because, of course, we are going to repeal it to keep the same, so something had to be done – and they are doing a little bit of tweaking. And so they say a reformulated text of great scale. So no. I'm very sorry, no. The 2012 reform gave very good results. Let us hope, indeed, that this job reform will continue to yield much good results, because we really need it, because there are still many people in ERTOS and because there are still many companies that do not know whether to close their doors or not because of the economic crisis in the next five years. And, therefore, much work remains to be done. One point: peppers are the great oblivions in this labor reform. And, in fact, the consensus has lasted very little with all social workers, because today they announce the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage, without employers. And if businesses are looking, they're looking for the job. And if you're looking for the occupation, you're looking for the tickets, not just from the families but from the state. Therefore, wish a lot of luck, that this job reform worked very well. And we have announced different votes in the different points of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.191.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word deputy Tonia Batlle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.192.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, councillor. While the pandemic has very directly affected the labor market, we see a positive seal. Last week, as the Councillor told us yesterday, we learned that the Catalan economy grew by 5.9_per_cent in 2021. Sense of doubt, good news that we are on the path of economic recovery and, consequently, of the labour market. When we talk about the labour market, we are talking about many problems: the youthful environment, the wage gap, the precariousness, the temporality... The motion you have presented speaks about some concrete aspects: the reorganization of the SOC, the inspection of work, labor reform and dialogue with the agents. For us, an important aspect is the reorganization of the SOC, but we put emphasis on its transformation. Why? So because this body has already suffered various reorderings without this assuming a substantial better of its service. We are talking about transforming, therefore, into the sense of the affectation of your goals and forms of work, as well as opening up services with new public-private forms. We agree that a more agile, dynamic SOC that responds to the real needs of workers in Catalonia should be enhanced at a time of constant change and product texture reformulation. This cannot, therefore, be left in a statement of intent as has happened other times. It is a decisive and renewing action that I have allowed to participate in the business fabric and in a sectorized way. At present, we find that a twenty-i-four percent of businesses are found to be unable to increase or, say so, unable to grow due to lack of qualified personnel. And that happens in most sectors. And that's what it takes to give him an answer. They also talk about dialogue with social workers and about labour reform. All right, let's talk to him. Let me put emphasis on your young lady, socialists, because we're in front of a young lady who starts talking about dialog, yes. Literally he says: "Defence of the dialog as a tool to achieve agreements. We agree. I will tell you one thing, for this reason: the dialog does not write to the motions, but it is practical. And you show us the day and the day and the law. What dialect have they practiced in the law of residue? What dialect have they practiced in the law of audiovisuals? Or with the distribution of European funds? I'm telling you, obviously, with Catalonia, boss. Last week we approved the job reform proposed for the Socialist Party and Podemos in a very unfortunate way: with a vote and by mistake. Therefore, we cannot say that there has been a reform approved with a broad political consensus; on the contrary. A reform that does not recover any of the competitions that the PP withdrew from us and that maintained the prevalence of state labor agreements over autonomics. And in terms of dialy? So, in this social dialogue that you're talking about, Catalonia doesn't feel represented. Only the Spanish employer CEOE and the Spanish unions participated. It is a reform designed for large companies and not for the peppers, which in Catalonia represent, together with the autonomes, a 99,8_per_cent of the product fabric, almost the seventy_per_cent of the occupation and the sixty-three_per_cent of the GDP. We are in the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, our position from Juntes to Catalonia is to defend a reform that also addresses the problems of the Catalan labour market, listening to Catalan agents and actors. Therefore, we cannot give support to the point of the young person who speaks of this labor reform in which the voice of Catalan social workers has not been listened to, thus ignoring the economic and sectoral reality of Catalonia. But let me tell you one thing: we are aware that it is currently working in the law of autonomous Spanish level. It is worth remembering that the autonomes during the pandemic have pushed the quota twice and that the current assumptions are contemplated a progressive push of the quota of autonomes. They now have an opportunity to correct this way of doing and demonstrating this dialy will. Referring to this law of autonomes, they are now talking to agents who are not represented by the model of autonomes we have in Catalonia. Practice the dialog with the real sector and get the real needs of this country. This is our responsibility, and that's why we're here. Finally, I refer to the words spoken by the deputy of Junts for Catalonia at the Congress of Deputies last week, Mrs Miriam Nogueras, saying that the Spanish social dialogue does not speak Catalan. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.193.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.194.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament, thank you. I wanted to start with a previa, didn't I? We will then point out the concept of processing wages and when these processing wages... which is the importance they have and which is the reference that I made to it directly yesterday on the basis of the insecurity that generates in the workers to initiate legal proceedings when they know that there can be coercion on the part of the entrepreneur so that they accept an entry into the company or a readmission to the company to change from not paying processing salaries. And so, here's a very clear violation of your rights, and that's kept in this text. But in any case, it is clear that processing wages are an essential tool to ensure the struggle of workers' and workers' rights in our country. And this, in turn, is another element of labour reform that has been left to the cap of the oblivion, which has been left in electoral programs that are so good at the moment that it would be abrogation of a labor reform that, in the end, has been a reform of all aesthetics, insufficient and that does not help people working in all the States, that does not help people working in our country, that does not help people working in our country, that does not help people working in our country with whom we have met in this Parliament, with all the committees of undertakings with whom we have met and which have referred to us, day after day, in fact, was the first to come to us when we are talking to them, when they were at the door of the adoption of the 2010 reform, that we are in the form of the reform. [[Greetings.]] It's been a couple of years. It's been a couple of years. We're in 2022, and what we have on the table is a reform. Well, Republican Left is not in line with the reform, Republican Left will present a derogation text, will keep the derogation text from the table, because we will not give ourselves up, because we defend the interests of the working class. [[Greetings.]] Apart from this, very important: social dialogue. At the social dialogue, maximum respect – maximum respect for the social dialogue. Maximum respect for parliamentary debate – maximum respect for parliamentary debate. [[Greetings.]] The parliamentary debate is essential. And when this parliamentary debate would allow to stretch the document, the reform, the text, to stretch it to the left because there would be a majority of the left and, as very well said Pablo Iglesias, "Yolanda Díaz would accept the proposals of Esquerra Republicana to improve the conditions of the working class in the text of the labor reform... I have said Pablo Iglesias. What's the problem? The political arm of the IBEX 35. The problem is said Spanish Socialist Workers Party. [[Greetings.]] That's the problem. The problem is that In Comú Pode... The problem is that Podemos has not had the joy of facing the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the political arm of the IBEX 35, the great defenders of the CEO, to go further, because I know that with the parliamentary debate we would get much more there. Where is – where is – the recovery of the prior administrative authority? Where is the empowerment of our country's labor authority because we don't have regulatory shippers, because we don't have tankers before we can intervene? Where are we? Where's the fight against corporatism? Gentlemen, this job reform is exactly what you see that we have lost our class consciousness, our working class consciousness. This labor reform that eternalizes is the model of the PP. If you've just told me your MP! The Member of Parliament has just said to me: "You have shielded the PP's labour standards mark. Well, congratulations, but they don't count on us. We will put it from the table and continue to persist and insist. We want a reform that derogates the more harmful aspects that were implemented in the year 2010 and 2012. There is no other way out; there is only this: a derogation from the most harmful aspects that were implemented with the 2010 work reforms of the PSOE, of 2012 of the PP. And this is the proposal that we're going to keep from the table: compensation, recovery on forty-five days... Why haven't they been as brave with labor reform as they have been with the minimum wage? Why did they approve the minimum wage without the support of the employer and refuse to do so with labour reform? Why did they not want to keep the firmness that they have shown today with the labor reform and stretch it in the parliamentary debate to achieve more victories for the working class, instead of lowering the head before the pressures of CEO, before the pressures of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol? Why didn't they do it? If they had the support to do it! We were there! And when we're here, we'll be waiting for them, because we're already here. We are already here to defend the rights of the working class, to defend precisely the places of work and to avoid, once and for all, the loss of places of work in our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.195.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to take a long time to get the 23rd item on the order of the day. [[Motion following the government's inquiry into the Squad's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[302-00085/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress presented. To give us the presentation, Mr. Ramon Swordler has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.196.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time, far too long surely, that we are talking about the Mossos from the political and mass perspective, often from a partisan perspective. We come from a long history that we have already passed, but in particular we present this young man with an inquiry that we wanted to do just the previous plenary in relation to which were the reasons explaining some changes, to think our inexplicable, to the dome of the Cos de Mossos. It changed the head of the body and we said that there is absolutely nothing here to say, it has to merit the confidence of the counselor and, therefore, it is accepted. But from here all the other changes, up to thirty-six, are difficult, not to say impossible, justification. And of all these changes we have been surprised by one in a very particular way, which is that of the chief of staff responsible for the General Commission for Criminal Investigation. Because we want to say, we have said this before, we know all the Members and Members, he carried sensitive investigations in the political field, both of whom now hold the presidency of the Parliament, on condition that he is responsible for the Institute of Catalan Letters, or for the same advisor who held the department at the time he was being investigated, Councillor Buch, or who he was president of Lleida's Diputation, etc. And we are surprised that in the raons it is said... first, that it is faith in the minute zero, that it was the first notification of changes that made the new head of the body. But, according to him, it is said: "It is a problem of style. Clearly, we were left with a perplexed point, that for a directional style, therefore, a head of a unit as sensitive as this is taken. But it turns out that information has appeared at the level of communication media, and that we have obviously come close to the problem of contrasting. The counselor himself at the time said, "No, a good surgeon can be a good surgeon," he said, "he does his job very well," but it may not be useful to be a director of the hospital. And it turns out that we later learned, therefore, that in the scoring system to which all the moves on the part of their superiors are attached, and that they are evaluated up to two different aspects and in the case of the commands they add three more related to the commanding skills and abilities, then, Antonio Rodríguez, on a possible score of up to four, suns the one of 3.8. And, paradoxically, in the three concrete areas that are asked for his command..., if he motivates his work team enough, I get a four_over_four from his superiors; if he is compromised with the organization, I get a 4.4 from his superiors in a plural value; and if he interacts adequately with the rest of the services of the organization, I get a four_over_four. Therefore, we do not explain ourselves from the point of view of how this generates a network, a replacement, which is said to be due to stylistic questions, which is said to be due to a lack of leadership. Counselor, we want to make it very clear: he's a good surgeon and he's a good hospital director. And what you've done is send a good surgeon and a good hospital director to a territorial commissioner, who deserves all the respect and consideration of the world, obviously, but it's confusing the knowledge of this person, his experience and his leadership ability. Not because a member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units says so, their commands are said to be in an assessment. But there's more. After this assessment, when there are extreme positions, whether they stand at zero as if they stand at four, there is a review, because it was not someone who had a mania or an overstatement of command, even though they are plural, and that is correct. And this review, therefore, did not undermine this qualification. Therefore, we cannot believe in any way that this stuff has been done for a simple question of style. And we go to the Major: we worry, and very much, and that is why we consider this Plenary the possible restitution. Let them explain to us first who are the real causes, because those who have told us not to do so – let me hide it – and that this command is returned to the place of command where it was, at its full service, that it is impeccable from all of these perspectives, not because a parliamentary group says so, but because their commands say so. And we also add a last point, that it is not a minor person, that it is the reprobation of an attitude that the department held, from our unacceptable perspective in a democratic environment, that it is to prevent a TV3 journalist from watching a press round or a find that is ugly with journalists. Asking what journalists can come and what is not an attitude, from our perspective, reprehensible, and that is why we pose it to consideration also of the conjunct of the chamber. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.197.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, for the defense of the papers presented, has in the first place the word Mrs Mercè Esteve, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.198.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs... A few days ago we found ourselves before the appearance of Councillor Elena to give explanations about the changes in the Department of Interior; changes that, since our parliamentary group, we have made clear that they were licit at an early stage of the legislature, given that they had objectives and guidelines pronounced for the new Department of Interior; changes that our own Councillor Elena recognized that he and President Pere Aragonès only knew. So, we, together for Catalonia, expressed loud and clear that we trusted him, once we had met with the Councillor. And we did recognize that the decisions taken by the council, as well as those taken by the other councils of this government, obey the betterment, the enrichment, the reinforcement, in this case, of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, and considering our loyalty as travel companions, in order to achieve the strategies and objectives that the council was marking on this first full road. We believe that the changes are good and necessary for all organizations to face us back and obey the achievement of our projects. Therefore, we do not understand this persistence, especially of the Socialist Party, of constantly questioning every step that the Councillor does, in this case the Internal one, questioning the responsibility and compromises that each department and its political leaders, democratically chosen, have an obligation to direct and manage in order to carry out the identified files in each legislative term. Or was it that Mr. Swordler didn't make a change in his mandate when he was at the Interior Council? Because we know that there have been changes in the command structure of the transport division, in the technical security division and in the commission of the district of Ciutat Vella. Isn't that right? And we're not talking about your counterparts in Madrid, who made the changes they wanted. Mr. Fernando Grande-Marlaska, I have been reviewing the information and, in concrete terms, the current Minister of Interior of the PSOE, Mr. Fernando Grande-Marlaska, has been reviewing the changes that he has made, without respecting the escalation and antiquity that the Civil Guard says he has always respected in the election of the charges, removing the Head of Command of Madrid, Colonel Diego de los Cobos, as head of the Judicial Police, reminded Catalonia as the coordinator of the charges of the 1st of October against the Catalans, and placing the number seven and the new number of the list of the escalation without respect for the law, nor for the law, before, and only by political or popular decision "purchased from the Lord Marlaska, all of whom was the Governor of the Interior of the Dominican Republic, an officer of the Council of the Interior of the Slovak Republic, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council, a member of the Security Council of the Security Council of the Security Council, a Therefore, much defending and demanding the stagnation of investigations, and your group, the PSC, is allowed freedom to do as it does and what it wants with the desired and bound stagnation. Or does the PSC question the separation of powers now? Because, as far as we're concerned, it's the judiciary that decides and dictates any cause, isn't it? Or maybe you're questioning the professionalism of the Squad's Body, thinking who's done the work so far has done better than who's going to do it now? I have already told the Committee on the Interior, members of the PSC, and then reminded them of Councillor Elena in this very Chamber: a lot to say that someone is being purged, and the worst purge that has ever been practiced for you, the PSC, the PP and a few more, and it has been against Catalonia, with the application of Article 155. And I end with these words from one of the books of Àlex Rovira, which says: "With the stones that you draw from me, I build the squids that they carry to my house. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.199.0	Now has the word Lluïsa Llop, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.200.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor Elena. We are debating today about a motion presented to the Socialist Group that what ends up being implemented is whether or not we trust the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and, in particular, its commands. Unfortunately, we are ahead of more action than they are doing to politicize all the debate around the Squad Coast and that the only one they do – and we have repeated it repeatedly – is harming the property, constantly questioning it. And, moreover, they do this before a project that encapsulates the Department of the Interior, but which is accompanied by many groups of this chamber to transform the body, vertebrate the necessary changes to restructure it organizationally, feminizing it, deepening the concept of police proximity and linked to the territory, extreme transparency; a more technological thing and that can face the backs of the nine types of crimes. In short, to transform the body to do it, even more, the police that you will see in order to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, especially of people in a vulnerable situation, into a police model that assembles as much as possible to that citizenry that is aspiring to represent and serve. When you begin to read the motion presented, you think something has changed and you can only share the first point of the group proposing when you fencing that it is the power of the person holding the Department of Interior to designate the head of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Actually, it's the owner of the Department of Interior to do it. Next thing we know, we're no longer doing so well, because we absolutely share the fact that the commanding group of the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos exercises its task with professionalism, rigour and independence. Now, we don't share that, at all times, the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. And let's remember that we're not talking about a police officer only in court, but we're talking about an integral police force. And from the third point we're already in front of a young man who's trying to stage a non-existent witch hunt, talking about asking for explanations – the real ones, of course, tell us – or saying that the cease-fire motivators explained until exhaustion for the councillor and the head of Mossos d'Esquadra do not respond to the truth, they want to extend a number of doubts and innuendos about the commands of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And that's why, from the Republican Left Group, we've presented a whole series of papers. I'm not going to pass them all on, but I am going to do it to one that's not accepted and that costs us a lot to hear why it hasn't been accepted. I'm talking point five. We are proposed that the head of the Ceased General Commission of Criminal Investigation has conducted investigations into cases of alleged political corruption of prominent members of one of the parties that are part of the current government. Here we go, all right. But they add: "What projects even more doubts into the roots of its replete. We proposed to them: we do not generate shadows, we do not generate doubts about the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra and its commands, but we finish this sentence saying: "And we are sure that whoever will carry out the investigation will continue in the same line and with the same rigour, given the professionalism of the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In fact, you say it yourself in your second point. And so, we don't understand why they don't accept this question and want to continue to sow this doubt. If we all agree that any member of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of their commands, will act with this rigour, professionalism and independence, we do not understand why it generates shadow of doubt when it replaces this person. It seems impossible to us. Therefore, we are convinced and trust that this will be so. And we are sure that all the changes that have been made to face this new stage of the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. But it's that, besides, it's nothing that you don't make your own deputy who presents the young man when he was a counselor. But it's that, besides, what motive could have the game, the only game besides this chamber, that carries ninety years of history without a corruption case to its files; which they can't say the other games before: they can't say the PSC and, obviously, they can't say Union, if it's hours before they're still here. So they don't have any sense of these shadows that they're planting at us. What interest do you think we could have? That is why, from the Republican Left, we reiterate our recognition for the agents and agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and, in particular, for their commands. And we give you the words that you say to your second point, which are: "The set of commands of the Squadron Sight exercises with professionalism, rigour and independence its task. That is why we have no doubt that those who occupy these places will do so with the same professionalism, rigour and independence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.201.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.202.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, look, today it is up to us again this afternoon to denounce, for the umpteenth time, that there has been a very serious event here. A purge of police commanders has been carried out here to cover up cases of political corruption affecting separatist parties. Here they have turned their heads in an attempt to control the Mossos d'Esquadra politically, and here, in the end, a docile and submissive police dome has been set up, instead of a police dome that protects the work of the police and, more importantly, that protects judicial investigations from political interference. And there are clear indications that these political pressures have occurred and to which the adviser has not given a convincing response. He didn't give it in the interpellation, he didn't give it in the Interior Commission. And I will highlight two that have already come out today in this plenary session. One is that Mr. Estela, the new chief commissioner of the Mossos d'Esquadra, would not take more than twenty-four hours to fulminate the head of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation. Even twenty-four hours he waited to evaluate his work, because the decision had already been made in advance and because the decision either had been made in advance, as I say, or was imposed on him by his political leaders, which would be even more serious. And secondly, that the head of the Commissariat General de Investigación Criminal, Mr Rodríguez, had to come and ask the Superior Court of Justice of Catalonia for help, because he saw that he could be removed from his investigations, because he saw that he was pressured to filter judicial information to the department and that a judge, who is an external authority, an independent and objective authority, grants him that protection is an obvious sign that these political pressures existed. This is something unprecedented and of an absolutely extraordinary gravity. And the counselor has intended to dispatch this issue, of enormous gravity and political significance, saying that the reason for this purge is a matter of leadership style and that the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps must be feminized. And, look, we don't believe it. By the way, since Mr Elena is here today, I will tell you what it means to feminize for VOX. Feminizing is to protect the ninety-five-year-old who on January 21 was brutally raped by a sub-Saharan in Figueres; a sub-Saharan who, not content with violating the, sexually assaulted her a second time using her fist and forearm and who has caused her very serious internal injuries. And once again – and there are already countless cases – thanks to this policy of open doors to illegal immigration that brings us the best of every house. Feminizing is stopping and it is that the life sentence falls to the savages who on November 1 raped a 16-year-old girl in Igualada; they have already spent a hundred_one_days and still camp their wide in our streets. Feminizing is, in short, making policies that make our grandmothers, our daughters and any woman in Catalonia go out without fear of being sexually assaulted. That, for us, is to end this scourge, to protect women and to feminize society. [[Some applause.]] But going back to the question of this motion, we are going to vote in favour of most of its points, because we believe that the explanations given to justify this purge of police officers are a smokescreen and because we think that what has happened in the General Commission of Criminal Investigation is absolutely embarrassing. It turns out that the Mossos are investigating people who belong to one of the two parties that make up the government, to Junts per Cat – to President Borràs, to the former councillor Mr Buch – and what does the department do? Then to decapitate the research team, to remove from the middle those who know the research as a whole – in their lines of work, their plots, their derivatives – who has all the pieces of the puzzle in his head. And that's a bit embarrassing and blushing, Mr. Elena, and you should open the front pages of the mainstream media, if these weren't ultra-subsidized media by the Generalitat. And, look, in short, his explanations seem to us insufficient and imprecise. We see nepotism and the placement of likes in some appointments, we see partisan interests and a strong smell of corruption behind those investigations that have been torpedoed by the Government. And that is why we have called for the creation of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, together with PP and Citizens, to try to shed light where you only sow doubts and suspicions and to reach the end on this issue of such serious and scandalous corruption. And to Mrs Mercè Esteve, of Junts per Cat, who always invokes Article 155, I would say that 155 would have had to last two decades in order to be able to restore normalcy in Catalonia, and, on the other hand, perhaps we would have saved ourselves the cases of corruption of her party, which are precisely those cases that were intended to be covered by these changes, these reliefs in the police dome. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.203.0	Mr Macián, I will repeat it every time I pass: associating crime with immigration is a lack of respect for a very important part of Catalonia's citizenship and [[applause perlongats]] Therefore, it is an attempt to suppress social cohesion, incite racism and promote xenophobia, and we will not allow it in the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you. [[You see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you ……]] On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Xavier Pellicer has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.204.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. In the morning they complain about what they say, and in the late morning they give reason to these words with their racist and xenophobic comments. [[Greetings.]] So you have to complain. And if they don't want them to define themselves as they do, they don't act this way, that maybe it's impossible. That said, we reviewed the PSC's motion, and we didn't see what was going on. What are we talking about? What policies do you want to do in the Interior? What do they propose? I don't see a proposal here that respects what. For us the important is not who is major of the Mossos, but what political apply the Mossos. For another band, see point 2 which refers to this absolute independence of the performance of the commands. And yesterday we saw, for example, right? , and it was reported, that the group of violent extremists was investigating the housing movement by order of the prefecture. It seems to me that this is not an example of independent and legally regulated performance and performance on the one hand, as at the very least, of the command of the Squad's Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra. But as it seems they don't care what politics they do, they just come to talk about who, surely, is because things changed and, above all, to make sure that things continue to go exactly the same way they have gone so far. And here we won't be found. Here we will not be able to find ourselves, because we are working and we will continue to work because there are the necessary changes to be made to the interior, which must not be many, which must be given an absolute turn. We wear a few days in which news of bad police practices, of bad police actions, of political use of the Mosos to pursue social movements, to pursue parties, even, that we are represented here. And that can't go on like this, that can't tolerate it going on like this. Now, it seems they have no interest in putting the focus on these questions. From here we see, through this action absolutely without lack of going to what – and only to whom – and without any political setting of foundations, to whom they are giving away. Who are they giving away? We saw him a while ago. Therefore, we will vote against your young lady. It seems to me that... if they want to, we're discussing what, we're talking about who the policies of the Interior are, we're talking about who their priorities are and who they're responsible for who they think they should be, who they should be. Maybe the same ones and how did it work in the Can Lives dislocation a few years ago, when you were an Interior Advisor? Are these the policies that have to be made of the Interior? Is that how to approach the protest? We don't have the right people, and they'll find us on the front. Therefore, we will not follow the game with these motions, we will not follow the game of not wanting to talk about what, to love the one who, rerere the polemic, of, through this polemic, to give to the extreme right and, therefore, to settle in that block in which above all I did not change anything, especially that there is no new policy. Don't you think you need to change the insides? Does it look perfect to you how the Interior works? Do they think there were no problems with performance, lack of professionalism? Today there was the Maximum, who had a trial at the provincial hearing, to which eight years of imprisonment for a false attestation were asked. This guy ended up in prison and ended up with a one-year and nine-month prison sentence, probably for the pressure and for this eight-year petition. At the same time, a video was published that was part of the judicial instruction in which it is clearly seen as the attestation of the agents who were detained was absolutely false. Doesn't that concern you, gentlemen and gentlemen of the PSC? Because we haven't heard them talk at any time about these issues that are absolutely relevant to us. Nor do they worry that it is criminal and persecuting the movement for habitation? Is that why there shouldn't be a change in the interior? They think it's not a big deal? Because we didn't hear them talking about this, in any case. Well, in short, we'll vote that this young man didn't. We think that the investigation and the information there is a difficult problem in the squadron moss and that there are profound changes. And what's not important to us is what's important to us. And it's what needs to be transformed from now on, as we explained yesterday. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.205.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.206.0	Thank you, President. Well, we present this young man that we understand to be derived, therefore, from some decisions that the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Elena, took, for which we asked explanations that were produced in the Commission of the Interior. Some of the explanations that we were not satisfied with, as we do not share the decisions in themselves. And, therefore, already the advances, therefore, that we will give support to most points of this young man. Not everyone. And I'm starting with the point where we're going to abstain, which is point 2. We will abstain from point 2 because the Mosses do not have excellent professionals, who have them; not because the great majority of agents and commanders do not do their job well, who do so; but because what you place at this point is an acritic inscription to any decision and to any action, for the simple fact that all commands act, according to you, with professionalism, rigour and independence. And, man, they see many of the police actions we've seen in the past few years here in Catalonia by Mosso d'Esquadra – also by other police bodies, as you all know, but also by Mosso d'Esquadra –; they see the actions, many disproportionate actions of Brimo and ARRO units in multiple denominations along these years, months, days and weeks; they also see the ideological lists of the intelligence brigade. See all this, we think something's wrong. It's not all right at the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And, therefore, we believe that changes in the body are taking place. Yeah, we're sharing it with the councilman who's calling for change. Among other things, therefore, because we need to feminize the body, because we need our police to assemble in society. And there are also organizational changes to cope with the great challenges that we believe our police have today, which are, for a gang, democratizing the body and reducing the abuse of the force we have seen on numerous occasions. Therefore, they are changing to ensure this democratisation of the body. We also need to cross-reference security policies. There is also greater coordination with local police. All this requires organizational changes and this is not what has been done at the moment. We hope, therefore, that the Department of the Interior will approach these changes and make them real. But the moment they brought us over the table and the moment they brought us to this young man today, it's just a change of names. The counselor told us he was doing it to have a plural leadership with greater parity. Celebrate, huh? So, this step from the god to twenty-five percent of women in the prefecture. But, of course, the vast majority of changes that have been seen with names are man by man: Trapero per Estela, Rodríguez per Chacón – man by man. We don't come here to discuss, in any case, the names. We're not here to argue either... the counselor obviously has the competence to appoint the prefecture of the body. That's not what we're talking about. What we were discussing a few weeks ago and we're still discussing today is the form, the opportunity and the lack of explanation. We believe that the necessary explanations have not been given. And I also need it... because it's true that in less than three years we've had three counselors who came to us, who changed the dome of the body, remodeled it, all of them saying they were starting a new stage. And all this without there being a government of change, but there has been a government of continuity. And they tell us, in addition, that it is customary to change the maximum head of the Research Commissioner General. So look, I don't think it's good that there's so many changes in the body, it's not good because there have been five different heads in just four years, and it's not reasonable that in one year the head of the Commission of Inquiry has been changed three times. And now four. Therefore, we understand that this is not reasonable. We don't have any justification, we don't have any justification. The reason is to replace Rodriguez for Chacón. And these changes, whether we say it or not, are not produced outside the historical and political context in which we are. And it's true that these changes are produced in a context that is no less. And the corruption cases under investigation that were there at this time are not irrelevant. And, therefore, we believe that the change to the Commissioner-General for Research that has taken place is not appropriate. And finally, we will also vote, obviously, that it is at the last point of the motion, which is what makes reference to the interferences of the Department of Interior, for which it does the attendance of certain journalists in informational contacts. And we're sorry that this keeps happening, because it's not the first time that it's happening; not under this advice, but with Councilman Buch. When the results of the major audit of history were presented, so we also saw how access to certain journalists was forbidden, which we believe should not be produced in a democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.207.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.208.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of my first intervention in this House to make a call to the assembly of the city of Catalonia to collaborate with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to find the Judit, a young disset year who disappeared past dissabte, on the 5th, in Sarria. And if anyone has any information, it's put in contact with the Squad Mosses through 112, as soon as possible. And going to the police station. This motion is directly related to the change of the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, half a year after Councillor Elena took over the Department of Interior, and also to the purge that has apparently been made in the dome of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, with a direct involvement in the fight against corruption. When this matter broke out, some media pointed to an adjustment of accounts with the greatest Trapero, the once undisputed hero for the separatist parties, who fell into disgrace after his statement in the trial followed by the Supreme Court against some of the leaders of the coup against democracy, the attempted coup d'état perpetrated by the Government of the Generalitat itself in September and October 2017. Knowing the cloth, this approach is nothing out of the ordinary. It has been or has not been an adjustment of accounts with the greatest Trapero, the reality is that, for the first time in a long time, the Councillor of Interior has been forced to give explanations in this regard after making a decision that is his responsibility, which is the relief at the head of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra. It is the power of the head of the Department of the Interior and, in this case, of the councillor Elena to appoint the person who will hold the headship of the Mossos. And, logically, this appointment, that appointment, must also be based, albeit not only, on a matter of trust towards the person who will perform the position. Nothing to object beyond that this fact has aroused all kinds of suspicions reflected in the media; suspicions between the political class, but also among some members of the Generalitat Police. So much so that Councillor Elena himself asked to appear to explain the reasons for the relief and try to calm the waters. In view of what has been seen – that two motions will be seen today in this plenary that, to a greater or lesser extent, deal with this issue –, it has not finished achieving what, at least between the parliamentary groups of the PSC-Units, which is presenting this motion, and that of Ciutadans, as you know, a motion that will be discussed after this one. It is not questionable that the Councillor of the Interior has all the legitimacy to make the decisions regarding the relief of the leadership of the Mossos. But the councilman himself should recognize that it is understandable that, from the opposition, given the changes made, the moment chosen and the fact that one of the removed is nothing more and nothing less than the head of the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, a police unit that is investigating several cases of corruption that affect especially one of the parties cohabiting in the Government of the Generalitat, these changes are seen as a possible adjustment of accounts or as an exchange of chromosomes between Esquerra and Junts. The effort of Councillor Elena has been commendable, but we continue with the fly behind the ear, concerned about the apparent partisan use that is being made and is willing to continue doing of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is particularly concerned about the system of selection, training and access to the executive and higher levels. Some scales that, in the eyes of many agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, have acquired, over time, an endogamic character. It may sound exaggerated, but that's what some people think. I'd say many. In any case, too many – not to be entirely true – agents of the body. In fact, I'm already announcing a question that I'm going to put to the register today. How many members of the executive and higher ranks have accessed directly from outside the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps or from any of the security forces and bodies? How many citizens, without any connection with the security forces and bodies, have acceded to the executive or higher scales in accordance with legally established procedures? How many have tried, over the years, since the enactment of Law 10/1994, of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra, to the categories of inspector i/ or intendant without belonging to the body itself or to any of the other security forces and bodies? We will see what the response of the Department of the Interior is, but I am very afraid that it will be the finding that the endogamous character that some, many, too many agents denounce corresponds to reality. In any case, focusing exclusively on the motion that we are now debating and which is being tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the PSC i Units per Avançar, I announce to you the favourable vote of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans on most of its points, except for point nine, which has really been sweetened after accepting the amendments tabled by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.209.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, now has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.210.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Before we begin with the motion, I would like to make a preliminary statement, because there are Members who come and use this rostrum to say genuine barbarities. And I mean Mr Pellicer, of the CUP, who came here not only to insinuate, but to state directly that the Mossos d'Esquadra make false attestations. I hope you'll pull back from this. And if you do not retract this, I ask you to be brave, to renounce your immunity and to repeat what you have said again. Because it's very easy to say real barbarities knowing you're sheltered and that absolutely nothing is going to happen to you. Be brave, give up your immunity and repeat what you said. Well, focusing already on the subject of the motion, look, Mr. Elena – we are talking about it already in committee – these changes that you have made in the dome of Mossos d'Esquadra are a purge in every rule. And the proof of that is that you have not been able to explain what they obey and have given us excuses of all kinds. There is a point in the motion calling for explanations. You have had every opportunity – on radio, on television, in this Parliament, in committee – and you have never offered a clear version of the facts. Mrs Llop said: "What interest can we have? Well, it's very clear: that of politicizing and controlling the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. You first told us that there was a new stage in the body; we don't know where that new stage is headed. Then he also told us that these changes were intended to advance in the feminization of the body, which I have already asked you to please not to use this struggle of women again, which is costing us so much to be able to reach according to which positions of responsibility, to explain these changes within the dome, which is moreover that they fall by their own weight. If you have changed a man for another man. If we had Major Trapero and now we have Major Estela, and we had Mayor Rodriguez and now we have Mayor Chacón. Where is the feminization of the body? Can't you see that these excuses fall by their own weight? You also later told us that you wanted to put the most appropriate people at the front; "people with leadership skills," he told us. Well, Lieutenant Rodriguez, who is one of the purges, received the best notes in the internal evaluation of the commanders. It's another bad payer's excuse, Mr. Elena. Toni Rodríguez, who was in charge of the Investigation Division until you purged him, was responsible for some of the most relevant corruption investigations to date, such as the case involving the President of Parliament, Mrs Borràs, who we know is charged with the crimes of embezzlement, prevarication, documentary falsity and fraud against the Administration during her stage at the head of the Catalan Letters Institution. Lieutenant Rodríguez had to receive legal aid to continue the investigations that affected this case, precisely because of the political pressure he received in this investigation. And I also think that we will all remember how Mrs Borràs joyfully explained on TV3 that the Home Secretary himself, who at the time was Mr Buch, had told him that there was nothing against him; that I, this of revealing, therefore, police investigations to the investigated person in question, the truth is that I would be squeezing, Mr Elena – I would be squeezing a lot. I think it's all very random. What a coincidence that precisely to which you have relegated from office is Mr Rodríguez, who also investigated other causes of corruption directly related also to independence, such as, for example, the case of three-per-cent, which we have also known, because, in recent weeks, information that is serious; information that is serious and that affects, for example, producer Triacom, which apparently sold allegedly programmes to TV3 far above the cost of production. Where was this cost overrun going? Well, according to the police report, to pay bills covering expenses related to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. Come on, a corporate network to issue fake bills, to defraud the estate, and to get black money. What have you done with the person in charge of this laborious investigation? Remove it and send it to a police station in Rubí, which you called a challenge. Come on, as if we don't know here what you're going to the movie about, Mr. Elena. The head of Anti-Corruption also investigated other striking cases, such as the Belgian escort of the fugitive from justice, which is also pending trial, or also the case of corruption resulting from alleged bribes to the former president of the Lleida Chamber. I..., you said that the changes are due to a new stage within the body, because seeing the panorama we have here, I don't know exactly where you want to head that new stage. Another of the defenestrates has also been the greatest Traper. You were saying, weren't you? , which – they have remembered before – sometimes the best surgeon cannot be the head of the hospital. Well, we all know the discrepancies that you keep and that you keep with Mr. Trapero. Therefore, I say to you again: do not excuse us and explain the truth to us. Because I insist, Mr. Elena, that you yourself – yourself – boast that the Mossos must be politicized. Therefore, these changes are political changes and do not depend on the merits or professionalism of the members of the body. And I insist that I refer to his own statements, where he said that, of course, policies must mark the direction of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. So Mrs. Llop already has her answer here. What you intend to do is to do with the command of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.211.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.212.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, it's worth saying that we have accepted some of the papers that the governing groups have proposed to us, because in a way, so we understand that they are improving the text. To go beyond political corruption..., but other forms of corruption; in this we absolutely agree. We are absolutely in agreement to grade the increase in the effects of the fight against corruption, even if the counselor..., made us feel – perhaps we did not understand it – that it was a decision already to execute, and now they say to us: "No, we will do it gradually. But in any case, they do it – they do it. The sooner we start, the better. But we can't accept a point that we consider, that they refuse to say: "Select, if indeed from the investigation, if indeed from the whole process of deduction, it is clear that the network of the intendant responsible for the General Commission of Criminal Investigation, therefore, has been a wrong one because it meets other criteria that they have nothing to do with what they have said, because feminization does not glue, because rejoining does not glue – its network is a man and more is a little bigger than it– and because the commanding skills, for which we finish seeing, neither glue, therefore, man, return. We've put this down and it's up to us, so they're trying to make a move to make it go away. And one last thought a little down from what's been going on. And here it's said that if it's to be kept, I don't know what kind of police or who else. I say it very honestly, counselor: the one I think it gives to the extreme right, the one I honestly think it gives to the extreme right, is to buy in a very acritic way the dictates and the way that the CUP marks it. Because there's a lot of people who don't understand it, inside the body and outside the body. And this is a reflection, if I may, beyond the political parties, which, like democrats, we should also do: we expect to follow certain mandates, to break the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. That it's legitimate for the UPC to do it here, because it has enough votes to do it, but it counts, because it's decentrant. And as democrats we also need to reflect: if it is not exactly what gives to the extreme right that we have in this Parliament and that we do not want to see in many assemblies, and that makes us suffer much that can come to the proper municipal elections. Therefore, the police must firmly exercise their responsibility if they are to be brought to justice or if they are to be commanded by the police. And here we ask you, counselor, that you do not condescend with certain theses that are put to you and that I do not abandon the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to your fate. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.213.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will take place after the substance of the twenty-three point on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the exercise of the competence of public security]] [[302-00087/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-two, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the exercise of public safety competence. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and to expose it has the word of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.214.0	Thank you, President. Councillor... This government, as its predecessors have done in recent legislatures, repeatedly complains that the Mossos d'Esquadra are continuously present in the political debate. That is because this Government, like its predecessors, has used and continues to use the institutions of the Generalitat at its will. Among his repeated bad practices is undoubtedly the politicization of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. That is so, always denying the largest and accusing opposition parties of using the political ones, of putting them in the eye of the hurricane. But, look, counselor, the eye of the hurricane owns it, it's called the Interior Department of the Government of the Generalitat. It is the Government and the parties that support it, whether or not they form part of that Government, that continually put the Mossos in the eye of a hurricane that is a consequence of the disloyalty of the Government of the Generalitat and the Department of the Interior with the entire citizens of Catalonia. There is nothing more to do than to go around the headquarters of the Department of the Interior to see its absolute lack of neutrality and the institutional abuse that reflects the separatist symbolism that is displayed there without indecentness. The Mossos have a sufficiently wide track since its expansion and deployment began in the eighties of the last century, so that the necessary reforms for full approval with the rest of the security forces and bodies would have been undertaken. The current government, as its predecessors did, has repeatedly announced a new law on police in Catalonia. We agree that a new law on police in Catalonia is needed, as is a new organic law on security forces and bodies. Both the Law 10/1994 of the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra and the Organic Law 2/1986 of security forces and bodies need a thorough review. Both must go in the same direction, and of course complement each other in terms of the fit of all the forces and security forces in the Spanish police model. Much remains to be done, and much must be done from the General Courts. But this motion focuses on what, in the opinion of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Government of the Generalitat should begin to do to improve the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. I take it that the parliamentary groups supporting the Government will tear their clothes, but there is much room for improvement, and this motion aims to contribute, to the extent possible, to making that improvement effective. First, to draft a law on the police career that establishes with the utmost transparency the systems and procedures of selection, internal promotion, access to the profession and destination of the members of the body. Second, and immediately, review and update the regulatory procedure for the access, selection and training processes of members of the executive and higher levels, so that inspectors, intendants and commissioners receive training that is effectively comparable to that of their counterparts in the State security forces and bodies. Third, to update the training programmes of the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia – much needs to be done, believe me. Fourthly, review the procedures for internal promotion of access to the executive and higher scales, and for promotion and designation of the destination of inspectors, stewards and commissioners. These procedures have edges, such as personal interviews or the resolution of practical cases, which lack transparency and objectivity that guarantee equality and the proper assessment of merit and capacity. Fifth, to safeguard the independence and functional autonomy of units with judicial police functions without the slightest glimpse of political interference. Sixth, to examine in depth the Division of Internal Affairs, whose functioning leaves much to be desired, and which seems to have become an additional instrument at the service of the political leadership to the detriment of the rights of the police. A DAI that – we are seeing in the trial of the Macedonia case – has been installed in bad practice for many years. Seventh, to ensure respect for the rights of the police when they are subject to the disciplinary regime, an old claim already debated and approved in this Parliament, but which successive governments of the Generalitat have not just implemented. And lastly – and here I make an explicit appeal to the Councillor of the Interior – to urgently review the governmental authorizations that allow the systematic cutting of the Meridian Avenue for more than two years by a group of hyperventilated people who have no other endorsement than to be from the rope of the Government of the Generalitat, and to end at once the arbitrary cuttings of a main artery of Barcelona. Leave meridian avenue at once, please. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.215.0	For the defense of the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Lord Lorena Roldán of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.216.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we are going to vote in favour of most of the points. In some of us we do not agree, and I shall now explain precisely the reasons. Regarding the first of the points, which speaks about conducting a comparative study of the career plans of the rest of the security forces and bodies, I would like to recall – and, in fact, we have already denounced it – that these working groups have already been approved and that they have been systematically paralysed by the Government of the Generalitat. One of these studies of these working groups was launched in 2013, the Government paralysed it; it rebooted in 2018, the Government paralysed it, and now, in 2021, it had started again and has not passed from the second meeting, already with you at the head, Mr Elena. Look, the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, both those of the citizen security unit and those of the specialties, must have a fair career plan, as well as other Catalan officials, such as, for example, the personnel attached to the ICS, and we find inexplicable the refusal of the department to negotiate. And besides, you just offer the rest of the budget. I don't know if when you're talking about politicizing the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, Mr. Elena, then you're talking about this too. With regard to, for example, point 3, where you are talking about asking the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia to update the training programmes, we also agree here, but what we think is generically that the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia has to do is to promote the training of all the members of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and not as it happens now, that we have to go to the payment of courses for the sum of points, for example, in competitions or promotions. And, speaking of competitions and promotions, point 4 also talks about internal promotion processes, which must be taken into account, therefore, homologated training, professional career, etc.. This is one of the points on which we are going to vote no, and I will explain it very easily to you. The overall evaluation plan as merit must be eliminated in the various general and promotional competitions. Why? Well, because it's an old-fashioned system, it's subjective, it's partial, and, besides, it's discriminatory. And you know this perfectly well, Mr. Elena. Before we talked about feminizing the body, well, this system, the so-called PGA, discriminates against pregnant women. You know there's got to be a five-hour count of actual work per year. And if, for example, one of these women has a pregnancy at risk, plus, then, plus that maternity leave..., turns out she doesn't get to those hours that are required, and the score given to her in this PGA is zero points, and with these zero points these women are affected. And you know perfectly well that there are already complaints about it and that, in addition, all the unions – all – have agreed. You once again have the merit of having joined the unions again to claim this issue. We therefore do not agree that the overall evaluation plan should be continued as a merit, and therefore what we are asking is that it should be eliminated, and that the old age and training courses provided by the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia should be taken into account for the promotion. Speaking of competitions, I would also like to talk about the transfer competitions, and I believe that in this case what should prevail is seniority and professional experience. And this already happens in other police forces, you know it perfectly well. In the case of the Foral Police of Navarre these criteria that I tell you point out a hundred_per_cent; in the case, for example, of the autonomous police of the Basque Country, ninety_per_cent; but here, in Catalonia, Mossos d'Esquadra, simply forty_and_uno_per_cent – experience and antiquity. I believe that what needs to be taken are measures that can promote family reconciliation and criteria, as I say to you, like these: antiquity and experience, which have to take precedence over other criteria such as, for example, other qualifications or knowledge of languages, which have nothing to do with the experience on the street. There are other points that also talk about the IAD, about the Internal Affairs Division, and here I would also like to stop myself, because the truth is that very serious things are happening here. It cannot be that, for example, any person arrested or investigated for an offence has more rights than the agents who are called to testify. In a confidential information, for example, they are not informed in detail of the facts by which they are called; they are not informed of the consequences thereof; they cannot access the individual's complaint or the initiating decision either; they are not provided with a copy of the file, and not even of their own statement. Acting during the disciplinary proceedings is more than the same: the officers are not called in, they are prevented from being present in the statements of the persons quoted by the instructor, etc.. It must be the legal services of the unions, in this case, that are changing on the basis of complaints and on the basis of sentences the bad practice that is carried out from the DAI. Now, in addition, recently – and you know it very well – you have been given a review by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, saying that they are violating the right to the presumption of innocence of the mossos and that they cannot enforce a sanction until there is a final judgment, which was what was happening so far. Therefore, in point 7a, which speaks precisely of the reserved information, we are also going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.217.0	Then he has the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy of the Socialist Group and Units for Forward, Mr. Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.218.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselor... this is a scattered youth, as it was... in fact, it is very connected with what the inquiry was. I, who after the counselor..., recognized me a certain disconcert, because you touched many themes; it is in his perfect right, but it reflects a very wide fan. So, we're going to position ourselves on the different themes. And, about the first block, which is the whole law project of the police career, we won't support it. We believe that there is a commitment from the government, a law from the police system, and that it must move in this direction. And, besides, this kind of legislation, in fact, would be more competition from another chamber. To some you probably put a lot of weight on them, but in any case, a law of police careers with the perspective that you most probably have more to see with the powers of the Congress of Deputies, because you intend to make comparisons and establish bridges and bridges to go one way and another with other police bodies not dependent on the Generality, but dependent on the State. Therefore, we at these points will not support it. Yes, we will... we will support point 4, in relation to internal selection and promotion processes. We are grateful that you have accepted the message we have made. Therefore, in this sense we are absolutely in agreement. Also, and enthusiastically, we will support you at the fifth point, when you ask to ensure the guarantee, independence and functional autonomy of the units that perform the functions of the judicial police. This is absolutely sacred. We have also seen it in some of the investigations that Criminal Investigation, which had to be protected by its own judicial authority before the intelligence of superiority as hierarchical as the policy of the Cos de Mossos. So, absolutely agree, here. And at that point, we'll abstain. We will not support it because we believe that the functional dependence of the Division of Internal Affairs must be outside the prefecture, it must be outside the police body, for a matter of purity, clarity, independence. You can question methods, you can value, you can also evaluate; but in any case, we don't realize that you can be under the dependency of your own police hierarchy when you have to investigate the police first. Therefore, we are well where we are, that under the dependency of the Directorate General of the Police, because it is kept separately, which entry thing has to guarantee it more independence from respect. As for the set, we'll give them support. And we would like to make some reflections on the eighth point, which is not the first time – nor, dissociatingly, I believe that, as we are, it will be the last – that we are talking about it. It's the repeated heights of the Meridiana. We believe that, in this sense, there is a leave of office on the part of the Directorate-General for Administration of Security. There was the previous legislature and I'm still feeling it now. And we think that, if it isn't, I'm gonna get the crime. One thing is to preserve the right to the manifestation that obviously has the people that are manifested every day – this is one thing – and one very different is that this right is always done on the same people, it is always done on the same day and day as the same way of circulation, and it is done to harm traders and users of this way. And that's what we think is a leave of worry. How worrying is the fact that the actions that the police have taken in these demonstrations have not resulted in any dispatch – a light still more alert. How worrying it is that the repeated and recurring reports of the Barcelona Urban Guard say: "Look, look for alternatives to this. We do not object to people being able to express themselves on the public street, but seek in any alternative case, not that we are always the same people in the use of public space, because they also have their rights, which cannot be violated every night. So they haven't done anything either. And of the reports made by the Squad's own Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Therefore, we do manifest concern. And we have the words of Professor Arbos in the later committee that we made as a police model, when he says to us: "Obviously, there is a fundamental, constitutional right that must be preserved, that is the right to the demonstration; but there is a role of the governmental authority, that is, of the Directorate General of Administration of Security, at the time of managing it, that does not prevent it. We never proposed to block the right to the demonstration of these people. What we always propose, and every day with more conviction, is that there's enough of them to do the same thing all the time in the same direction and that they always end up with the same ones, that I lay on a woman, day by day as well. And this seems to us to be out of place, and it seems to us that it may also respond to political decisions. And if that were so, we'd be out of the political arena, counselor. And we ask him once and for all... and we repeat him, and we will vote enthusiastically for this point so that he assumes his responsibilities. It is not a matter of forbidding anything, but it is a matter of preserving the right of citizens living there, of traders living there, of passers-by, of those who use a trunk road to enter and exit Barcelona, and who exercise the responsibilities they have, in the legal framework given by the General Directorate of Administration of Security, modulating these protests: they can change places, they can change hours, they can make them a cutting day and a day without cutting. Do something about it, do not permanently leave this attitude that harms an important group of citizens in this country. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.219.0	After defending the papers presented, the groups now have the word, to fix their position. And, in the first place, will do it the Parliamentary Group of VOX, with the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.220.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, I have to tell you that today you have not respected the inviolability of Parliament and the freedom of expression of several Members of my group, and in particular mine. I do not know whether you are touched by the Juvillà case and want to breast-feed against VOX in front of your own, but of course I think you must respect the parliamentary freedom of this group, and in particular mine, if I want to denounce the effects of illegal immigration, which I will do whenever I see fit. ( Some applause.) And I also tell Mr. Swordler, that very soon he will be able to see us also in the consistories, even if he does not like it, and that is why I tell him to go prepare. Look, as far as the truth of this motion is, it's a big tailor's drawer in which absolutely different themes are mixed together. We talk about the police career, the formation of the body, the internal promotion, the Judicial Police, the Division of Internal Affairs, the disciplinary regime of Mossos and even the avenue Meridiana. Anyway, we miss a little bit of a thread, a little bit of order and consistency in the motion. In points 1 and 2, we shall vote no. We are going to vote that not because we understand that a law of the police career is not appropriate, more autonomous regulations, but that it would be sufficient, if necessary, to amend some aspects of the existing law of 1994. As is known, the legal regime of the state security forces and bodies, autonomous and local police is found in the organic law of security forces and bodies of the year 86. On this basis, the National Police, for example, has its staff status regulated in an organic law of 2015, and the Mossos have a law of the year 94, which is the one that can and should be modified, in some aspects dealing with the motion, without the need to elaborate this new law of the police career. On the other points of the motion, we will, of course, vote in favour. And if we want to make a special mention, we want to emphasize the Division of Internal Affairs, the DAI, which is an acronym that also means "division of ideological affinity – it seems done on purpose and by chance. Because the division of ideological affinity acts with a double standard for ideological reasons, whether or not it is separatist. When mosso is a recognized separatist, it is all about making a blind eye, passiveness and administrative inaction; for others, on the other hand, there is administrative persecution and disciplinary files. And I'll give you some real examples: if a mossa says textually on social networks‘fucking king, nothing happens, the ‘division of ideological affinity' does not move a finger. If a mosso says textually on social networks« Spain is a fascist state and the agents of the National Police are criminals, the « division of ideological affinity is profiled. If a mosso says textually on social networks« with the Bourbons begins genocide and accompanies a photo of King Philip VI, « the division of ideological affinity does not act nor initiates any file. Now, if you say on social networks textually "coupist commands to refer you to the defendants during the trial of the trial, the "division of ideological affinity of office opens you a disciplinary file like a cathedral and imposes a suspension of employment and salary of five months. This is the double measuring rod that the Internal Affairs Division has, which never opens disciplinary file to the yellow-bonded moss in the flap. And, if he does, he does it because the prosecution forces him to act, in the face of his inaction and his passivity. The motion deals with many other issues on which there would be much to say and on which urgent change is needed. It gives me no more time than to mention the ones. For example, in the internal promotion system, which, for example, the last test of access to the subinspector category is an interview or a practical case of an oral nature that is neither recorded nor recorded and that cannot be appealed is not entirely reasonable, and that, let's say, you use it to filter out who you promote and who you don't, at your convenience. The disciplinary regime of the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra – which is based on a law, the law of Mossos d'Esquadra of the year 94, and the disciplinary regulations of the year 95 – is more than twenty years old. It is therefore urgent to incorporate the most recent jurisprudence on sanctioning in the area of administrative procedure and to prevent the Division for Internal Affairs from arbitrarily interpreting the rules of procedure or in the area of administrative sanctioning procedure. In conclusion, you already know VOX's position in relation to the Mossos d'Esquadra: we advocate the integration of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps into the National Police and the Civil Guard. We want integration and we want the simplification of the police forces. However, as long as this integration does not occur and the Mossos d'Esquadra have the security skills as an ordinary and integral police force in Catalonia, we will always defend the Mossos d'Esquadra. And we want a professional police, a transparent police, a police that works on all the issues we have referred to before. Of course, what we do not want is a politicized police, a police that allows inside the body those who insult the king and the institutions of the State with impunity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.221.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.222.0	Thank you, good afternoon. MPs, MPs, councillors... that's the last time I'm in this House, and I'm not giving up the moon anymore. In any case, to begin with... we started by looking at the points of the motion, and... to say that the first four points, therefore, seem to be points in which we would not agree, surely, with the lords and lords of Ciutadans, but which seem to us important, phonenal and interesting points to approach. For example, respect the study of career plans, respect accesses, selection and format processes of the body's components, and respect the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia and the updating of its contents. Certainly from a position in the antipodes, but it seems like a debate to be opened, and that is why we also have a police model commission in which we can address these and many other debates. That said, from these points on, in which we would also vote against, as in the rest of the House, we see how it begins to see the praise. And let's see how they start to see the lesson when they start putting forward a series of proposals and reforms that respect the DAI, which, in our opinion, is not getting a better investigation of the bad police practices or more resources or deeper into this investigation, but what they are looking for is getting deeper into this situation of impunity, this situation of corporatism, this situation of opacity and this situation of lack of control. Both Ciutadans and the rest of the groups that criticize the DAI, as we do, certainly from an earlier perspective, we offer them a mechanism, a mechanism of public control, independent, with the ability to tax and sanction the practical ills of police officers and cosmos. Does it seem independent to them? Does that sound fair to you? So they vote; so they vote in favour of this proposal, they vote in favour of this mechanism. Therefore, in this legislature we hope to be able to pull it forward. For another band, at the end of the day, it's all lauded. Let's attack the mobilizations again, let's talk about Meridiana again. Obviously, we will also vote against it. Before another group also commented, respect these acts, right? I understand that he was referring to the fines for the law, I understand that he was referring to that law which his group undertook to repeal and which is currently still in force, and I understand that he was referring also to that law which Professor Xavier Arbos himself at the same meeting spoke to him and said that it seemed to him to be an absolutely unfair law and that it had to be repealed as soon as possible. I don't know whether I understood it well or not, but I understand he was going this way, he questioned it. I, by the end of the day and not to expand further, Mrs. Roldán, if you want and care about it, can go to my network profile, to a tweet I made this morning, which begins like this: « Dimecres, a new case of false attestations of the Mosses. Then I can watch the video. Then I can look at the attestation. And then, if you want, you can go to the court to convince him, the JEC to convince him or wherever they think they're going to report, if that's his form and his way of doing things. So here we are. Whatever we say, we say where you need it. And as much as they threaten us with reprisals or that they want to deny us reality or that they want to say that it doesn't exist because they don't like it that it exists, we'll follow it the same way. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.223.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.224.0	Thank you, President. Well, Ciutadans presents us with a motion..., and it's funny, too, because I've heard it on various occasions, to Mr. Alonso, criticizing the motions of In Comú Pode, for whether they were full motions or extensive mass, and presents us with a motion where they sweep different questions and enough content. A young man to whom we will not support, basically because they come to defend different views, different conceptions of his model of what the police of Catalonia should be, and it is obvious, therefore, that he is far removed from the model that we defend. In the first few points, more so, they make a few repeated references to how to coordinate this police, how to allow this police..., or how to be a reflection of the rest of the forces and security features of the state, which we disagree with very much. It's to say, if there are some police bodies that we think we don't have to take with reference bodies to establish the police of Catalonia, they are precisely these police units of the security forces and units of the rest of the state. Starting with the name, huh? , because "State security forces..., we believe that the functions to be covered by the police are others. We're defending a police proximity, a police officer who's about to solve the problems of the citizenry, and, therefore, a police officer serving the citizenry, and not a police officer based on the use of force. Some of these points – and it's also commented on now – are certainly referring to issues that we believe we need to address to the debate and that we need to deal with, and that's why the Police Model Study Commission is here. Some of them, which, as I say, therefore, we approach from a very different look... is all you have to see, for example, with training. It is obvious that we need to review the formation of the Police of Catalonia, that we need to incorporate..., that we need to improve what is established in the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, not in the sense that you tell us, that it is to incorporate everything that comes from the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, but we believe that what we need to advance, for example, in a greater cross-sectionality of this police, and, therefore, to be able to give training because effectively the policies of security in Catalonia can be much more transversal. Or, also, in the matter of human rights, that we believe it would be useful to incorporate many elements into it, as we have already established in the agreement of assumptions with the government, so that we can incorporate ourselves into the formation of the police of Catalonia that we believe they could help improve their work. Then, in the next block of the young man, they talk about everything you have to see with the DAI. We believe that, effectively, therefore, it is necessary to rethink the evaluation mechanisms of police actions; not in the sense that you are setting up, but we do believe that it is obvious that I can review these mechanisms. We plant it – and not only do we plant it, but the main human rights entities of this country also plant it – that what would be hot is an external, independent, evaluation mechanism of our police. For different motius. First, because it's a mechanism that works in other countries. Therefore, we are not talking about something that we have invented here in certain parliamentary groups, but it is mechanisms that work, so, for example, the United Kingdom and in other realities. Therefore, they are instruments that have proved useful in other contexts. Secondly, because we believe that it is obvious that we have seen at home numerous cases of corporatism in the police department, that we have seen numerous cases of false witnesses on the part of police officers, and, therefore, that it ends with this type of practice. As we have also seen numerous cases of abuse of force by the police, of disproportionate use, and of mechanisms to prevent this from happening, because right now what we find is that there is no investigation, that there is no response to realities that are more than obvious, because there is this corporatism and this opacity between the body. An external mechanism we understand would help to solve a good part of this problem. And thirdly, we believe that it would contribute basically because it would be a preventative mechanism, because it would be a mechanism that would prevent many of these evil practices from ending up because of the knowledge that this mechanism exists. Therefore, the main function of this mechanism we believe should be preventive, as demonstrated in the countries in which there is a mechanism of these characteristics. And the main beneficiaries of a mechanism of this type, such as ours, and that we believe we should put the debate on the Police Model Study Commission..., the main beneficiaries would not only be the country's citizenry, which would be better defended before certain interferences of the police bodies, but above all they would be those police officers – who are the vast majority – who do well their work. Therefore, a mechanism that would be useful for all those agents and agents who, effectively, are doing well and who would not have to worry absolutely about the existence of this mechanism that we propose. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.225.0	It is the return, now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, of Mrs Marta Madrenas' deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.226.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Benvolgut Counsellor, Members and Members of Parliament today, in fact, Ciutadans presents us with a motion that Junts does not share, and therefore we cannot support it. I suppose it wasn't a surprise to you either. I'm sure while they were writing, I already knew all of us who couldn't support this proposal that you and all of us would vote against. Nevertheless, it is certain that sometimes, on occasions like these, when it is announced from the first moment that the vote will be denied, so... Sometimes it is said: "It is okay, we appreciate that I bring this proposal here, because from the Faristol we can all explain to the citizen who is our position respect to a concrete issue, but today is not the case, because, frankly, this young man is clearly inappropriate, right? And now I'll explain why we consider this to be Juntas. It is not in any case because from Juntes we do not consider that everything that relates to security is not important; on the contrary, we think it is important. In fact, it is a big issue that we ask ourselves to reflect and debate in depth, in depth, in order to be able to find what is the best model that our citizenry needs. Together we want a safe country and we want the people of Catalonia to be safe in this country; a country that obviously guarantees coexistence for everyone in cities, towns, streets, safe places where everyone can develop their vital and professional projects with complete freedom. And that's why we're defending an open police, open to the society that you serve; that you also give response to the proximity, as partner Parés said, but also to these growing criminal complexities that are appearing now; that you obviously practice prevention, mediation, support for people who are victims. The relationship between the police and the citizenry must be a relationship of absolute confidence that transparency and accountability are obviously inherent. That's how we conceive, how Junts conceives how our police are supposed to be. The reasons for which we can't give support to your young lady... is, above all, a first, which is..., for which I said that this young man considered her inappropriate, and that's because he hasn't heard much about presenting her yet. You, who propose to us revisions of the career plans of the moves – that's to say, it's a bat bull, huh? , as other Members, other companies who have spoken before, have recognized, also updates of the rules of access and selection of commands, modifications of the format programs and disciplinary regime, revision of the internal promotion system, review of the Internal Affairs Division, the other should be superficial... Finally, we are working on a new police model in which exactly all these aspects will be analyzed. We will have the opportunity to listen to a lot of academic experts, security experts, trade unions, affected citizens, etc. And we, together, therefore, like to take decisions and establish political strategies with shared governance and with rigour and with data, and I see that you do not want to go further and listen and see what they think and what explanations they make to us, who knows all these authorities on the subject that are believed to help us reflect and analyze this system, new police system, or with the modifications that are needed. I will not express either..., or yes, very briefly, that, effectively, many points went by saying that we have a model to replicate, such as that of the Spanish State's bones and security forces. Obviously, we, therefore, cannot give any support from the way. In fact, the day we clearly stated that it was not a model to replicate was the October 1st, that the police came to stun people who, peacefully, only wanted to cast our vote in the ballot box in a totally democratic way. Therefore, it is not at all a model to copy. And, finally, I believe that all this motion was to go to this end, at this point 8, which is, I am listening, to go another shot at the right of demonstration, the right of assembly, the right to express oneself with complete freedom, which are fundamental rights that must be preserved. And you're the one who couldn't win the ballot box all the time, so... try it this way. And, therefore, I believe that it is not so much that these manifestations bother them, but that what bothers them is that they are democratic expressions that are independent, and that is why they only want to look through and difficulties so that we cannot express ourselves with complete freedom and respect for our fundamental rights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.227.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.228.0	Good afternoon to everyone. It's okay to be the last one, so you can go looking at the accomplices and coincidences that have occurred in the last two motions, in the speech, in the matter of security in this Parliament. And that's pretty clear-cut, I have to tell you. Mirin, his police model is certainly antagonistic to ours, lords of Ciutadans, but there are many things we should be able to talk and debate. That's what I'm telling you, too. As far as your young man is concerned, whatever they are proposing is already being done or we think we should wait for the future conclusions of the Parliamentary Study Commission of the Police Model. If we go away and pull thousands without waiting, the message we send is that the commission has no use. It would give the feeling that it does not really serve its purpose, serve as a key back to transform and put our police in the best conditions. There are also questions related to the working conditions that are already being dealt with in the framework of the social dialogue with the cos unions. We have, therefore, talked around these and many other themes with the pattern of moves through their representatives. And we're moving forward, and we're hoping that he's able to keep moving forward in the recovery line and the better of rights. We have, moreover, the compromise – explicit for the councillor at the first sessions of the Commission d'Interior – to bring to completion the great challenge that is to approve a new law of the public security system of Catalonia. We hope to count, certainly, on your participation and on your responsible contributions, for example, to the committee of the police debate, something in which we still trust despite your aggressive and sometimes populist attitude – let me tell you, Mr Alonso, of the respect I profess to you as a person and as parliamentarian. Because Ciutan and other parliamentary groups are only interested in eating the Spanish nationalist space, and that they are supposed to be especially responsible because they have held and have other responsibilities of government, they have entered into a perilous, clearly populist drift, with security. And not only here in Parliament, but also in many municipalities of Catalonia. And you know, you know it perfectly well, but it's the same, with the conviction that they have that they can get a little bit of political resolution. And they're wrong, and a lot, because with this attitude that's winning, and more and more, they're the ultrathreat and the low passions of fascism. Miri, in your previous inquiry to this young man, Mr. Alonso, you made a defense of public safety as essential services. He remembered that all public servers have to be in the service of the city council. And you're right, we agree. And I even grow up on his good intentions, and it could have been a good starting point. But you're not staying here. You're talking about purging. You're talking about a supporter of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. It stands, without any evidence, talking about dark selection processes, or talking about political interference to prevent or stifle police investigations. Really, Mr. Alonso? And you didn't immediately go to the D.A.'s office to report it? It's surprising. You know perfectly well that no one on the department's current team – no one, no one – would ever have the claim to make an ideological cleanup or to politically control the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. Insinuating it or saying it, as a fan, is a very unfair insemination, because they know perfectly well that it is not as they say, and despite that they do serve it. Among other things, do you also know why it would not be possible to use the partisan or political control of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, lords of Ciutadans and others? Do you know why it wouldn't be possible? Because the professionalism of the commanders and their agents would never allow this to happen. They won't let anyone. And so, lords and lords of the City and others, it does not fit: it is not credible that you can say what you say and now claim to defend the professionalism of the commands that are at the forefront of the body as responsible for the areas and processes that you criticize in a matxacona way. What they're actually doing is putting them on trial, using them, questioning them and them and their professionalism. And that's the truth. That's what they're doing. And let me put an end to one last question, because I think I should make it very clear what the tactic is for Ciutadans to serve in this case – and also for others on other occasions –, and it seems to me to be paramount at parliamentary level. You have only intended to present yourself as adalils and defenders outside the police. They've been looking for both the easy and the easy medal. But it turns out that you have not been able to talk to parliamentary groups that support the government. I've already started saying that we're a few years away; that it could be very difficult, the agreement; that we're in the past, but you didn't want to waste a single minute of your trading time trying to reach some kind of agreement. Zero is interested in talking to the groups that can give it the majority to approve what they propose. Zero interests, therefore, lords and lords of Ciutadans, in that they actually take advantage of what they propose. Zero is interested in bringing it to reality supposedly for the good and the benefits of those who claim to defend. And that's what you've seen most of the city, that you're more than you look like you're doing. We are more than just marking a path and working carefully, determinedly, and, when we can, too, discreetly, where we want to get there. For all this, Mr. and Mr. Ciutadans, we will vote negatively on your entire motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.229.0	Okay. I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.230.0	Thank you, President. Well, together you tell us that this young man is inopportune. So I have to tell you that I address questions that have been on the table for many years and that concern the agents, and I just need to talk to the unions. Mr. Castillo – besides..., who has seen him and who sees him, Mr. Castillo –, therefore, sees us say that the movement of any opposition group needs the government's placce, eh? – or so: « Pass by box, we'll talk about it and we'll fly if we approve of it. I say to him that there is a very clear parliamentary mechanism to discuss the opposition with the government groups, which is neither more nor less than presenting papers. You didn't show up. In any case, tell Mr. Swordler that he does not want to change, even if he is on the ground. And this refers to the functional dependence of the DAI, which we think should be on the margins of the prefecture – in this we are absolutely in agreement – but in any case, we do think that the DAI needs a return, and very important. To say that three papers have been presented to this motion, two presented for the Parliamentary PSC Group and Units for Progress. To say that we have accepted the first, that it is incorporated into the final text of the motion and that it affects the fourth point – it is a modification theme. And to say that the second point was that we didn't want to accept it, because you're going to dilute a little the DAI issue, in the sense that the PSC is going to say that things are doing well, and we think they're way too far from doing well, and that's what I talked to the counselor about, too. I would also like to say that there has been a statement from the People's Party, the Joint Group, which, in any case, we have presented a compromise. They did not accept it, but we do agree with the Joint Group's view that, once and for all, it has to be done with the sizes; not with the demonstrations, not with the right of assembly, but, indeed, it has to be done with the sizes. And also tell Mrs Madrenas, from Juntes per Catalunya, that it is not in Ciutadan and this deputy in concrete, who are severely affected by the continuous heights in the Meridiana. I have to tell you that practically I never make it to the Meridiana, but anyway, I'm going to talk to the veins, I'm going to talk to the merchants who have been holding on for more than two years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.231.0	Okay. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into foreign policy]] [[302-00086/13]] So the debate is over..., we will also vote on this point with a substantial vote on the later point of the order of the day, which we now have, the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on foreign policy, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. He has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.232.0	Thank you very much, President. And good afternoon to you all, honourable Members. Today we are debating and voting on a motion that is the result of an inquiry that we tabled at the plenary session before the Foreign Action Advisor – a pity that she is not here today – Ms. Victòria Alsina. This motion I would like to raise as an opportunity; as an opportunity to give a change of course, an opportunity to put Catalans at the centre of our political activity in this chamber, once and for all removing this Government from the illegality and waste of public money. As I mentioned in my question at the previous plenary session, the External Action portfolio has a total budget of €94_million, an amount that, although in the previous year was already a frankly astronomical amount, in the current year the Government has raised it by twenty-seven_per_cent more. The External Action Council is a completely non-dispensable multi-millionaire expenditure, an amount that we could use, for example, in a package of €9000 aid to over 100_000 Catalan families – I think a much better money spent. In addition to being unnecessary and ineffective, the Generalitat's external action has been a focus of infringements, waste and corruption, a framework that is currently still open in the courts that has already involved the payment of a bail of 5,400,000 euros. A money that, of course, government officials have not paid out of their pocket, but have not hesitated to create that illegal bail fund – or finance – to circumvent the direct payment of this imposed penalty. This..., if something like this happened to a Catalan on foot, for example, by driving too fast, that Catalan on foot would have to pay for his pocket, but you..., you don't: you always believe above the law. It seems that in the end you have truly believed that you are a superior race and that the laws do not go with you and you live absolutely in a panorama superior to the rest of the mortals – of the "gnors, as you say – but this is not true. And as much as Mrs Alsina is Catalan, she is separatist, so she does not belong to any higher race. Because in Spain the law is and is enforced. So if Mrs. Alsina follows the same path as her predecessors in this position, most likely her next destination is not Mexico, not New York, not Washington, but her next destination will be the bench of the defendants. [[Some applause.]] Today, through this motion, we demand an end to this dark stage. We demand that the Government of the Generalitat cease to act as a genuine separatist mafia. We demand that, once and for all, the Foreign Action Council of the Generalitat de Catalunya be suspended. We also demand the closure of the Diplocat and of all the separatist chiringuitos that this government has opened for so many years abroad. We also demand the closure of the embassies that this Government has opened around the world, and that it never reopen even one more embassy. We simply demand compliance with the law and compliance with the Spanish Constitution, and that any action of this Government always be with absolute loyalty to the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. Look, the Catalan provinces are going through a situation that, frankly, is critical. No Catalan can say that he lives better today than ten years ago – no Catalan except you, of course. Because, in these times of zozobra, it is essential that public institutions focus all their efforts on alleviating the effects of the pandemic, on helping Catalans in this social emergency. We will not allow separatism to continue to squander EUR 94_million in illegal foreign action while the queues of hunger only increase. We will not allow separatism to continue to open embassies abroad when there are more than ninety thousand Catalans waiting for an official protection housing. Because the Catalans have precisely put us here to be an alternative. They have put us here to control the last cent this government handles and put an end to its waste. And that is precisely what we propose: to put an end to illegality, to put an end to waste and to put Catalans at the centre of the political activity of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.233.0	For the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.234.0	Thank you, President. This motion by the VOX Parliamentary Group will follow the steps of each and every initiative that they have put forward in this Parliament: it will be rejected with the usual moral superiority with which the corduroys they themselves call ‘healthy, a conjure in which the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group neither participates nor participates, without, in our opinion, this political position being considered a scandal, at least in this Parliament. Because, let's be clear, those who deny the extreme right that represents VOX in this chamber constantly make eyes to the other extreme right, the one that has installed in this Parliament at least three legislatures, whose members walk ufans with deeply anti-democratic symbols, as are those who represent the groups of bias « fascistoid that self-proclaim « guardians of democratic essences when they are nothing more than political and social valiants of the coup d'état to democracy that starred in September and October 2017 [[applause]] , and that from their totalitarian and anti-democratic positions they would be delighted to repeat if the rule of law, which fortunately we continue to enjoy, allowed them the slightest respite. So if in plenary or in committee I can coincide some – few – with the proposals that drive Junts, then I can also coincide with some of the proposals made by the VOX Parliamentary Group. And in the case we are dealing with, in the case of this motion on external action, I must confess to you that from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group some of these proposals have been on our side for a long time. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group – I myself – have already called for the abolition of the Foreign Action and Open Government Councillor who heads Victòria Alsina, and we have told the same councillor. And it is not because we do not believe that the Government of the Generalitat, like any other autonomous government, can not exercise the competence of external action, a competition that is regulated in the third chapter of the fifth title of the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, but we are very clear that what the Government of the Generalitat is doing, at least since the return of the corrupt Convergence of the hand of Arthur Mas, has little or nothing to do with the concept of external action, and fits more and better in the attempt to usurp foreign policy – exclusive competence of the Government of Spain - and to use the public resources that it has to implement, through propaganda, its attack on the whole of the Spanish nation, on Spain as a whole, which does not cease to be an attack against the interests of Catalan citizenship and against the interests of Catalonia. So, yes, the Department of Foreign Action and Propaganda must be removed from a pen as soon as possible. By the way, it is an insult to the intelligence that this department of agitation and propaganda speaks of transparency and open government. The department needs to be suppressed. But – and that has been one of the two amendments that we have tabled in this motion – the Government of the Generalitat has among its powers the exercise of external action in the terms recognized by the Statute of autonomy, not as does that department of « agitprop. For the Generalitat to be able to exercise the powers recognized in the Statute of autonomy, it would be sufficient with a general direction, to return to its origins. This department was born with very bad standing, and was created to the greatest glory of the self-named « Minister of Foreign Affairs Raül Romeva, the first of the advisers specialized in « agitprop that has had to face their evils in the face of justice and the rule of law, the one who intended to supplant by a dictatorship of salon, something that they cannot deny, because their dictatorial postulates are reflected black on white in the enabling pseudoleys, those that promulgated with night and lightness in September 2017. The coup government created this department as the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. Transparency, null; usurping the exclusive foreign relations competence of the Government of Spain was its main function, as it is now under its current name. So this is our proposal: that its legal and legitimate powers be exercised by a couple of directorates-general in the Department of the Presidency, and that all the chiringuitos dedicated to « agitprop and to attacking Spain, that is to say Catalonia and Catalan citizenship. A continuous attack on Spain that is nothing more than to beat one's foot against the interests of Catalonia; not the fatuous and sterile dreams of the disgovernment that we suffer, but the interests of the citizens of Catalonia as a whole, to which separatism neither serves nor will serve. In any case, we are in favour of converting the Generalitat office in Brussels, so it was also one of our amendments. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.235.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.236.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll do my speech in Spanish, lest we lose some vote I don't know where [[some applause]] But I will do it more than anything because some have understood absolutely nothing. Let's see. On the basis of articles 148 and 149 of the Constitution, the State has exclusive jurisdiction over the following matters, international relations, which the Spanish Constitution itself and the subsequent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court..., we are fully aware of this competence conferred on the Autonomous Communities in the field of international relations. We have indeed been the first to censure the Government in the external committees themselves when it has frequently used the work of the Council to go beyond its functions. However, we believe that they are useful tools to promote Catalonia abroad within its area of competence. Some Member before me was talking about the law, the importance of law enforcement, that we have the law. The law says, literally – Article 32 – that it is the function of the sectoral offices of the Government abroad "economic promotion, research, innovation, attracting investment, tourism promotion, the internalisation of cultural enterprises, the international projection of Catalan language and culture and cooperation and development aid. According to the law, all these offices can do. I can agree that many times they have gone further and have used it to criticize the Government of Spain and to criticize Spain, but these are the functions that the offices have to have. By the way, functions that are quite similar to those of other branches of government in our country; I repeat, functions that are very similar to those of other branches of government in our country. An example: the Andalusian community has a Department of External Action – it is not called..., another name and I call it« Action... ; no, no, Department of External Action – whose offices had a budget, in 2017, of 6_million_de_euros. And this budget has increased, with the last government, to EUR 32 million in the middle of the pandemic. From 6_million to 32. Who voted in favour of this? VOX.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Greetings.]] VOX.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Are you sure you have to put an end to all this because the needs go the other way or is that only good for Catalonia? [[Pause.]] That only works for Catalonia. And I agree, sometimes the government – and we have denounced it – has been able to exceed itself in some of its functions, but from there to want to end the council, with the external action of the Generalitat, with the offices of the outside that have the rest of the communities, seems a little bit..., honestly, seems a little excessive to me. That is why we will vote against the motion as a whole. We do not agree with the essence of the motion. I mean, things have to get better. Things have to be able to do better, which doesn't mean we have to suppress the whole of the council, because, among other things, I suppose you will then do the same in communities where you have much more weight, like Andalusia, like Madrid, like Galicia, huh? Let's see. We shall therefore vote against all points of the motion. And yes, I insist, we talk about the inconsistency of VOX when presenting this motion, when in other communities it is done exactly the same, but multiplied by five. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.237.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.238.0	Thank you, President. Since our parliamentary group are quite breus. We agree – and we have said it again and again – that the syringuites must be closed. That's why we insist on starting one more time to shut down the "greatest of all, which is that of the 78th Regime. Meanwhile, some reasons to maintain and enhance Catalan public diplomacy, to support international cooperation, which is the best of diplomas because it is based on solidarity – do not alienate us from the fact that it takes place in the world, but well, it is based on solidarity, and that is why it is important – to promote and defend internationally the right of our people to independence, self-determination and amnesty as instruments for the democratic resolution of the conflict, to defend the collective rights of peoples in all international forums, to denounce and combat internationally fexism, racism and xenophobia – and it is normal, too, that the common fence for that. Other reasons that we from our parliamentary group find essential, but that the Department of Foreign Affairs does not yet and always does not incorporate in its priorities – and should do so –, such as the struggle against all forms of imperialism and colonialism, the construction of a new Euro-Mediterranean project that exceeds our current dependence on the European Union and our belonging to NATO, the establishment of new international alliances that are effective in the fight against climate change and in the construction of a new model of development that is solidarity and founded on human and environmental rights on a global scale. Simply put, for all this, we will vote against your motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.239.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word, now, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.240.0	Thank you, President. I'll be brief too, and I'll talk about the law, and I'll take advantage of it to make a little reminder. Article 13 of the preliminary title of the Statute of Catalonia, « Catalan communities abroad. The Generality, in the terms established for the law, must promote social, economic and cultural links with the Catalan communities abroad and must provide them with the necessary assistance. To this end, the Generalitat, according to its correspondent, can formalize cooperation agreements with the public and private institutions of the territories and countries where the Catalan communities are found abroad and can request the State to sign international treaties on this matter. Chapter III of the Statute, « External action of the Generality – Article 193. "General provisions. The Generalitat must encourage the projection of Catalonia abroad and promote its interests in this area, respecting the competence of the State in the field of external relations. The Generality has the capacity to carry out actions with external projection that derive directly from its competencies, both directly and through the organs of general administration of the State. Article 194, "Offices abroad. The Generalitat, for the promotion of the interests of Catalonia, can set up offices abroad. And I could follow through to Article 200, which was my intention, but I'm abhorring myself, even so. But, come on, the feeling was that, effectively, the Statute of Catalonia recognizes that the Generality has powers in external action, and what the External Action Council does is to develop these powers and allocate resources to it in order to do this policy that the Statute of Catalonia tells it, and that, if it did not, it would be out of place. So let a government do what the State says, which is the law that governs which are the powers and which is the institutional role of Catalonia, so..., it tastes hard, but it is not a motion of sanctions or of asking that it is tanqui. Obviously, the way he does it, the object with which he does it, who are his priorities, we can discuss a lot – what resources are allocated, what is not – but what the Generality can and must do outside is what the law says. And, therefore, these groups that so much as want to complete the law that they should least do..., it is also defending this law, which is the Statute of Autonomy, and which governs, among other things, its paper here in the Parliament of Catalonia. So, nothing more to say. It's a young man who, by the way, won't have any support, who doesn't bring anything at all, and that the only thing he does is show the limitations of the group that proposes it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.241.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.242.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we are going to vote in favour of many, practically all the points, except for the first point, where we are talking about the abolition of the External Action Council, which, in this case, we are going to abstain. I believe that such councils obviously exist in all autonomous governments; they exist and, moreover, do a great job of promoting the territory, attracting investments, companies and so on. And, of course, I very much doubt that if you are ever part of an autonomous government you will decide to suppress that advice. Therefore, here I would ask for a little rigour. I believe that the problem is not counseling; the problem is what they are using external action for, that is, the problem is who rules, but would not advise it itself. Just as I say this to you, I also say to you: Diplomats and embassies, closed. Closed already. In fact, we're late; as soon as possible. These chiringuitos have been key to the propaganda strategy of the process and to the contempt of the institutions of our country, and, in addition, they have been a true nest of opacity from which they waste the money of all Catalans. We have asked for the agendas of delegates on countless occasions. Today from here again I insist – there is not Councilwoman Alsina, but she knows perfectly well that we have repeated it on many occasions in the committee – because we want to know exactly what the money of the Catalans is spent on these famous delegates of the embassies that you have wasted throughout the world. Because, in addition, the expenses uncovered by the judicial investigation that affects the Diplomat result in no waste. They even paid for soap with public money – soap – food, travel, excursions..., absolutely everything. But the counselor doesn't want to give us a single piece of information; that, in addition to being External Action advisor, it is also Transparency's – I think the joke is told alone. I insist, in addition to soap, travel, food... but it is that they went beyond, and you have also tried to buy wills by hiring lobbies that cost us an eye of the face and which, by the way, have served them absolutely nothing. And I still remember the fugitive Puigdemont predicting the arrival of international support. Not one – not one – is that not one of these supports came. And it doesn't surprise me, because, as much money as you spend, in Europe you have already kept quiet. In fact, the last has been with the language of education, which seems to me to be embarrassing that from Brussels you have to draw attention to yourselves for not complying with a judicial decision, embarrassing that you will be drawn to your attention and embarrassing that you also do so to the Government of Spain, which does not look after the interests of Catalan pupils and their families. The truth is, it's an absolute shame. You, who repeat so much «the world looks at us..., for yes, the world looks at us, and telitates with what you see. Look, the Catalans don't have to pay for their delusions of grandeur around the world or pay for the fatherly life that has been stuck some at the cost of the process, because the process serves exactly that, so that some live to the king's body while the Catalans pay more and more taxes. So, yes, closure of embassies, closure of the Diplomat and elimination of high offices that we don't know what they're doing, but they charge more than a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.243.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.244.0	Thank you, President. If you want to ring the bell to warn, that doesn't work for five minutes. [[Give me the applause.]] Well, when I read the motion, I have to tell them that I was surprised, because I thought that if you ask for the suppression of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the entities that form part of it... you must mean that you are now in favor of all the rest of the departments of the Generality? It surprised me. And that's why he had a lot of interest in feeling his use, his exposure today. I have to say, I was surprised by the happiness. Congratulations because, taking into account that you are from Girona and that you have studied in a language immersion school, you have a lot of merit that you do after the castle as well as he speaks. [[Give me the applause.]] From his exposure, it follows that what concerns him is the economic cost of all folded. In the pateix. There are mechanisms of taxation; among them, that of the Court of Auditors. Know that it will soon be reinforced, because we send one of our best deputies to Ferran Roquer. Ferran, you'll leave a huge, huge void. [[Rialles.]] You know that all Members – I in particular – all Members consider us your dolphins. So, thank you for your master's degree, and get out and be sure in the new stage. [[Greetings.]] I see, however, the interventions of the other groups that support it, I see that what concerns them is not just the economic issue, but the issue that this is a propaganda tool. Don't pateixin. Here surely we must reflect, because there is no better propaganda tool than giving diffusion to his interventions. I propose that they be subtitled and sent out, because every time you intervene they give inner and outer arguments to lie down towards the inevitable independence of Catalonia. It is convenient that they know what their arguments are, that from their point of view they do not want the Catalan embassies to have or to know – they want the embassies« guilds, I have not understood it very well(s) –, for which reason, all folded..., I will tell you that we will vote that not at the first point of your youth, we will vote against the second, we will vote in a sense deny the third(s) and put down the red button of the quarter. And because there are no more points, which, if not, we would also vote against. But, said that, I thank you... I thank you for making these interventions and I encourage you to continue on this line, which, as I say, will help everyone internally and externally to see clearly the imperative need for independence in Catalonia. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.245.0	And, in the last place, has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Ruben Wagensberg.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.246.0	Thank you, President. We won't go in and value this young man. I therefore announce that we will vote against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.247.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.248.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen... the truth is that I didn't intend to go in – I didn't intend to go in – Mr Cuevillas, because I also expected a little bit more of you, didn't I? I was waiting here for you to come in and do a little more serious surgery and a little more serious... because the feeling I get is that your surgery is a little bit like this, like being at home, isn't it? , kind of like the sneakers you're wearing today. [[Some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, I must say that we sincerely thank you for having tabled amendments to this motion, but unfortunately we cannot accept the amendments, because I would lose quite the sense, the motion that we wanted to introduce today. Because we understand that the external action of the Generality has been a focus of corruption, a focus of invasion of competences and, basically, a nest of criminals and living creatures for too many years. That's why we think it has to be clipped to one hundred per cent. We don't like half inks too much, do we? ; if we applied a 155, we would like it to be a 155 brave, eagerly. Even so, we really appreciate the amendments that have been tabled to us. Secondly, the other that they have presented, as far as the embassies..., the Brussels one say they want to keep it in operation. For we believe that precisely that, which is the second house of Puigdemont, where there are so many loud shows every week, and I will say more, where I have been denied entry on a couple of occasions, because we believe that it is another of these embassies that have to close once and for all. And don't devote a single cent more to this illegal foreign action that sooner or later we will end up closing, like this, all the councils and this chamber, when we have enough support, that will arrive, gentlemen, will arrive. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-02-09-2402.249.0	Okay. So, after the debate, I'm guessing we're going to proceed with the vote on the motions for substance this late, which are points 20 to 23 of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the labour market (continuation)]] [[302-00084/13]] We will begin by voting for motion 20, following the Government's inquiry into the labour market. We will vote first on points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 45 votes in favour, 83 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 45 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting points four and five now. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 112 votes in favour and 18 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos (continuation)]] [[302-00085/13]] Let's now vote for motion number 21, following the question to the government about the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Let's vote, first of all, points 1, 6 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 123 votes in favour and 7 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point received 40 votes in favour, 7 against and 83 abstentions. We're voting points 3, 4, 5 and 10 now. The vote begins. These points have not been approved, with 59 votes in favour and 71 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved, with 59 votes in favour and 71 abstentions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I've been given another question. This point was not approved, with 59 votes in favour and 71 votes against. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved, with 118 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has received 48 votes in favour, 71 against and 11 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the exercise of the competence of public security (continuation)]] [[302-00087/13]] We proceed to vote on item 22 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the exercise of the competence of public security. Let's vote, first of all, points number 1 and number 2. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 8 votes in favour and 123 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved, with 19 votes in favour and 112 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 48 votes in favour and 83 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 19 votes in favour, 80 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved, with 37 votes in favour and 93 votes against. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 51 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 8 abstentions. Finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were also approved, with 51 votes in favour and 80 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into foreign policy (continuation)]] [[302-00086/13]] And finally, we will vote on paragraph 23, the motion following the question to the Government on foreign policy. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 112 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 4. The vote begins. These points have also not been approved, with 19 votes in favour and 112 votes against. And finally, we're voting point number three. The vote begins. That point was also approved, with 14 votes in favour, 112 votes against and 5 abstentions. We suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you very much.
