ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.1.0	[[Declaration by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokesmen on the fets that occurred in Melilla on June 24, 2022]] [[401-00020/13]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.150.0	For all this, the Parliament of Catalonia condemns the brutal Moroccan and Spanish police violence, which represents a flagrant violation of human rights, as well as the illegal policy of heated returns, and rejects the statements of the President of the Government of the Spanish State commending the violent response of the Moroccan authorities before the death of drawings of people, for thirty-seven years, but an uncertain name that only increases. Two, notes that the events that occurred at the Melilla tank on 24 June are the result of the legislation on migration policy of the Spanish State, the treatises of the European Union and the management and externalisation of the border that was going on. Three, he notes that it is necessary to guarantee the security and protection of the human rights of the people who have managed to arrive in Melilla and of the more than a thousand people who have stayed in the Moroccan territory. Four, considers that the competent bodies must ensure adequate and quality health care for all hospitals to be the result of this tragedy. Five, expresses the need to enable access to offices established at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla for persons who express the will to seek international protection. Yes, he asks to advance in the identification of the cadavers and the location of the relatives, guaranteeing a dignified burial, through the Spanish consular services to Morocco. Set, considers that an investigation is necessary and that the Government of the State establishes accountability mechanisms to attribute responsibility for violations, deaths and disappearances occurring in access lives, and that truth, justice and reparation of victims and their relatives are set aside. He believes that the European institutions and the Government of the State, in particular, must guarantee the right to migrate with respect to human, social, civil and political rights, for all people, as has already been done in the case of people who emigrate as a result of the war in Ukraine. That is why he asks that the foreign law be repealed and that legal and safe lives be made available to European territories, which do not endanger the lives of migrants through maritime and land routes. Thus, we consider that it is necessary to end externalisation of border control and to withdraw public support for actions that are causing it to die.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.151.0	[[Question to the Government on the follow-up report of the Council of Europe]] [[300-00195/13]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.152.0	Very good morning to everyone. Councillor, Members, Members, President... First of all, I want to start this intervention by giving all the support to President Borràs, who, once again, is under the repressive spasm of the State. It is an example of a situation of persecution that we no longer only denounce. It is a fact: The democratic quality of the Spanish State is once again questioned and its international reputation, even worse. Last week, the Council of Europe issued a follow-up report on the recommendations that the Parliamentary Assembly of the same Council of Europe approved a year ago on the political repression of the Spanish State against independence. The conclusions of the report are nothing more than a new monumental clatillada to the Spanish State and to its health and democratic quality. Now a year ago, the report, which we also know under the name of "Cilevičs report", included some independent and rigorous conclusions and recommendations, which before it was approved had already generated effects from which the majority of communication media were to be made, and also generated debate in the thick of Catalan and European society. The forced and counter-reaction that caused this report was the precipitated arrest of the pardons the same day it was made public. The look of shame no longer allowed them to endure another day. Beyond the injustice that has assumed that new political prisoners have spent years in prison, the situation experienced a year ago shows us that international action to the European institutions and also the exercise since exile forced the State to hold these pardons. But what did the Cilevičs report call a year ago? Among other things, reform the crime of siege and rebellion; release political prisoners; withdraw extradition proceedings against exile; withdraw the charges against the rest of the U of October; initiate an open dialogue and build with the Catalan political forces; not sanction symbolic actions that only expressed solidarity, and, moreover, questioned the persecution of the Court of Auditors against governmental and diplomatic charges. One year later, the appreciation of the compliment on the part of the State of the Council of Europe's report remains very hard. What really bothers the report and what conclusions does the current follow-up report respect to its degree of compliment? Come on, come on, come on, come on, On reforming the crimes of rebellion and sedition, the report notes that this issue, unfortunately, has not been included in the legislative agenda. On the release of political prisoners, the report recalls that, at the same time, the sentences remain disabled. I note that it would be highly unusual and regrettable for these pardons, once announced and implemented, to be cancelled. Let us remember, however, that, one year later, the pardons are under review for the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the Supreme Court, for a political change in the composition of this Chamber. In the Spanish State things work like this. It also shows concern about the fact that the pardons are partial and the heads of the new political prisoners can exercise public functions, despite the fact that the citizens, by sending the ballot boxes, so they repeat, choose again the election. More things. On the withdrawal of extradition proceedings against exile. The report notes that the European Court of Justice has provisionally restored the parliamentary immunity of the three MEPs – of President Puigdemont, Councillor Comín and Councillor Ponsatí – for the risk that they will be arrested. According to the same report, the Euroorders would not have heard the light of the pardons granted to the new Catalans sentenced for the same reasons. More Contradictions of the Kingdom of Spain. On the withdrawal of charges against the rest of the U of October, the report recalls that more than seven hundred people face criminal charges and that there is no concerted action to resolve or pardon these cases. Follow me. With regard to the principle of an open and constructive dialogue with the Catalan political forces, he said that it would be desirable for Spain that political differences, also those on sensitive issues, should be resolved through compromise, without resorting to the courts, specifically in the criminal field. With regard to the misappropriation of funds, he openly questioned the Court of Auditors' proceedings, and it was about nepotism and the conflict of interest in the process of appointing its members. I mean, Court of Auditors politics. Moreover, the proposal of Catalan parliamentarians on an amnesty law for the accused has not been so much debated; in fact, it has not been admitted to court. More: Chile asked not to sanction symbolic actions that only expressed solidarity. The report now recommends moving away from the mode of crisis that has led to overly harsh winnings and massively zealous persecution of lower-ranking officials and civil society activists, as in the case of the four Girona bombers accused of abandoning their functions and of misappropriation to sound the sirens of their vehicles before a barracks of the Civil Guard. What a shame! And, in this sense, he also asks to investigate the case of "Catalangate", of which he says it would be desirable that the proposal to create a parliamentary inquiry commission was quickly adopted by the Spanish authorities. And the warmest is the water. In short, the report of the Council of Europe described Spain as vibrant democracy and we have now seen that, one year later, The Economist described it as defective. Two slaps in a year. And if that is not enough, Spain has again made a new ridiculous: this week we have seen announced a new sentence, this time for the European Court of Human Rights, which accused the State of providing the press with images of judgments defending the right to decide, some images that were in the custody of the State. It shows what we already know: the State has become a routine to designate innocent people for purely ideological motives. Mirin, the defective democracies have Operation Catalonia and "Catalangate", and the capital democracies have the announcement of the Scottish Prime Minister, according to which Scotland will again vote on its future. I'm sure a report of these characteristics won't be warm, in a few months' time, respecting Scotland. I'm done. Political conflict persists. Until the essence of the same is resolved – that is, the right to self-determination – the conflict will persist. Because, as you yourself, counsel, said before yesterday to a gallery in La Vanguardia, in an article respecting NATO, "to defend the right of Catalonia to form as it is, if Catalans want it, it is an act of realism. The State's response has so far been violent, with police rape, with political rape and with judicial rape; it is to say, rape outside democracy, rape outside democracy. And against this violence, the Council of Europe and the European and international courts act. Take a note. And the Catalans persist, too. Most Catalans persist, too. Take a note, too. For all this, Counselor, I would like you to give us an appreciation, from your point of view, of this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.2.0	So, then, the words of the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert, Mrs. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.3.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Mr Rius, exactly one year ago, an almost exact year ago, I would say, we were also in this chamber, in this very scene, asking an inquiry that looked at the initial approval of these recommendations on the Council of Europe. So we'll find each other again. Before I went into the matter, I wanted to thank him for the article I wanted to publish this week with regard to the summit of the Atlantic Alliance, because they would not want Catalonia to be left out of the great consensus that governs international relations and geopolitics, and that will not be in our name. Outside we act with the premise, with the responsibility that it may not be a state, many times, to act with a state mindset. But we're going into the matter. On June 21st of last year this resolution, which is Resolution 2381, was approved at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And that produced a huge earthenware at the international level that has been expanding all this year. The conclusions of this report are one of the major political defeats of the Spanish State at the international level, at the level of its image. You said a year ago, MP, in this chamber, literally: "Spain had never generated these levels of disaffection in the international community. And, as you remembered, what exactly happened the next day? So the next day it materialized what had already been announced the same day, which was that a European Union state counting on political prisoners was forced to grant some pardons to correct its image. And let us remember the percentages, which are important, with which it was approved precisely by all the European political families in this report. Fifty-eight per cent of the European popular family voted in favour; eighty-three per cent of the Socialists, not the Spaniards; eighty-yes_percent of the Liberals; one hundred per cent of the Left Unity voted for a report that equated Spain with Turkey. This happened a year ago. But we're a year later. What happened? The Council of Europe has not forgotten these recommendations. The Council of Europe continues to bet on a sincere dialogue, in accounts, as they literally say, "of the judicialization of the Catalan conflict. The Council of Europe gives this argument that since the foreign department we have been defending rau in all the meetings we have had. You can also read that we are experiencing an exceptional situation in a comparative and international perspective. There is no equivalent of Catalonia-Spain relations to the rest of the world, because democratic governments that are valiant lay down the resolution of conflicts through democracy. We know it well: the United Kingdom with Scotland, Canada with Quebec. But I would like to go into a concrete point, because it is very significant – it is very significant – that the Council of Europe, one year later, is in need of follow-up on the degree of compliment of these recommendations. Because this is not a common fact – it is not a common fact – and therefore this fact does indeed question the confidence of the Council of Europe in the democratic credentials of the Spanish State. It is not often that these revisions are produced. And it's for this very reason that the Spanish left and right, the past year also, they did – and this year too – hands and hands to prevent the Council of Europe from going back to water in Spain. They want to avoid this mistranslation and it is, in fact, absolutely understandable. Let us not forget the efforts that have been made a year ago to prevent approval of this resolution. Three associations of Spanish courts issued a statement desperately asking the State to manage so that this report did not approve. The report's rapporteur, who wanted to thank him for his professionalism and his commitment to human rights and democracy, faced countless obstacles in approving the report a year ago. And these pressures were repeated, precisely, last week. Here we are used to it, sometimes, because the filibusterism of the unionist parties is not appropriate. And, in fact, at the international level, the image they give and virulence with which they act never plays them in favor. This year, PP and PSOE are not going out at the time of vetoing the publication of the draft text presented by the rapporteur to the Commission of Legal Affairs and Human Rights. This report is conclusive, showing that there was no political will to negotiate and resolve the conflict. Spain has not done its dues. The government of the socialists and the commons has not completed. Pedro Sánchez could have reformed the anachronistic laws and with them the crimes, such as sedition and rebellion. It was possible to withdraw the Euroorders, which have entailed incontestable defeats and contradictory pronouncements in multiple European judicial systems. In fact – in fact – keep us in mind the chase and the nerve that President Puigdemont's own figure awakens, I doubt it is taking a step in this sense. Neither have the cases against the lower-ranking officials been stopped nor have they been reformed and made no attempt to depolitify an organ as delegitimized as, for example, the Court of Auditors. But in this report, the rapporteur introduces the case of "Catalangate". And I'd like us all to make a point, because it doesn't just talk about "Catalangate," it says "Catalangate" and spying operations; it says in plural, it's also a symbolic fact. And he asks what has been asked many times here in Catalonia, which is the creation of a parliamentary inquiry commission that quickly allows to investigate until the last consequences that have passed. Well, the passage of time allows you to see things with a certain distance, allows you to see what we have already seen, in fact, that the rendezvous operation does not exist. I said it a year ago myself, in interviews that we did in international media after these recommendations were adopted: perhaps it would be a good idea for the dial table to have as the order of the day, precisely these recommendations of the Council of Europe. In fact – in fact – some of us say that we do not want to talk, but they are mistaken. We want to talk to a clear objective, because they've gone through very hard and the wound is still open. And, therefore, we cannot afford a political marketing operation on behalf of the Spanish State – we cannot afford it. So, let's ask ourselves all the questions that are the least we can talk about in the national area. And here are the recommendations, precisely, of the Council of Europe. Acceptable, the Socialist Party, that this was the basis of the dialog? What's the alternative? - What's the alternative? Is Catalonia's continued underfunding also with chronic underfunding of infrastructure and other services? The Council of Europe has done its job: it has adopted a resolution that puts on the international agenda the shortcomings of the legal, political and ultimately the democratic quality of the Spanish State. From outside we will continue to denounce these facts, but the best way to continue this work that the Council of Europe has begun is to contribute among all to its visualization. In this sense, it is vital, as was also claimed by the Synod of Greuges last year and as approved in different resolutions and motions approved for this own chamber, that a follow-up committee was created on the report of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.4.0	Let's move on to the seven-point order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on policies of emission reduction and economic transition, which the Parliamentary Group of Common We can put forward. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into emission reduction and ecological transition policies]] [[302-00160/13]] It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.5.0	Thank you very much. MPs and MPs – we apologize today for the presence of the Councillor – I will begin my motion in the same way that I started the inquiry. A few years ago, the NGO Transport and Medi Ambient published a study saying that Barcelona was the city of the world most punished for the contamination of cattle; the second was Palma de Mallorca and the third was Venice. Three Mediterranean cities threatened by pollution, environmental and public health problems resulting from emissions and the tourist massificaciation of the Creuer tourism. Venice has already obtained an answer, through the Italian government, with the ban on entering the city's port. Palma has already received a response, through the Government of the Islands, with the proposal to limit the entry of creuers to a maximum of three creuers per day. And today, therefore, what we propose is that the Parliament, and especially the Government of Catalonia, take the initiative on this issue. And before the massive tourism, before the problems of public health and pollution that the tourism of creuers entails, they do as they have done the second and third most punished cities of the world, they do with Barcelona and with the ports of Catalonia the political initiative that limits the creuers to our country. The half of you who come to Barcelona are less than four hours, which converts our cities into a few more than a fast food, than cities to use and launch. More than 1 million tourists who go down to the city, make four selfies, run and collaps the centers of our cities and return home without practically having spent, without being able to enjoy with time the city and, yes, massifying our cities. And, therefore, this proposal for us is a fundamental proposal to ensure a sustainable tourism model, environmentally, economically and also veanially. Men who believe and less stay are lighting our cities. We're not cities to use and lance. And, therefore, the necessary construction of an alternative before a model that has a great environmental impact, a high venous impact and a low economic return. And, therefore, what we propose today are two agreements. The first is to limit the arrival of creuers, especially to creuers of transit to our cities. And the second is that of the tax on emissions of large ships, which is already contemplated in our law of climate change and which we believe is of justice– of justice–, because the multinationals of creuers must participate and contribute to the ecological transition, and also of justice, because it is obvious that they are one of the main contaminating focus of our cities. The third compromise we have today on the table is the demand for low-emission zones; those in the Barcelona metropolitan area, which have been driven from the local world, but also the ones that push and the criteria with which the Government of the Generality pushes them. We believe that this is a question on which there is no partyism, on which we must all stick to one in order to guarantee the public salvation and sustainability of our cities. The fourth compromise we propose today is that the Generalitat assumes public leadership in the improvement of mobility in our country, with the electrification of ports, which should help us to reduce emissions; with the priority of investments in public transport and not in private transport to our home, and with the planning of mobility alternatives such as dissuasion paths, park-and-rides, which should facilitate the interconnection between the private vehicle and public transport to the entrances of our city. And, lastly, a _five compromise, that of building a different tourism model, of the future, responsible and sustainable, that guarantees that the sector can adapt to the effects of climate change and that it guarantees its economic, venous and environmental sustainability, and that for us it is based on two questions: on the national commitment for responsible tourism and on the new tourism law that this country needs. So, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.6.0	Then, and in the defense of the papers presented, has first the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.7.0	Well, thank you very much, President. This is a young man, the result of an inquiry in the past Ple, that the inquiry..., the concrete title was "on policies of emission reduction and ecological transition. Certainly the intervention of the Member in that inquiry and therefore also in today's motion was based very much on touristic policies, especially on the impact of the cracks and on our touristic model. And the motion refers to these and other issues, such as the impact of low-emission zones and also investments linked to mobility and others, right? But it's obvious, it's true that in this young man the impact of the cracks and our tourist model has a very important part to play in the young man. And that is why, from our parliamentary group, I am the one who will defend the ideas that we have presented. We fully share, as it cannot otherwise be, the need to work towards a tourism model, a much more sustainable tourism, from the environmental point of view, from the economic point of view, from the social point of view, right? , work, walk towards a more socially responsible tourism, but also territorially. In fact, our parliamentary group has put forward various questions of respect and even we have approved some motion in this same direction, immediately the government precisely to present, therefore, the new law of tourism in Catalonia. But, frankly, I don't think we'll succeed. I think that's the truth. And, besides, I've also ratified the paper presented by the groups that support the government and have been accepted, huh? We do not see the government fully committed to promoting a new tourism law in Catalonia. Yes, it is true that it is working on an agreement, on a compromise for a more sustainable tourism. Actually, there's a scrap that runs and we can read. And this document, after reading it, I also have to say that we care a little, because it's true that it takes a lot of private sector to make this transition to a more sustainable tourism model, but, in turn, the Administration..., we take few commitments from the Administration, right? But, well, in any case, entering at the two points that we have presented, the first is in point 3, respects the tax on port emissions. What we were adding here was that, more than the tax, it was necessary to establish mechanisms to encourage investment in innovation and sustainability of the fleets to reduce, precisely, these emissions. I mean, it's not just tax, it's also more sustainable fleets. And it seems to us that it can also be encouraged in this sense. It's also true that this tax, if we're the only autonomous community with this tax... it's also true that this loses some competitiveness in our ports before other ports in the rest of the state, right? And the item number two, the other item that we presented for what he's doing at the quarter point, we also agree... and that's what we talked about a lot with the congressman, isn't it? , to establish a maximum topall for what it does at the end of the cracks. But we do have, say, the pits of traffic, those that have a duration of less than eight hours, not at the pits of inice or exit. In fact, this is politics, this is the strategy that is due to the end of the Barcelona Assembly, precisely to encourage the ups and downs that are started or outs. As a matter of fact, he's already agreed with different shipowners, and even there's already been jobs at the port compromised in this sense. I'm gonna say something, too, huh? Most of the believers who are arriving at the port of Barcelona are already gas. Therefore, it is true that the environmental impact is very different. But it's true that, for what he does to the traffic bugs, they have a big impact, they leave a big crush. And, therefore, we do want to be circumscribed only to what would be the transit creuer, not so much to the iniciator and exit, that they are tourists who in the end sleep in the hotels of Barcelona, of Tarragona or of the different ports, both to the iniciator and to the end of the creuer, that they share their visits also to the city. And so it seems to us that, while we would like to thank the Member for his willingness to reach an agreement, adding the word 'especially transit', we cannot accept it and therefore would not vote in favour of it. And that is why, President, we would ask you, if it can be, to vote separately for one band, points 1 and 4; for another band, points 2a and 3, and then the rest, 2.b, 5, 6 and 7. And more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.8.0	Thank you very much. So I've already taken note of this separate motion for a vote. And then, on behalf of the People's Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.9.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, we, as you know, have also submitted statements that have been incorporated into the two points. It is to say, that many thanks; we have come to perfection. But all this, therefore, there will be two points, which are the ones I will enter most, which we will abstain from, for the sake of the question, because it was very difficult for us to present papers because we do not share the objective of these points. And it is, in concrete terms, the low-emission zones. I mean, for us, it's a more complicated issue, and for us, it's not a consensus tool, but it's a tool that's being used, but it doesn't guarantee the goals we want. In fact, it applies to Barcelona and is intended to apply to the municipality of more than twenty thousand inhabitants on the grounds of improving the quality of the area of these cities. Because we all know that in Barcelona the quality is very bad; in fact, there are many premature deaths every year and heavy damage to the salvation of the people. And that's a reality that hasn't changed a lot, as well as implementing low-emission zones. Because the problem is, they're the cars. As much as we implement this system, the only thing we get is that the old cars, the oldest fleets, are replaced by our cars, obviously less contaminant, but also contaminant, instead of using other criteria, as for example it could be not just the contamination of each vehicle, but the kilometers that that vehicle does in the year. Because we can find, therefore, that we come and come from Barcelona, from the metropolitan area or more there have cars that it is true that they do not complete these labels that have established themselves to enter the zones of low emissions, but that these vehicles are used very little during the year. In change, vehicles that are much more efficient, less contaminant, are used every day and make many kilometers, which, in the end, end up contaminating much more than other vehicles that cannot circulate through the low-emission zones. Therefore, it is a measure that we do not have clear people that it is functional to, in fact, fight against these objectives of improving the quality of the area of these municipalities. Actually, this has to be it. As I said before, the indexes tell us that we did get a better shot, but in no case the expected targets. Actually, it's a conservative proposition, because for us, as I said before, the problem is whether it's the car. That is to say, what we have to do is disappear at the most from the car between our cities, and not do these low-emission zones, that they promote the purchase of new cars with environmental distinctions suitable for circulation, but that they also have an eco-friendly patch and that, obviously, they continue to contaminate our cities and continue to make air breathable. Therefore, for us, the policy that should be taken is a policy of making the car disappear. And that's just pacifying the streets of cities; building decent rail networks or those that we currently have, that work perfectly– and that everyone knows this isn't so–; providing affordable alternatives for everyone with this public transport, whether it's on the train, or the buses, or the trams, or even with the bicycle, and, obviously, it's a little bit like a vertebrator of real sustainable mobility. Because here we have to take very much into account that, of the millions of cars that travel daily to Barcelona, about half of them are in Barcelona that do not have enough public transport to leave this vehicle at home. And that's why, so, at this point we'll abstain. The rest of us will vote yes, because you are afraid that we will support it or that even they have already approved in this Chamber, such as the tax on large ships or the fourth report of the climate change. And to which we will also abstain is to point 6, given that it has varied with the transaction that they have made with the rest of the parties, on the subject of the law of tourism of Catalonia 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.10.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Cristina Casol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.11.0	Well, thank you, president, good day, deputies and deputies. We are in front of a young woman who links three issues related to sustainability, in areas such as low-emission zones, ports, digging and tourism. I'm going to talk to you, and I'm going to talk to you one by one, because you're going to see how, somehow, the speech has a certain connection. To begin with, low-emission zones are all our responsibility, because they actually affect a question of public salvation and with the salvation of everyone you cannot play. The WHO, year 48, defined salvation as a complete state of physical, mental and social welfare. And with this in mind, for large cities, low-emission zones improve air quality and reduce environmental contamination. This is a fact today. From the Junts Parliamentary Group we recognize the positive impact of the Barcelona Round low-emissions zone, as a tool of consensus for the protection of public health. With this I mean that we agree with what, but not so much with what, in the way it was done in Barcelona, because we understand that it would be modulating some of the measures with a more rational and progressive application. We understand that it is always necessary to do everything from rigour, science and consensus, but never from taxation and lack of dialogue. What, therefore, is a bold measure, and goes in the right direction, but it is only a first step, a first step that should be a whole set of measures. And, for this reason, we are also absolutely in favour of prioritizing investments linked to mobility, planning them, agreeing them, asking them, but also demanding them from those who do not. Because we have to be very demanding with the Government of the Spanish State, which would have to comply with the different commitments with Catalonia on the improvement of road and rail infrastructure, and which today is one of the main causes preventing an effective fight against pollution and in the face of change, the emergence of climate change. Moreover, and respect the Creuers and Creuers of the three ports of Catalonia – because in Catalonia we have three, of the ports that line: Barcelona, Tarragona and the port of Palamós –, we understand that what is necessary is to regulate with criteria and not limit. It should not be limited to limiting, but rather looking for a balance in order to obtain a positive balance between economic, labour and environmental vectors, and also to improve and seek the increment of the states to the base port, which are the ones that bring more added value. Regarding the other question, related to the compliment of the agreements, the terms and the financing of the electrification of the port of Barcelona, Tarragona and the ports of the Generalitat of Catalonia, I can exemplify, in the visits that we have carried out the deputies of the Commission of Digital Policies and Territories to the different ports, that..., to note that these jobs today are being carried out Finally, and on the last points of the motion and respect for tourism, we note that we consider it very important and necessary for our country to present to Parliament and the sector, before this year ends, the national commitment for responsible tourism, and that this commitment will have to be driven by the government to present the new tourism law the coming year. Pick up everything I said. First, it is a priority to pacify the transit of private vehicles in a rational and progressive way to reduce contamination and gain space for travellers. And also bear in mind the real public transport alternatives that are being offered from different administrations, and especially the situation of col·lapsing Rodalias for the lack of investments by the Government of the Spanish State. Secondly, it is necessary to seek the balance and regulation that brings quality, quality to the different ports of Catalonia in the offer of Creuers and Creuers to our country. The last block, finally, enguany, commends this national commitment for responsible tourism. We understand that this will be a good boost on the part of the Government for the new tourism law of the year 2023 in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.12.0	And then, in this later turn of defense of the papers presented, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.13.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Mr. Ferro, we agree, especially in that we understand as the intent of the motion, and also, naturally, in all those questions, quite, that we have granted through the transactions and items that we have discussed and closed. We're dealing with four questions loaded with the future, could we say, huh? : low emissions, environmental taxation, tourist intensity, electrification of ports. This in the mark of this positive perspective of the tourism law, which is as it was just said. In all four, in any case, there is much to say, to debate and to work for now; beyond the respective realization that we can share in the terms that are expressed, we shall not continue to speak of all four, of each of them. But, besides talking about it, we're gonna have to start making decisions, huh? It's obvious that there isn't enough old vehicle replacement for us, as there won't be enough that all vehicles or ships are electric, huh? Congestion and contamination are both complementary and unacceptable phenomena, as massive and urban degradation inevitably go hand in hand. Cities aren't, they can't be scenarios and objects of use and without measure. Cities are a living subject, a subject that demands respect and requires government. That's why it's relevant that today, as it is proposed to the motion that presents us in Comú Pode, we talk about issues, we talk about taxation and we talk about creuers – about necessary creuers, enough creuers and excessive creuers. In Barcelona we have asked – we have asked, but we do not yet have it – reports of tourist load that allow us to define criteria to direct the combination of tourist activity, from all points of view: public space, high intensity areas, tourist use habitats, public and private transport, trade and personal services, and, naturally, creuers. And when we talk about regulating the sector, also in relation to the creuers, it has to be done, precisely, to protect it, to ensure its viability. Do we all share the need to count on a tourism sector as central as it is sustainable? And do we all agree that we want a tourism that is the protagonist of the progressive compliment of the commitments made in relation to the climate change? That's why you've heard of topalls; whether it goes, or to put limits on the potential excess of a growing number of crackers, especially those that for a few hours generate a public space occupation as massively as scarcely productive, huh? Of all that this young man has, the more concrete, in any case, the more tangible and short-term is that of the approval of the new instrument of environmental taxation on the Christian activity that is preparing the Department of Climate Action. The low-emission zones still need to correct their regulation, and they need to credit their presumed environmental efficiency, today in question. Quantitative regulation of the Creuers will, of course, require agreement with and between the various public and private actors. Better, by the way, if we do all this, from a shared leadership to a non-competition. We'll all win it. In any case, I'm sure there's nothing we can gain from moving responsibility to the local administration. And that, to some extent, is what we see, a little more, cordially, Mr. Ferro. Theirs is also a certain display of contradiction, when we see something in the municipal government – and here too, of course – and they cannot agree on objectives or strategy with their socialist partners. Either we put ourselves together in defense of general interest or we lose all, except, perhaps, those who see in our ports and our cities as an inexhaustible source of benefits, these yes, without limits or topalls. There are, therefore, great programmes here, proclaiming neither great skirmishes. Let me be clear: we will not install ourselves in the complaint. We will not live with the comfortable resignation of criticism to everyone. Well, in criticism, especially, the others, always, this yes. We prefer the risk of governing. We prefer to take this risk explicitly, incorporate the cost that I have always counted, that it has to entail, knowing, in any case, that living in the great holders of the gesticulation does not give more than short-term satisfactions and useless or counterproductive results for the general interest. That is all that we, today, here, will vote in favour of all the points given in this motion – it seems to me that they are all practically – and we will realise that this is exactly the starting point in which it will be necessary to deepen, work, decide, govern; here and, I assure you, also in Barcelona, with all clarity and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.14.0	And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.15.0	Thank you, President. Members, I would like to start by thanking En Comú Puem, because again with this motion on emission reduction policies and green transition they again give the reason to VOX. Yeah, yeah, laugh. If common sense comes out! They're coming back to us with something we've been repeating for a year in the legislature. Its green legislation means pure classism against families who cannot buy a new car, against workers living on the periphery and against the tourist industry that feeds hundreds of thousands of Catalan families a year. Let's see. First they ask us that the Parliament of Catalonia recognize the positive impact of low-emission zones and that their operation be deployed in municipalities over twenty thousand inhabitants. Positive impact, for what? I say this to you: for the pockets of politicians, which receive thousands and thousands of euros per year through fines and sanctions. In just one month, 12,500 penalties have been charged in the city of Barcelona with fines that can reach 1,800_euros. I suppose you will be aware of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that annuls the municipal ordinance of the City of Barcelona, which approved the low-emission zones in 2019. The court's report itself indicates that it annuls this order for two very simple and illustrative reasons. Low-emission areas have a regressive impact on society, i.e. they end up impacting negatively on the most socio-economically vulnerable families in the territory, and not enough reports have been submitted with cost/benefit analysis of the measure and less intrusive alternatives. In other words, they ask that the Parliament of Catalonia recognize a non-existent fact. Very in line with its separatist partners in the illegal and illegitimate recognitions they have become accustomed to doing in this Parliament. Secondly, they remain committed to stealing daily bread from workers and entrepreneurs in the tourism sector with a new tax invented on port emissions. Gentlemen of Podemos, who do you think is going to get hurt by this tax? Very simple: the small traders, the local workers and entrepreneurs, who will see how the shipping companies go to ports where they pay less. Its measures reduce economic competitiveness to the Catalan economy and place and bring to economic ruin the families of our region. With regard to the electrification of the port of Barcelona, we are in favour of the gradual decarbonisation of our economy, provided it has an economic benefit for our workers and is efficient in environmental matters. At a time of social and economic emergency like this, we cannot launch ourselves into green mastodontic projects of hundreds of millions of euros without really knowing their profitability and impact on society. In conclusion, we bet to unify legislative criteria in a national tourism law that enhances the synergies of different destinations in Spain and, instead of devoting money to studies that demonize our tourism sector by increasing tourismphobia, facilitate the work of our professionals and entrepreneurs in the sector. They demonstrate, once again, that the left no longer protects the interests of the popular classes and that the left is the worst enemy of working families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.16.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.17.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well-designed low-emission zones are an effective tool to reduce pollution and emissions from transport and mobility in cities. And it has been proven and measured that they can effectively help reduce pollution and improve air quality. In Spain, the comprehensive national energy and climate plan 2021-30 sets the objective of reducing 27_million_of_tonnes of CO2 in the transport and mobility sector by 2030. And Article 14 of the Climate Change Act states that it is mandatory to implement low-emission zones in municipalities of more than fifty_ thousand inhabitants before 2023; these are – I think it has been said here before – about one hundred_ fifty municipalities, which would reach approximately half of the population of Spain. The same law also provides that low-emission zones should be implemented in municipalities of more than twenty_ thousand when certain limit values of pollutants are exceeded. If we eliminate this requirement, that there be pollution in these municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants, we can come to disproportionate or discriminatory measures, without more justification than a fight against pollution, but against the freedom of the use of the private vehicle of its neighbours. And there – there – they won't find us. Self-impose standards, make certain efforts among all of us to ensure a healthy environment, with all the determination of the world; there we will be, as we already do in Madrid. Now, impose on citizens how they have to live or how they have to move without a weighty justification, as it does in other cases, because for that they do not count with us. However, even if we have to impose certain restrictions on ourselves, it would not be wrong for those restrictions that we impose on ourselves to be made according to technical and mobility reports. They would do us a favor, at least to all of us who believe that they are sometimes necessary, and that it is therefore important that they move forward and do so well accepted by those who have to suffer those restrictions. Because low-emission areas are a necessity and should be understood as something beneficial to everyone – I understand this – but many citizens – for example, in Barcelona – have not been able to perceive it this way; on the contrary, what they have perceived is an imposition and a headache that has prevented them from travelling through Barcelona with their vehicles without giving the other alternatives. Our municipal group in Barcelona already warned from the beginning of several of its shortcomings: it was not accompanied by aid measures for updating the fleet of polluting vehicles – and this was suffered precisely by the most vulnerable ones –; there were no moratoriums for those who really needed their vehicle for their work, and in many cases a vehicle change meant an investment that they could not take on with their businesses, or even for the elderly, who in many cases could think that even a vehicle change might not be necessary for them at the time. In Barcelona City Hall we even ask that the Vall d'Hebron Hospital or the Hospital del Mar stay out of the low-emission zone for that reason. We detect deficiencies that may be more or less serious, but it is that justice also detected them. And what is serious is that, after a sentence that annulled the decree of the low-emission zones, there were those who came out to say that they would continue to sanction. In short, the fight against pollution and the improvement of air quality, we first; in the particular war, in their particular war against private transport, they will not find us. And the same thing against tourism. They are talking here about a new tax on port emissions to large ships. We have already opposed the creation of this tax during the process of the climate change law, but it is that the tourist rate already applied in Catalonia per passenger would now be added, even for stays of less than twelve hours, and the municipal charge of 1.75_euro established by the Municipal Government of Colau and the PSC. Frankly, it is difficult to see in these impositions, really, a strategy to combat pollution, and they seem much more like a strategy against the sector that promulgates the decline and harms the city. So, again, fight against pollution, whatever you want and with determination; fight against activity and progress, there do not look for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.18.0	And, finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.19.0	Thank you very much, President. Appreciate all the reviews. With the PSC, finally, we have not been able to agree, even though – and this..., I make a general reflection – it is not a seminal debate between « topalls, « limits, « preferentially, « especially – it is not a seminal debate – it is a political debate, about the need to intervene publicly before the end of the massiveity of digging in the ports of our country. The Socialist Party in the Islands has made a decision that we consider brave. I believe that there must be scope here to agree, between administrations and between port authorities, an agreement to limit the tourism of digging in our cities. And it's not a debate about dictionaries, it's a debate about public intervention. And, therefore, I wanted to make this matter clear. I have seen some Members who are very concerned about the taxation of big business. It's not worrying, the truth. Most operate under flags of convenience because they're all set up in tax havens, and this is also their flag. Here I think there are deputies who feel more like their own the flag of the Jolly Roger, the pirate flag, than the flag of their country and their cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.20.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will have a substantial time to the number 20 point of this very middle. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the territorial order necessary to guarantee food sovereignty]] [[302-00167/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the territorial order necessary to guarantee food sovereignty. It was presented by the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, and has the word to expose it to the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.21.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. President, thank you. We ask this House to vote in favour of the CUP's motion on the territorial order necessary to guarantee food sovereignty as a result of the inquiry we made, as you may recall, in the past plenary. As you see, some points have been possible to deal with the government, and others, so, despite efforts to reach an agreement, it has not been possible, as much as we appreciate the effort that has been made to find this consensus at these points. I can't refer to everything, but I'll do a little bit of different points. For what it does at the first point, it is asked this Parliament – which for us is a very central and very important point – to show its resilience to access, on the part of the sources of investment, to agriculture, and especially to the purchase of agricultural land, for the consequences that this has in the depopulation of rural areas, the destruction of social and professional fabric. And there is also a very explicit commitment, in the face of the future, to take the necessary legislative initiatives to prevent access to agricultural land. For the CUP – and we hope that it will also be shared by this Parliament – it is essential to fight against land grabbing on the part of the reversal fund. And one way of doing it is to understand that it is – in the band of popular mobilization, which is always the first tool we have – an institutional declaration of this Parliament, a position that is clear and clear of the organ where in principle the popular sovereignty that I say is collected, that asks those who only want to speculate with the property of the earth to say, with capital letters, that here they are not welcome. We can ask ourselves: will this be one of the many institutional statements that you cannot get to see any practical applicability? It seems to us that this will not be the case, and we will explain why. As you know, the funds of reversal are moving towards short-term benefits and they have an obsessive and constant mantra of the stability of the place where the investments are made – of the ‘place, which they say –, and only to convey to them the idea that there is a majority parliament that rejects its presence, for us it has a very powerful symbolic charge, because what happens in this Parliament has to have an incidence and will have it in its decisions of reversal. MPs and MPs, we cannot afford the luxury that passes us the same that passed us with housing, where the entrance of transnational corporations has had harmful consequences, and no one who has three sayings in front can deny this phrase. Do not let us pass what has passed us with habitat now pass us with land. To approve this point and to continue working with all the necessary measures so that it does not turn out to be attractive, to the reverse, to put their clusters to the Catalan Countries. We are now making an institutional statement; further ahead, we will present them – and we will also ask them for their support – concrete legislative measures. Another point of the motion that I want to make, and that we also strongly ask them to gather, is the introduction of the concept of food sovereignty in urban law. It does not exist today at the Town Planning Law specifically regarding the concept of food sovereignty, and it is time for this to change. Self-sufficiency, a vehicle for self-sufficiency in food, is a demand for broad sectors, and we can only expect this idea, which is already enormously worked in the field of ecology, to have its translation into urban legislation. And, therefore, all urban activities must take into account this idea of ensuring food sovereignty. And also connected with this more generic idea, the motion also takes back the need that, at the time of making the planning of urban planning, is making the relevant reserve of agricultural land to complete objectives of food sovereignty. Another of the points that we understand very interesting is the need to accompany an agrarian memory such as mandatory documentation at the time of any urban planning. The band of documentation that is already mandatory today, we would add this need for the municipalities to think in terms of food sovereignty. And the point is also important, because the government is going to make, once in a while, the territorial land area of Catalonia. That this plan is important; it was many years ago that this plan should have been approved and that it should emerge from the situation of infra-protection of agricultural areas in which we find ourselves. We only ask at this point to apply a law, a law that has been in place for many years without being fulfilled in the completion of the mandates it demanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.22.0	There's a word on it. to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.23.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... the CUP presents us with a motion on the territorial planning necessary for food sovereignty. Together for Catalonia we agree on the basis of the question, and in this sense, therefore, the law of territories will be very sensitive to the protection of agricultural areas, both for what it does to municipal plans and infrastructure. But the key tool is the land-sector territorial plan, which is the tool that provides for the law of agrarian spaces and that in this young man we insist that it comes within the maximum of only two months. And I take advantage of some considerations around food sovereignty. We, like you, also reject the grounds of speculation, capital, therefore, which holds agricultural land; we want a model of family farms, which are the ones that allow us to take care of the territory. But, in change, we, said that, unlike you, what we have defended is that these agricultural farms can achieve a minimum size so that they can be viable. Profitability is the key to the generational replenishment, to professionalization, to the workmanship formed, and this often happens because producers can link, take part in the transformation and marketing of their products. There's enough that the page should always be the poor trunk of this chain. And it's that you, the CUP, often have a lack of realism in dimensioning. Look, they're talking about food sovereignty, but then they're talking about energy sovereignty, but above all, they're talking about small projects, and they're talking about five megawatts. In the other sobriety, the national one, in this yes they go to the idea and do not ask us that the street demonstrations only follow reduced groups. I'll give you an example. A few days ago, the agri-food technological innovation awards, the PITA awards, and, look at the hundred and four applications from the past twenty years, those that have actually gone forward are the ones that didn't only have a good idea of negotiation, but, more than that, they focused on volume. And from here I would like to take advantage, therefore, to congratulate the winners of 2021, who are Roviroli, Cal Xulic and Groots Hydroponics, as well as all the rest of the distinctions. The pandemic, first, and the invasion, then, have shown us the importance of food self-sufficiency. But I ask myself: Can Catalonia really be, can it really absolve sovereignty, full food sovereignty? Hardly. Protecting the agricultural areas and increasing them defend the movement and defending all of us, but in Catalonia we produce only forty per cent of our food needs. We have half the agricultural area per capita in relation to the European average. We could double the area of conreus and pastures with good forest management, which, in fact, is essential for the control of fire risk and for the optimization of water use, but it is estimated that that would not be enough. It would be hot for us to radically change our diet, for one band, and for the other, it would be hot for us to give up a whole agri-food and carnage industry that also brings us a great deal of wealth, thanks, above all, to its export capacity, and that is doing its dues in terms of sustainability. You mean that's really what we want? And while agriculture is advancing towards a model that combines high productivity with sustainability– and soc from which I think the ecological and conventional model converged–, we take into account that there are now 8_million inhabitants, more than 20_million tourists in the year that we also need to feed. Together for Catalonia we defend that we must do everything possible to lie down to this food sovereignty, and this means, therefore, diversifying, i.e. fair prices, means reducing this thirty per cent of food mismanagement, i.e. valuing, and much, the agricultural potential of peri-urban areas, such as Lower Llobregat, as Amsterdam does; but all this is done with facts and with realism. Perhaps what we need to do is focus more on being a key, essential, exemplary actor in the feeding of this world more or less globalized, and not so much on believing that we can function as a completely shut-down autoarchic system. And I'd like to take advantage of the seconds that I have left to congratulate Pastora Marina, de Bruguera, of ninety-five years, who is the oldest working pastor in Catalonia and who has given her the Creu de Sant Jordi this week. From here, Marina, many congratulations. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.24.0	And then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Alba Camps has the words in the defence of the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.25.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. I want to start this intervention with a statement: food is a right. And in the same way that we cannot afford urban speculation, neither can we afford the speculation of agricultural land, as Mrs Vinyets also commented. If we don't have pages, if we don't have land to grow, there's no life, neither rural nor urban. And, therefore, a yes round to the democratization of food, a yes round to the protection of this good, clear and diaphanous. We cannot allow speculation with people's rights, such as thinking of a demerchantizing view of the crops and products that are coming. I have said this on various occasions, both speaking of the rural world and of the pagesia, of agriculture, of ramaderia... The rural world we are the ones who feed and protect around. In theory, in no case should we have a disadvantage in relation to other more urban areas. The origin of inequality is the usurpation, for other interests, of one of our most valuable and distinctive features: the productive function of the rural world. Our lands, our surroundings, have given in the last years an answer to an industrial and urban logic. We've lost the ability to decide what we're growing, to decide where the raw materials come from, to decide which food is the object of the camp. As with consumers, we have also lost the ability to choose what we eat and what we buy. And it doesn't end up feeling a conscious decision, because they have taught us to buy cheap and cheap, not just for lack of will, but many times for lack of opportunity, when what we have to guarantee are fair prices, both for consumers and for pages, criteria that have come into industrial logic with a simple calculation of costs and benefits. And the problem is that we're not only moving away from food sovereignty, but that the models that dominate reduce the most expensive resources to continue feeding us: water, soil and biodiversity. Do not think about the medium and long term can only take us to the col·lapse. Understanding food as a commodity and not as a right affects not only depopulation, but also accelerated rise in inequality and injustice in capital letters. The lack of availability of agricultural land is a fact. Social, political and economic value has not been given to agricultural land. We have prioritized urbanism only to build and, frankly, we have lost a lot. Completely agree, therefore, to say that it is necessary to protect what remains of us. Totally agree that it is necessary to protect those product models that bring additional and impossible values to disconnect from rural logic; sustainability in all senses: social, environmental and economic. Other times, clear and clear, according to the young man, the earth here is working. The Agrarian Law of 2019 already goes that way. Just traces the full route that must guarantee the mobilization of the agricultural space, ensure the defense of the rural world and become an opportunity for the youth's presence and future. In this sense, together with the agricultural organizations, they started work for the inn at the expense of the land register, a phone book to reduce the abandonment of the land and facilitate the incorporation of us actius. And two more elements to take into account: the new territorial law and the drafting of the land sector territorial plan, two great planning instruments that need to define what we are and what we want to be like the country, which model we buy and promote. And you don't have any doubts, Republican Left bets on family models, sustainable and fair. Aware of everything we have discussed, the corresponding departments come forward with proposals to respond to this situation. We have good examples in and out of the Administration; such as, for example, the public-community collaboration of the Xarxa for Central Catalonia's Food Sovereignty or the testing spaces or pagesia incubators to promote the generational replenishment. Last but not least, a thought. What if we don't have land? What if we continue to lose the page every day we go through the unjust conditions in which they live? The answer is easy: let's stop eating and let our surroundings die. This will happen if we don't do anything to avoid it. In fact, it's already passing in a certain measure. We find ourselves in a situation of inflation, a situation of dearth of food prices for the current crisis. The question is, would we be in a situation if we had full food sovereignty? Of course not. In the end, thank you for the CUP's willingness to accept the submitted submissions and trade some of them. We want to hear this young man as an opportunity, an agreement of this Parliament to advance towards this food sovereignty and, therefore, to advance towards greater social justice, decent work and right to salvation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.26.0	And after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.27.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, it is clear that agricultural activity has been declining in our country, and this has different consequences. It has consequences on the surface and, therefore, on the ability to provide food in a sufficient way to the citizenry. It has consequences on biodiversity loss, on the advancement of forest mass and, therefore, on the increase of the fire risk. And it can also produce a change in the model of agricultural operations: if there is no generational replenishment, the farms can end up in the hands of large corporations or investment funds. They own dice. According to the Atles del mondo rural, in 1900 a 44.6_percent of the occupied population was dedicated to agricultural activity; in 1975 it was almost a set_per_cent; and in 2020 it is a 1.7_per_cent. It's a pretty flattering fact, isn't it? But there is also one thing to take into account, and it is that the agricultural area used on farms has increased from 2009 to 2020 in one, almost four_per_cent. In other words, the farms that end up are larger because they need to be profitable economically and, therefore, because young people and young people do not want to go, they must be able to earn a decent living, and this has much to do with the size of the exploitation, also with the need for farmers' and producers' organizations and the selling prices of agricultural, land-based products. And when we hear this, as we say, much to see with the future of the Catalan agricultural sector and also with food sovereignty. In fact, the concept of food sovereignty has been on the table in the last few years, and we believe that this concept, which can have different readings or different approaches, from the quality or quantity of food produced to the supply of citizenship, but also to the quality. Therefore, in our view, this concept of food sovereignty should be defined in particular if it is related to possible regulations – and then I will refer to it. To the motion that they initially presented to us, there was this declarative part and then a more concrete part of it, wasn't there? In the declarative part they were talking about the fund of investments, and we can agree with you that the model of a lot of land in a few hands is not the best option– we agree, it is not our model. Now, they were calling on this initial motion to give up the land that has been acquired by small agricultural professionals, but they would not give to whom they should give up, nor as they have done, nor if they should be compensated for this ceasing. This text, as it were, has disappeared in the final motion. He followed the motion talking about prioritizing, or he kept talking about prioritizing the land to young farmers who had economic and proximity projects. Eco-farming is moving forward, that's right. Now, can we guarantee food sovereignty from the point of view of providing enough food for all citizens through ecological agriculture? We don't think so, and we can't afford it either. To the band that, approving this point, in our opinion, was against the same law of agricultural areas, which established as a priority collection to access the young people's lands, but did not side with the young people with ecological projects. Follow the motion, or follow the motion saying that it is clear the need to preserve the entire agricultural soil of any urbanizing process. Look, I don't know what the mayors of Catalonia would think, do I? , because one of the most important problems facing the people of Catalonia today is precisely access to housing. If we can't do any kind of urbanization process that expands the urban nuclei of the people of Catalonia, then I don't know how to solve this problem, do I? And from the second part of the motion we agree on the need to preserve the agricultural soil, for us what has a high agricultural value, already for the foods that are produced, already for the public investment that has been made to turn the land into fertile. You say that it is necessary that the municipal planning plans reserve enough agricultural land to complement the objective of food sovereignty. As I said before, first of all we should ask ourselves what objective of food sovereignty we must complete: that of the municipality, that of the region, that of Catalonia sencera? It's what I gave them before: if we don't define who this goal is, we can hardly force the municipalities to complete it. Depending on how we define it, this object can be completed or not. And it will also depend on the municipality: whether it has a lot of rustic land or not urbanized in order to complete it or not. Totally agreed that the land sector plan is being developed and approved. Now, doing urban planning moratoria until the plan is approved seems not feasible to us, they know the speed of action of this government, because this would completely paralyze the development of rural municipalities. In short, many points of this young man believe that we can vote in favour of them, also thanks to the papers that have been presented by the groups that are giving the Government recollection, that we believe they have made it more acceptable, but we are very afraid that it will end up with a toast to the sun and that it will not be, let us say..., it will not be carried out in an effective way. We must walk towards food sovereignty, it is obvious, and we must do so with realistic proposals, and always, in these cases, they will find us at their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.28.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.29.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and welcome to you all. Welcome, because they're landing on the path of common sense. Welcome to the defense of energy sovereignty, industrial sovereignty and food sovereignty; ultimately, Spain's national sovereignty. Something that we have been defending for a long time in VOX, while you laughed and criticized us. That is why seeing others come to our own conclusions, after having criticized them previously, gives us enormous satisfaction. However, they are wrong about something fundamental: the only possible energy and food sovereignty is Spanish. Today we are faced with a CUP motion that seeks to guarantee food sovereignty. A motion based on that horrendous circle of colors called the 2030 agenda, that agenda that all it does is impose more and more abusive taxes, overregulations and bureaucratic obstacles, while the products that come from outside require nothing. You are dealing with climate terrorists to our farmers, farmers and fishermen, in short, to our entire primary sector, just for doing your job, and all because those ecologists who have never seen the countryside and who do not know how to distinguish a goat from a sheep. Even I believe that some people believe that there are gamusinos. You are more anxious to satisfy the new leaders of feminist religions and climate hysterism than to help our people in the countryside. It's about our economy, it's about our food sovereignty, it's about our way of life, which you're criminalizing and bringing to the brink of ruin. If you really want food sovereignty, you must ensure the supply of raw materials and supplies for farmers, without short-term price changes harming the sector; you must eradicate unfair competition, value our product against third-country products; you must ensure that all foreign products entering our market do so with the same rules, taxes, prices and requirements; you must promote generational relief through economic measures, fiscal, administrative and technological measures; you must ensure the profitability of agricultural holdings and the value of our products; you must actively promote an administrative and bureaucratic simplification process; you must defend and protect our farmers with direct aids for sulphates, insecticides; you must lower taxes and taxes in the sector; you must empower with subsidies and direct aid to young people engaged in agriculture and livestock farming. These measures and many more we have been asking for for a long time, more than a year. And we'll keep doing it as many times as we need to. And all those measures where they must demand them are in the Council of Government and its partners in the Government of the nation. Don't forget that the people in the countryside are the people who take care of us. Take care of our environment, our biodiversity, make us eat in our homes; in short, it is those who care for us and on whom we all depend. In VOX we have it very clear, and that is why we will always be at your side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.30.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.31.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, we will vote in favour of this young man; most of all, with the exception of some point in which we will abstain. I wanted to take advantage of it, for that reason, to make three reflections. The first, about this young man's own concept, which is that of food sovereignty, which we have seen as different parliamentary groups have put it in the mouth, and I understand, therefore, that there are some perceptions or approaches to this concept. So, what is food sovereignty? Do you have to define what the objective is to answer the farming activity and under what system it produces? Do you see self-benefit, with the maximum economic profit, with maximum output, regardless of economic value and little diversification? So, there's a lot of questions, and I think we should kill who the approximation is, right? For us, sovereignty is to be able to decide. And, therefore, that the citizens of Catalonia can participate and have decision-making capacity on five methods of production and organization of the territory and on the right to food. The second reflection is on the territorial planning tools, which is basically what this movement is about and which we fully share, huh? We fully agree with incorporating the concept of food sovereignty into urban legislation, which is, in fact, legislation, which is in force, which is not the year 2002 and which, therefore, comes years later... And, therefore, it was a concept that we did not actually have on the political agenda for the past 20 years, and therefore we could update it and also have mechanisms at the municipal level to incorporate this analysis into municipal interventions, also within the area of territorial planning. In fact, as has already been said, the land law provides for an instrument that is key in this sense, which is the land sector plan. Our parliamentary group three years ago – exactly three years ago – as of July 2019, we presented a motion, which was approved, in fact, in this chamber, in which we already asked the Government, therefore, that urgently deployed the sectoral territorial plan previews the law of the land, and beginning – because it also previews, the law, to be able to narrow it down to specific territories – for those territories that most need it, such as the Lands of the Ebro, the Lands of Lleida, the Upper Pirineu, the Vallès, the Vall d'en Bas or the Penedès. Well, it's been three years. I don't remember exactly how many months we agreed with the government in that youth. I don't know if they were new. It's been three years and we don't have that. Therefore, we should put the batteries in this sense. To say also, in relation to the youth, also, that, if the instruments of ordering of the territory are very important to affect the agricultural activity and the food sovereignty, they are not the only ones, are they not? And, in this sense, we do believe that we need to think about other measures; measures such as others that provide for the first law of agricultural land, such as, for example, the land register to identify agricultural land and branches in waste and to be able to act on it. But many other measures that could be promoted in the defence of the sector, such as, for example, or, above all, all those that have to do with agricultural prices, which are essential for us to be able to move the sector forward. In fact, in rural Catalonia, which is empty Catalonia, it is not and cannot only be agricultural and wooded Catalonia, but the territorial management of this empty Catalonia goes so far as to understand that this must be a productive territory and that the primary sector must be viable and sustainable, right? We have to understand that agriculture, treachery, forestry, play a key role, not only from the perspective of food sovereignty, but also from the perspective of sustaining our lives in cities, and also from the perspective of the preservation of the landscape, of biodiversity, of the prevention of fires, as other Members who have spoken before me have said. Therefore, measures are reduced, beyond the planning of the territory, in order to defend agriculture, treasuries and also forestry. And the last thought was to get her to talk about the geographical diversity of the country, which I think this young man doesn't get in there and in some points is contradictory, because they want to generalize some measures that may not be or that would not be convinced that it is generalissin. It is not the same as the Bergedà as the Penedès or the Camp de Tarragona, that the High Pirinaeus, that the plain of the Vallès. I, therefore, cannot act in the same way. And some of the proposals that are made in this young man, surely they can have a lot of sense in the area of Vallès, but maybe they don't have that much sense in other parts of Catalonia unpopulated, right? And you have to see how to deal with a phenomenon, which is the loss of agricultural land, right? – 45,000 hectares we lost in the last fifteen years – that you have to see with two realities. One is the urbanization processes that have... and that threaten the agricultural space to plans, especially, and to metropolitan areas. But this is not the main risk that agricultural space has today, but that is important and that we have to face, the one that is consuming, the one that is ending up with the country's agricultural space, especially the forest, is the growth of the forest by leaving productive lands. Therefore, here too we have to think of measures as to how to act there. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.32.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.33.0	Thank you, President. This CUP guy made me look at the calendar. After I did, I had a double feeling. I could see that, indeed, time is passing – at least for me – I could see that today is June 30, 2022. But, look, I also have to confess that I wouldn't have done anything today that was early in the summer of 1982, as the group proposing this young man seems to think, because perhaps they didn't fit in: the Soviet Union has been dissolved a long time ago in a Russian federation and in a succession of independent states. In any case, this young man is presented by the CUP and, therefore, we are not surprised that he has a certain Stalinist profile, are we not? But, look, whatever they want me to tell you, the camp collection model that consolidated Stalin's Soviet Union is not a viable model either we want it or we need it for nothing. Even everyone who lives in the present Russian Federation, despite Putin's delusions, has already forgotten the kolkhoz and the sovkhoz. Neither collective farms nor state farms: the present Catalonia, both in Spain and in the European Union, does not need or want a Stalinist view of agriculture. The young man often speaks of guaranteeing food sovereignty. In fact, ask for a territorial order to guarantee it. In this of food sovereignty, they coincide even with the position of a parliamentary group as misguided as the Parliamentary Group of VOX; it must be where the extremes are touched. But, look, the Spaniards, inclusive Catalans, look with great concern at the criminal action of the current hero of Soviet Stalinism, the former KGB, the satrap Putin, because they do not arrive the cereals that should come from Ukraine in flames for the aggression of the Russian army. Therefore, talking about food sovereignty today is a joke of displeasure, and more so when a parliamentary group comes up with it than perhaps the time of the Soviet agrarian collectivism. Because those who really learn the times of the Soviet dictatorship and who have imposed a new dictatorship on the Russian people, have made it even clearer to us that the world is very intradependent and that we also have many dependencies and very concrete with third parties in food. This young man has an absolutely ideological view of the questions he raises. Even all the groups that could best hear the extremes of their plans, perhaps not because there is a full ideological coincidence, but because there is a community of interests that we were able to see now a little more than a year ago with the investiture of Mr. Aragones, do not just buy the markedly Stalinist layout that counted his young lady. So it's from the papers that the government groups have presented. Maybe it's because, even if he's a bad government, he still climbs from a few to the ground, even though he's just pointets. By specifically entering the motion that is presented today, you may have erased the motivating statement. For two questions: because it is not the object of the final vote of the motion, since only the operative part is voted; but also because it will neither go nor go anywhere, since it will not only be part of the final motion nor will it be published in the motion that is finally approved. Your initial motion – it's no surprise if I tell you – does not fit people or even the ideological view of the issue we have from our parliamentary group. In addition, I looked at the Mirall, I recognized myself, I looked back in time and I adapted – and this coincides with the rest of the members of my parliamentary group – that we live in 2022, that the world is every time more global, that food sovereignty, even though it is defended by other parliamentary groups in this Parliament, as now the group with which they are playing for the extreme, the VOX Group, is an authentic idea that there is no point in grabbing it, as we are demonstrating, unfortunately for everyone, the terrible war that Putin, the invader, has unleashed in Ukraine. Certainly, all support and solidarity with the Ukrainian people and the strongest condemnations of the regime installed in the Kremlin. But people support his initial motion. For what it does to the final motion that 'presents itself, it has improved a little the text with some of the papers presented for the government. Their members of the legislature have arranged for them a little bit, which makes us get to vote a few points in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.34.0	And finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parable of the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.35.0	Thank you. I won't repeat it in russ, I'll do it in català. Mr Vergés, what did the CUP sin? Is the fault of the farming world's problems really the CUP? Or so, you... to me it seemed, from your intervention, that you came to say that. I want to remind you how many years you have been in the government of this country and how many concrete measures you have taken to support agricultural policies. I don't know if when you're talking about Catalonia, you're referring to these urbanizing processes that you do in protected areas and then you're laying the 16th-century mass in the middle of a roundabout, to say that the thing... I don't know if this is the Catalonia of Pessera. I believe that his intervention has been in these terms to cover the most basic and important thing, and it is that here there was a work to be done, which was the land sector plan. And I want to remember that the obligation to do this plan doesn't come from 2019, it goes much earlier. This plan of the year 83, of the law of linguistic policy, passes through the territorial plan of 95, and 2012 there was-there was an express forecast that had to be made at the end of a year. So... oh, come on, we're very late. In any case, we congratulate you on taking over the glove and telling them to do this plan within two months. As we also welcome the fact that they are also doing the law on the planning of the territory, which we also have in the country from years ago; in fact, they made a preliminary project in 2017 that was left there covered with poles in the country. And we also welcome the fact that you are taking cards to the assumption and shooting at these two normative figures, which seem very important to us and which are necessary for today. Yes, it is true that we have not reached agreement in terms of the moratorium. For us it was very necessary, because, as the Member of Parliament reminded us, commitments sometimes widen and we want this moratorium until it is over. It wasn't possible; well... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.36.0	Well, so I'm done with the debate, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to have a place this middle, a solid time on the 20th of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impetus of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors]] [[302-00161/13]] Let's move on to the division of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into the impulse of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors. It was presented by the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group for Progress, and has the word, to make the presentation, by Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.37.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In the first place, let's, before we begin to explain a little bit of this motion that we bring today to approval, say hello to the entities that come back with us, just as they did a few weeks ago, at the time of the inquiry—that these entities are precisely the engine that has made us present the inquiry and this subsequent young man—for their great task in the day-to-day, for the patience that they generate there, not only the fact that an esteemed person has disappeared, but also the fact that this person is not found and seen, on many occasions, that the Administration still has work to do. Entities that see, as they commented at the time, that there are 3,500 denunciations every year, and that at these times, moreover, there are 2,500 open shippers, missing persons who have not found themselves. And we have to think that every person who disappears, every open expedition, also means that it's an open wound in a family. As we advanced in the inquiry– and you, counselor, agreed–, we agreed that it was time to take a step forward, which would broaden the range of services and resources in policies on missing persons. And with this intention to expand, to improve these policies towards these missing people and the attention given to their families, we have presented this motion; to try to implement prevention measures, to improve resources, to locate, and do so in the shortest possible time, those people who disappear, but also to accompany families throughout this process. We have already said that it was a cross-cutting issue, that it did not only affect the Department of Interior – certainly mainly yes, but not only – but it also covered aspects of justice, sanitation, social rights. Therefore, we understand that more instruments, more resources are needed, but also more organization and planning. Therefore, seeing the wide scope of this theme, it is obvious that the motion also had to be extensive, with detail and concreteness. Because we tried not to take generic measures, but to go to the specialties. We tried to follow the item that has a family since a person disappeared and went to the police station until the end of the case was resolved. And that's why we proposed a whole set of measurements. They are more than twenty; therefore, I will not point them out one by one, but we will do them in a general way. The first is the drafting of a comprehensive law on missing persons. We understand that it is very important that families are familiar at all times, and the Administration also, of whom are the obligations and the dues, and what means they hold to their abyss. Now that I see that Mr Rafel Bruguera has entered, to whom I greet, a person referring both to the Senate and to this Parliament in these matters, we must say that a part of these measures come, on the basis of the law and the motion that was approved at the time at Mr Bruguera's instigations. Second, measures in the area of police investigation. Improve the media that the Central Unit of Disappeared Persons of Mossos has at these times. Expand these services, because at these times it is only too narrow. Therefore, we believe that we need to expand so that it is a specific, specialized unit. Therefore, they tend to be more or better than those who can hold the police basic areas, especially in those more specialized themes. With regard to police basic areas, as well as specific training with a coordinating responsible person, it is necessary to approve unified performance protocols for all PBAs and, in addition, to create all the spaces, agreements and arrangements to be able to relate and coordinate among other departments of the Generality, but also with other administrations or entities. A third sector... we understand that this is important. These standards pretend to be not only present, but also future, and, therefore, we have made a standard block in which to publish data annually, but above all to create, approve a global strategic plan and also the creation of the work table, which is what we must allow to follow it up – composed of entities, departments and also parliamentary groups – and foreshadow future policies. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I just want to say that for us, this issue is very important. So important that – in the transactions you will see, but already in advance – we have all the subject of forced disappearances of minors, because we understand that they are already at a higher rate, they already have their own law, and therefore that this would make it difficult for the young person to approve, but above all the application of this young person. We understand that people have to be individually identified, that we need all these better, because if it is very difficult for families to live on the day-to-day absence of a loved one, it must be more difficult if they do not have the conviction that the Administration is laying the maximum of its interest and resources to find these people. Therefore, we understand that this young man today is laying the groundwork for improving the quality of service for these families and, therefore, we would ask everyone to vote in favour of the young woman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.38.0	Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the first word, Mr Matías Alonso of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.39.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that, while we have looked at the initial motion with detention, we have not just heard the reason why the initial draft of this motion presented to us by the PSC at June 2022. The initial text of the motion seemed to speak of the enforced disappearance of minors, in the line of which it was already contemplated in Law 16/2020, of 22 December, of the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, in which I myself participated in the debate that debated it and presented it for approval in committee and in full of this Parliament, and of which the rapporteur, Mr Rafel Bruguera, was put, who today accompanied us from the rostrum. Actually, I don't know if Mr. Bruguera presented exactly today with his initial report. Maybe I do, I don't know. Either way, we have what we have. A motion prepared for the PSC, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, in which appears more than one of the nationalist tics that mass often characterizes the political language of the Socialists of Catalonia. That is why, from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, we continue to defend that Catalonia is an autonomous community, that we believe that there is only one born from the constitutional point of view, from the sovereign point of view, that it is the Spanish nation, that we believe and defend that from the constitutional point of view in Spain there is only one and no more. That's why, I said, City we've submitted two add-ons of two preliminary points to the initial motion – which, of course, have not been accepted. The first of our questions asked included a preliminary point that I made clear that the Catalonian Parliament supports all actions aimed at resolving cases of stolen babies during the franchise and immediately subsequent years, as an indispensable measure of repair to the pain caused. But the second of Ciutadan's reviews wanted to focus on some of the aspects of this movement that are unclear. And today, June 30, 2022, we are talking about forced disappearances of majors and minors who may occur, that these disappearances are currently to be dealt with as criminal crimes of kidnapping, of compliance with the legal order and in full dependence on justice. And, therefore, the way to confront them is not to make a new law, or perhaps to make Spain see that – I don't know if this was the end, I doubt it, but in any case it seems like it –, in Spain of 2022, with a government of Spain encapsulated for the Matrimonial Party of which this young man, encapsulated for the PSOE, there are forced disappearances as if we were to Argentina of the military dictatorship in the period from 76 to 83 or to the Xile of Pinochet, in the seventies of the past century, which is what may be up to seem at some point, with a curous reading, therefore, its initial drafting. Mirin, gentlemen of the PSC, this young man follows the style of drafting separatist parties according to the Government of the Generality. In fact, they have presented a lot of papers that are mostly in the morning, but that have finally been introduced to the final draft of the motion. And to give to hear, as it seems to the initial writing of this young man, that Spain is the most normal to disappear, whether big or small, we don't like people or not. And we don't understand how this view was part of the cosmovisión that defended the Socialists of Catalonia in their initial writing of the young man. Another question of style that is no less is the follow-up they make of separatism, presenting Catalonia as a different territory, perhaps unique, that few or people have to see with the rest of Spain. They speak in this motion of a lot of collaborations on behalf of the Generality, and more concretely of the Mosso d'Esquadra, without there being the slightest reference, in its lençol– this is indeed a lençol, Lords of Podem –, to the National Police or to the Civil Guard – the first separatist line signed for the PSC. Two things to finish. The High Court of Justice is not an organization of the third sector. What is this about telling the High Court of Justice how to exercise its jurisdictional function? What is it that you want to impose protocols on courts of any kind? We must remind you that sometimes there are people who want to disappear, who want to break personal and family bonds voluntarily and consciously. And those who do that, they have all the right. I've already told you, I don't know if Mr. Bruguera would have presented this young man with his initial report. In any case, since the final text of the motion has been written earlier for the Government of the Generality, the current one, not the game that the PSC wants to make see that it is, it is clear that you, more than a government, more than anything else, are not opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.40.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mrs. Jeannine Abella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.41.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, very good morning. Much of the success of politics, or the key, if not, to be a good policy, consists of empathizing with the situation or with the subject on which we have to make a decision and think about what transcendence it will have on the day to day of the people to whom it affects. The subject we are dealing with today is particularly sensitive and, as such, has been worked on. And from here I want to thank the good predisposition of MP Apparicio and MP Sanz, for the debate we have had, which has given place to the best of the text that will be approved today. And speaking of empathizing, before I enter the background of the question, I would like to greet and send all the strength to the family members of all the disappeared who are to live with so many unanswered questions, because it is a sense and a way of life imposed by circumstances, which only those who found themselves can hear. The first aspect that we considered to be part of the Junts for Catalonia was to destrange, on one side, the disappearances of persons without apparent cause, and, on the other side, the enforced disappearances of minors, which if anything they have is cause. Therefore, we have focused the motion on the issue of disappearances without apparent cause. Does that mean he's not working on the forced disappearance of minors? No, it's the other way around. We consider that they must be treated not only as disappearances, but as a matter of democratic memory, as an action more than that Francoism and post-Franchism that makes judgments of value about who deserves and who does not have a child, and, above all, as an exercise of restorative justice to all those seas and families that, under the circumstances, someone considered that he could dispose of what more can be estimated as a couple, which is his own child. In December 2020, the law of enforced disappearance of minors was passed in Catalonia, and during this 2022 the office of the victim of enforced disappearance will be set aside, with the corresponding allocation of resources and the regulatory deployment. It has been a complex and inter-departmental coordination job, and that, moreover, has been affected by those who today say they are in a hurry. And it's thanks to Mr. Miquel Iceta and the unconstitutionality appeal he proposed – not dealt with, yes, because he ended up agreeing – that the law was frozen for almost a year. With regard to today's agreements, I think the main success is the fact that a draft comprehensive law on missing persons is being drafted that will regulate all services related to missing persons without apparent cause. Highlight the increase of personal and material resources of the Central Unit of Investigation of the Squadron Mosses. It will also improve and detail the annual report that is presented on the data of missing persons. Always, however, respecting what the Mosso d'Esquadra recommends in order not to interfere in the course of investigations. Create in a three-month period the work table. Here, the anecdotal point: that, from the outset, the group proposing to us asked that it is faith in new months, and the groups that we support the Government we entered an item that is so alone in three months, because it has been working there for a long time. An action protocol will be drafted for reports of disappearances at all levels: basic police areas, victim care offices, primary care centres and child care teams. And, in addition, the possibility of modifying the Catalan Civil Code will be studied in order to assess the inclusion of a figure you live in, and, if they get out, manage the assets of the disappeared people. I'm done. The aim of Juntes for Catalonia and of the movement itself is very clear, and it is from the moment a family files a report of disappearance, that this look at the band and band and it feels gathered, well advised and, above all, that it has the certainty that from all the competent institutions all resources and efforts are allocated to find that missing person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.42.0	And finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the words of the deputy Mrs Raquel Sans, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.43.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, Entities, Family of Disappeared Persons who today accompany us, company Rafel Bruguera, who today also follows us, today we are debating a motion to address a problem that generates a lot of patience. It's about, as my associates have said, disappearances without apparent cause. I would like to begin by thanking the MP Aparicio of the PSC, who has presented this motion, and on behalf of Esquerra Republicana, who wanted to give thanks for having traded – also to the compañera Jeannine Abella, of Junts per Catalunya – various points so as to focus the motion on disappearances without cause apparently, leaving behind, as the compañera also said, the forced disappearances of minors, who, let us remember, already have a first law; a law which we approved in the last Ple of the previous legislature, and which is now also pending, as is said, from the development of regulations, also from the creation of this office, and which we agree with the need, therefore, that there has been a certain fact in this. Because, as the companion also said, behind these disappearances, there is a whole structure, a whole cause, and that it must, therefore, treat separately the disappearances without apparent cause, right? In one case, we are talking about a very serious violation of human rights, and, therefore, this specificity in its treatment. If we focus specifically on this case and, therefore, on disappearances without apparent cause, we need to know that 2021 was filed in Catalonia 3,333 complaints, of which a third were less than thirteen years old, with the vulnerability that this implies. And we also have to say that one of the three people who disappeared were people with mental health problems, right? Also many great people, people, therefore, who suffer Alzheimer's. I, therefore, also these characteristics of the people who disappear. Sometimes, here, in this pharystoll, we give chiffons, and it costs to hear 'in the magnitude, right? Are three thousand three hundred thirty-three many? So look, they're between god and twelve reports of disappearance every day. Every day, in Catalonia, between gods and twelve denunciations of disappearances. Most of these cases..., we have figures: in fact, more than noranta_per_cent have been resolved. There is nothing that can be solved in a few hours, in other months or years, but there is no minority that will never be resolved. According to data from the Squadron Mosses, there are currently more than 1,800 cases of more than twelve months and about 750 more than five years. Do you imagine more than five years of patience because you don't know anything about your mother, who went out to buy the father, or you don't know anything about her son of a year, who was playing at the park on the side of the house? One might think that solving more than one percent of the cases is an acceptable xifra. It is obvious that it is not, that it is not, in any case, because we are not talking about numbers, but about people, about people of families, who, for the most part, many of them will have to live with the uncertainty of what has happened, that they will not be able to stop the pain, that they will have to live on the phone in case that trick that will give them news about the missing person. If you haven't seen it, I highly recommend that you recover the Sense fiction program that carries by title "Wait time, where this question is addressed. And without entering, as Congressman Apparicio said, in the seat of the young man, in the most technical part of the young man, because there are many points, what we do have to say is that they all went to improve the pocket of the Mosso d'Esquadra in the investigation and also in the accompanying that is made of the families. Since the Republican Esquerra Group, we would like to highlight and highlight the work that already takes place on the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in this sense. In fact, the year 2014 was put into operation the Office of Assistance to Families of Disappeared Persons, aimed especially at cases that have no apparent cause, where people like the Conchi González follow each other, who accompany us also here today, who four years ago looking for his brother Oscar, from Santa Coloma de Gramenet. We also want to remember that this Parliament approved that March 9th was the Day of Disappeared Persons, and therefore the data, the reports and all the papers are presented. It is obvious, however, that, despite all the work being done, there is a lot of way to go, and therefore, motions like this have and will always have the support of the Republican Left. Because while there's only one disappearance, we have to work because we can solve it as quickly as possible. And for this to provide resources and tools for security, coordinate, generate protocols, establish collaboration dynamics and make this follow-up both psychologically and legally to families. That's what this young man is looking for. And so, after we can deal practically all the points, we'll give it support, because we understand that it's a young man who's going to make these people's lives better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.44.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.45.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this very extensive SGP motion initially covered two main areas of action. On the one hand, the disappearance of persons without apparent cause, and, on the other hand, that which they call "forced disappearance of minors in Catalonia", to the emperor of the Catalan Law 16/2020 of 22 December, but which in the end seems to have been extracted from the text of the motion, we believe with good judgment. With regard to the disappearance of persons without apparent cause, we are going to give general support to all measures aimed at giving more resources to the Mossos d'Esquadra in their search for missing persons and accompanying their families in a trance as difficult as the disappearance of a family member, because it seems to us to be a fundamental issue. On this point, however, we will not support measures to promote autonomous rules, because we believe that this issue of disappearances must be regulated at national level. When a person disappears, there are no valid internal borders, and what is important is to strengthen the mechanisms of action of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the National Centre for Missing Persons and the State security forces and bodies. And, in that sense, we were surprised that the PSC has not put forward any proposals on this issue of the collaboration of the Mossos with other state security forces and bodies. Nor were we going to support the measures that involved the creation of new agencies, offices or tables, which in the end have also been withdrawn from the text of the motion, because we understand that the Mossos already have an office for the care of families of missing persons since 2014 and a specific unit specialized in missing persons. There is therefore no need for more structures, but for those that already exist to be strengthened. And, thirdly, there are four measures contained in the original points of the motion – paragraphs 13, 14, 21 and 22 – that we will not support, because, in our view, even with the modifications that have been made with the amendments negotiated, they are or may be a violation of fundamental rights and an illegitimate interference in the private sphere of people, citizens, which only a judge can authorize. In these four points, the Government is urged to sign such agreements as may be necessary for the Mossos d'Esquadra to have access to medical data, to pharmaceutical data prescribed to a person, to his mobile phone or to his location, without considering that such access can only be authorized by the judicial authority on a case-by-case basis; it would not even be feasible to carry out a protocol with the TSJ Governing Chamber, because the governing chamber has governmental functions but has no jurisdictional functions. Access to such data without judicial authorization may constitute an offence against privacy, provided for and punishable by the Criminal Code. Therefore, when a person disappears, prior proceedings are usually instituted, and it is within these criminal proceedings where the judge on duty authorizes, if he or she understands it appropriate, the measures that are necessary for the search for missing persons, and assessing all circumstances objectively, or, where appropriate, through procedures of voluntary jurisdiction for the same purpose. Although he has withdrawn from the original motion, we do not resist to mention also the whole question of the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia under the Catalan Law 16/2020, which we understand – which has also been done by other autonomous parliaments – that gives a parable to one of the biggest scams that has occurred in Spain, which is the alleged plot of stolen babies, a plot fed by the left and its media terminal, and which originates in a car of former Judge Garzón of 2008, who constructs this account from the hand of a historian with a very determined ideological bias. I am not going to go into this issue, because it has withdrawn from the motion, but I do want to remember that, in ten years of research, from 2012 to 2022, it has not been possible to prove the existence of this plot of stolen babies. The current director of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences, Dr. Antonio Alonso, or the coroner Rafael Bañón, have found no evidence of any plot of theft of babies, and have repeated this on several occasions. Neither have they found any evidence of this plot, nor has the Navarro Parliament, which set up a specific commission of inquiry for this purpose, nor the Attorney General's Office, which in its 2013 report acknowledges that there has been no organized plot. As of today, no case of child theft has been proved in Spain. The only existing sentence is from the Madrid Provincial Court of 2018, but within a few months the alleged victim, Inés Madrigal, admitted, confessed that no one had stolen it, but that her biological mother had given it up for adoption. Therefore, there was no plot of stolen babies. There may have been cases – and we strongly condemn them – of kidnappings between private individuals, in specific cases, which must be investigated criminally as a kidnapping offence. And what did happen, and it is clear from all the parliamentary and judicial investigations, were numerous cases of irregular adoptions, adoptions even with payments, facilitated by a very unwarranted legislation that then even allowed for adoption in private documents. In any case, whether it is a case of abduction of a baby, or irregular adoptions, we absolutely condemn all these assumptions and understand that we must help their families, the families who want to, to be able to find each other again. But, of course, we are not going to support sectarian laws that in their explanatory statement speak of the use of Nazi methods by clergy, nuns, military, psychiatrists in general. In short, "yes to all measures to support and clarify the disappearance of persons without apparent cause. And, of course, we will not support ideological laws that have nothing to do with the subject of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.46.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature, has the word Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.47.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... And begin by greeting associations and relatives of missing persons and sending them a hug for the difficulty of the situation. That said, as early as 2015, in a report that says, "Time is fast, from the United Nations Organization, a group of experts related to disappearances was already talking and asking the state to implement global standards for the immediate search for missing persons. In this sense, and I see that the motion intends to implement this whole series of global measures, we will support the total practice of this, and therefore we will support it. However, as has already been mentioned in previous interventions, there are some points that create some doubts for us, because they address questions related to the rights and effective judicial protection, which are the 18th and the 19th, and in which we cannot vote in favour. Remember that communications can only be intervened if there is a prior judicial authorization for the affectation of human rights. Remember, too, that Article 588 of the Lecrim already exempts this court order from exercising its functions, and therefore, for example, in the request for location or intervention of mobile phones. And, therefore, we think that there are some tools and that these tools must go through effective judicial protection and there can be no other mechanisms. Another question is that in this area these mechanisms can be agile, but always respecting these clauses that seem to us to be absolutely effective for the rights of the people. In any case, say that we will ultimately support this motion for implementing all of these recommendations and all of these measures and expansions of resources that we think are necessary and that have already been transferred by the United Nations Organization, but at these two points we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.48.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word, now, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.49.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, therefore, give the welcome to the entities that are accompanying us today; also to Mr. Bruguera, who we were able to share the past legislature and we are aware of how this issue worked. Also thank the Parliamentary Group of the PSC for the presentation of this motion following the inquiry that has taken place a few weeks ago. This is a particularly delicate issue. It is an issue, of course, to which our parliamentary group gives all the support. And we want to offer from here our recollection to the families affected by this drama, which is that of disappeared people without apparent cause. It is true that the initial motion, as, in fact, the proposed Member explained to us, addressed two questions, right? Disappeared persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors. The final text focuses on the first assumptions, because it is true, as well as the entities working on forced disappearance of minors, so that there is legislation..., which, of course, is urgent to develop via..., regularly the law of the year 2020 and which is effective in all its spheres. In any case, the motion ended by focusing on the disappearance of people without apparent cause. As I said, our group will support it, because basically we understand that what they want to do is create a legislative framework that gives us an answer. I, above all, provide resources and mechanisms, especially the Cosos dels Mossos d'Esquadra, but not only, to address this issue. This has to do with elements such as the need, for example, for individualized transactions. You also have to see questions about the need for coordination between the different departments. But it also has to do with a question that is the priority of resources, right? And in the end, therefore, before the volume of cases that exist in Catalonia, before the lack of solved cases, here we need to make more efforts, more resources, and it is clear that they will surely be taken from somewhere else. And we believe that this is one of the areas where resources should be prioritized in the Interior Department. And, therefore, we agree with what you're putting on this young man. We also agree on issues affecting, for example, the area of justice, such as the proposed reform of the Civil Code, for all that has to do with the property management of disappeared persons. Also in the reinforcement, as I said, that is plantation of the central unit. The strategic plan that we are also offered to raise, and it is true that in the House they do not just address what this new focus is, right? That we should have this strategic plan; therefore, here we should see where this strategic plan should go and, as I said, all the coordination measures. And lastly, even if we collect the vast majority of the points of this young man, it is true that there are three or four of us who are in doubt and who are abstaining, from the point of view that we understand that, with the current wording of the young man's motion, effective judicial protection is not guaranteed and that we may ultimately be violating the right of people who may not want to be found, right? And, from the point of view of individual rights, some of the points that the Squadron Mosses claim to have access to certain information, both from the point of view of health and from other administrations or, above all, everything they have to see with collaborations with mobile phone operators to be able to identify people..., it seems to us that this is extremely dangerous, if it is not produced in an effective judicial framework. And, therefore, as points 11, 13 and 19 of the motion are written, our group cannot support it. In any case, we'll abstain. And, as I said, at the rest of the time, we'll give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.50.0	Well, finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, Mr. Oscar Aparicio returns to hold the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.51.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, thank the predisposition that the department has had throughout the inquiry and also during the motion and negotiations. Since it cannot be otherwise, give thanks to the group and to the deputies Sans i Abella, who we have had this collaboration, which seems that someone does not like it, who is collaborating. We understand, from the point of view of the Socialist Party, that we come here to improve people's lives, and I think there can be no doubt that with this motion and with the measures that have been granted and negotiated and accepted and that they will probably be approved, for which we have heard from the positions of the groups... I don't think there is any doubt that this is improving the lives of these people at a very difficult time, and, as it felt here, perhaps it would be good for everyone to speak to these entities and to these family members. With respect to the four doubts that have been created, let me..., I will deal with them quickly, but it is true that there is a series of measures that some groups believe may be violators of the fundamental rights. Obviously, it's not intent, not much less. Surely in a much better written motion, in the broadest sense, we could have gone into more detail, but it is not the intention, obviously, of violating any right. Second, there's the right to disappearance. Precisely because of this one of the first investigations that make jutjas and cops is to wonder whether it is a voluntary disappearance or not, with which thing they are willing..., they inform the family like that and are closed. And, therefore, we understand that everything is..., depending on the prism with which it is aimed. And to the Lords of the City I wanted to tell you that there is no intention to impose. We have all the respect for the different powers that the... National Police... go, in fact, the bodies and security forces of the State. But, of course, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, and therefore, to whom we must address is the Department of the Interior and the Mossos d'Esquadra, and not the rest. But if the motion has been read – and I hope so – you will see that it speaks of coordinating between the different bones and the different administrations. Also tell them [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish, President – to the lords of Ciutadans that we come here to make politics, politics understood as agreements, not to make partisanship, as fan you, that come to direct confrontation. And we won't be found here, because we're not... we're opposed, we want to be government, but what we're not is destructive. And it seems to me that you – and with all respect – and your group come here to destroy, not to build.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.52.0	Thank you very much. So, over with the debate, I'm also guessing that the vote on this point will have a substantial time, this middle, the twenty point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public procurement]] [[302-00162/13]] Let's move on to the new, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into public procurement, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.53.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... With this motion we continue the inquiry of the late Ple about the need to encourage the processing of a Catalan contract law. And the main objective, both of the inquiry and of this motion, is, basically and substantively, to put this table on the table and to contribute to the priority in the legislative agenda of this matter. For this reason, the motion is deliberately extended and at the same time relatively short. And for this reason we also wanted to accept the totality of the papers presented, both for the groups that collect the Government – Republican Left and Together for Catalonia – as part of the Common Group We can. One young man, we believe, is not and cannot intend to replace the complex legislative process – and, moreover, if I may, in a dense and very technical issue like this, still less –... but, as I said, a starting point with the aim of prioritizing public procurement in Catalonia. The motion initially had one point and seven apart, to which three separates or letters and one_second point have been added, which we consider sufficient to raise those basic questions or criteria that we consider necessary in this law. And in this case, I will refer to the definite text, with the incorporation of the elements, which, in our view, have improved the text. Introduce, first of all, a project in divided_months; that the law rules in a unified way the public contract of the Catalan public sector; that it facilitates the access of the peppers and entities of the social economy and solidary to the public contract; the simplification of administrative procedures; that it develops the standard framework of the model of public-private and public-community collaboration, as provided by Comú podem; that it rules the working, social and environmental clauses, as well as those that refer to social responsibility; that it fosters innovation in the public contract; that it establishes the bases and general principles of the related forms of performance and incidence in the public contract; that is, that it clarifies the non-contractual relationship. Three alternatives, as I said, contributed to the issues of In Comú Pueblo, which make reference – and in line with labour reform – to the fact that it is determined that in public contracting processes it will ensure, on the part of the companies participating in it, the application of the sectoral agreement. That it is rules the exclusion of businesses that have incomplete European and Spanish morosity laws. And to the advantage that the public contract contributes to the promotion of the values propitious to the social and solidary economy. And, thus, a new point, provided for the groups supporting the Government, in relation to the need to modify the basic legislation of the State to clarify and simplify the public procurement processes, which is in line with the annual standard plan of 2022 of the State, consists of two normative forecasts in contract matters for which it makes the law and regulation on public procurement with this objective. We celebrate, too, that all just yesterday the Government approved..., or before yesterday, better said – Tuesday –, the preliminary memory of the preliminary draft of the law of public contract of Catalonia, which, in this way, has begun the procedures provided for the normative plan of the Generality. To finish my intervention, allow me only to make a brief reminder of some questions which I have also mentioned in the previous inquiry, which refer to the fact that the public contract is and represents the order of the eleven and a half percent of the gross domestic product; that what or how the development of the public contract is, in this sense, the scope of the ability to influence the economic model of Catalonia, and is, therefore, an exceptional opportunity for the transformation of the economy; that the large number of providers of the Administration has certain characteristics or the ability to influence the economic model of Catalonia, and is, therefore, an exceptional opportunity for the transformation of the economy; that the large number of providers of the Administration has been determined or simplified in the media, social or labour field; or that it is easy or not to access the pimes, cooperatives, entities that are not in the sense of the practice; or that the practice of the practice of the administration is in practice. So let's take this opportunity, through the legislative process of the law of public contract in Catalonia, to make all these things come true that we hope will give rise to today a broad consensus in this chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.54.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mr Joan Carles Gallego, in the defence of the papers presented, has the first word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.55.0	Well, good morning. From the outset, thank the motion presented. Speaking of public contract, we understand that today is a necessity, an imperative necessity. The company is in a process of social transformation, of economic transformation, and it has to focus on the role of public administration as a motor of activity. And do so so as to promote and encourage changes that allow for a transition management that is fair to people and around them. We believe that public administration, the public sector, is an active economic agent, and that, through the purchase of goods and services, it can condition the functioning of the market and introduce dynamics based on social and environmental justice. We know that the market, without rules or controls, becomes unjust and socially inefficient, but we also know that many times the rules for the sun do not change reality, if there is no incentive and motivation for change. And it's in this brand where the contractual action of the Administration can play an important role. That is why we value very positively the motion that the Socialist Group has put forward. We believe it places the debate on the role of public contract, the role of public administration, as this engine of economic activity, but also of economic and social transformation, right? In this sense, we have also submitted reports, and we are grateful that they have been collected. We want – and that is the meaning of our considerations – to encourage a fair and inclusive set of labour relations in public contracts, as well as to promote the value of collective bargaining, and therefore respect for sectoral agreements of reference, as labour reform already stands, but it is worth mentioning in public contracts. We also want to see plural and diverse, more open, business models promoted in public contracts, which do not focus exclusively on the pursuit of certain undertakings, but also on the Community service, the social and solidary economy, which is ultimately contemplating various forms of democratic activity, cooperatives or entities in the third sector. It is important a public contract framework that facilitates the presence in the economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also of entities, we understand, of the social and solidary economy, because public contract can be, it has to be an element of dynamism of a stronger product and business fabric and with more social values. That's why it's important – and I think it's clear that the reason – is for administrative simplification, improving processes, but also improving the transparency and effectiveness of public procurement processes, ensuring in any case, obviously, the controls and follow-up necessary to vet for the proper use of public funds and to avoid any practical corruption, mass installed on certain practices in some areas of public administration, which sometimes confound public procurement with favouritism or friendliness. In short, we will vote in favour of the motion, of all points, because we believe that it places the issue – we have already said this – in the political debate, but above all this compromise that, from the active paper, the driving force of public administration, we can enhance a different economy, a more troubled economy around it, an economy more conducive to social needs, an economy that does not only revolve around the pursuit of jobs, but also about the promotion of certain enterprises, different from the social and solid economy, which they claim, from the Community's space, to satisfy the social needs more than to develop and profit privately, right? Therefore, we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and also because they have collected our papers. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.56.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Marta Madrenas has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.57.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolgut advisor, companies and companies... This young man may not be the most passionate of the world, but, effectively, he has aspects that are substantial for the proper functioning of our administration, also of the economy, and to make clear which are our social, environmental, etcetera values, as Gallego's company has just expressed, for example. The entire sheet music, in fact, is a Spanish law, the law of public contracts, in which directives of the European Parliament and the Council were transposed. And the objectives that they pursue then remain absolutely valid still, shared for all of us – I am not absolutely convinced – and also for the conjunction of citizenship and European citizenship, such as avoiding corruption, ensuring transparency, more efficiency, more social responsibility, environmental; prioritization of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. Here in Catalonia, without waiting for this Spanish transposition, already in September 2014– it is said, a few months after the directives – they began to adopt certain normative measures that were also trying to pursue these objectives, based on their own directives, on issues of transparency, access to public information, good governance, free competition, prevention of fraud in public procurement..., many. And, certainly, we must recognize, and we must say, that there have been many real, practical, tangible adventures. I have data that aren't very up-to-date, but... For example, by 2020, public imports for the promotion of the contracting of persons with disabilities had tripled, for example, or difficult to insert. It is also very important to increase the incorporation of social clauses – more than eighty-eight per cent of the public contract already contemplates them – or to increase the number of peppers that are bidders – in an eighty-eight per cent. Yes, the import is smaller, of a sixty_per_cent, but if we did the exercise of asking all the assemblies of Catalonia what are the main difficulties they have at the time of managing the public services that we give to the citizenry, surely the first would be the lack of financing – we always repeat it – but the second serious difficulties in the contract. It is terrible the extreme difficulty of contracting for public administrations, creating obvious frustrations in public officials, in public workers, obviously in the peppers at the time of bidding, because they do not understand the half of the standards that affect them... And that, obviously, involves a clear, plausible damage to the city, which you see as, to build a two-hundred-metre wish in any city of Catalonia, you can be more than two years old. It doesn't feel like it, and that's what we have to work against. And so, obviously, we agree that we can work with a new contract law, whenever it is also a priority for these accesses..., this hyper-bureaucratization that we are living. In fact, it happens too often that the ability of legislators to manage complexity, because this was a complex issue, goes more and more bureaucracy to turn it into infinity. And that can't be and that's what we have to fight, because it's absolutely intolerable. This standard labyrinth needs to be changed. So, as long as the government has been working on it, with what was approved before yesterday, which was referred to by the deputy, to whom I also appreciate the acceptance of all the issues... Saying that, together, we will support this motion except in a couple of points where we will abstain, which are some input from En Comú We may not have just seen the interpretation clear, like doing it, but we will vote on it..., because in general terms we agree that a new Catalan law on public contracts is needed and that it is to be treated as a coding law, as it is France, regrouping and systematizing all our standard texts. Together we will also age, first and foremost, as I said now, to explore all possible instruments to reduce bureaucracy. We believe in the idea that some very expert people are beginning to point out "two for one," that is, that for every new journey you want to introduce yourself to two, and therefore we will look to work on this line. I think we can all agree. And, in addition, we understand that contracting procedures require a change of layout linked to digital processing. What we did was digitized, but it was: the same thing we did on paper, we did with technological means. That's not it. We need to transform the process to make it effectively digital, with digital look and digital design. But, above all, together we would be especially fond of developing all those measures. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that prioritises access to our pimes, autonomous people and social economy entities. Together – I finish, Madam President – we want to place Catalonia among the best states in Europe, because we have the talent, the actions, the people and the ideas. Let us therefore confine ourselves to the standards we need to make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.58.0	And, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Mr Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.59.0	Thank you, President. Marta's tall, and there was the pharystoll head up, huh? I'm more of a chaparrin. Well, counselor, thank you for being here. Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament... The question of public contract is..., I do believe that it is an exciting issue, because it can solve many of the problems that arise when we meet, for example, with business committees working for companies that are contracted for the Administration and that, in change, they see their labour rights being violated. I think it's also exciting because it impacts directly on the city, it impacts directly on the quality of the service that the Public Administration offers to the city. And I think it's very uplifting, because it's also about a debate that for us it's an exciting debate, even though it's a debate that raises many edges, that raises certain points of confrontation and divergence, that's public management directly or public management indirectly. And I think we need to talk about this question too today. According to our point of view, the Public Administration has the obligation to offer directly, directly, all its services, but we also know that the Public Administration has the measure it has, whatever level it is, does not have the financial lives sufficient to be able to face a direct management of all its services, and does not have a proper standard for being able to deal with the contract. Therefore, from here, one of the requirements that in the future law of public contract in Catalonia – which this very week approved its preliminary memory, in the preliminary draft –..., I believe that one of the important elements will be to make it clear that the Administration has to justify why this service cannot provide it directly and why this service must provide it through public contract. I think that this is an important element, because when we go deeper into public procurement and deeper into a contracting system that has as its main function social responsibility, that has as its main function democracy in companies, that has as its main function the control of the execution of this contract, when we draw up technical and administrative clauses for a tender, all these mechanisms must be very much taken into account. And, therefore, they must be incorporated so that those companies that do not have a good business practice, that do not have a good job practice..., that these companies cannot access public administration contracts, cannot access tenders. And these mechanisms think it's very important that we activate them. At the same time, to activate these mechanisms must be accompanied by a control over the execution of these contracts. The control over the execution of contracts is determinant – it is determinant – and here I think we have a lot of room for improvement. And, therefore, incorporate elements within the administration itself, specific elements, such as those responsible for the contract of administration, but responsible for the contract that is over the execution of this contract, that ensure that the company that won that public contest continues to maintain the same conditions that allowed it to participate in the tender and that allowed it to win that contest; that it is that conditions are maintained; that they are vigilant in the quality of the service; that they are vigilant at all times that the departure that was approved in a plethora of an assembly or that was approved in a governing committee..., that departure has an effective and executive translation that directly affects, positively, the citizens and citizens who are part of that society. Therefore, this execution of the contract, this control over the execution of the contract, is decisive. And that means we have to have sanctioning mechanisms, too. When a company does not complete a contract with the Administration, that company must be penalized, and that must be the case. She has to be penalized, she can't be part of a public contest again. This company should not be able to continue to perform the service, performing that service. And the administration itself must have the legal capacity to take out that company of an evil service in order to re-bid that contract and recover the standards of quality required for our citizenship. Therefore, all these mechanisms will be incorporated into this area of public procurement. And that means that we also have another important element, which is also modulating the business fabric of our country. We defend those companies with social responsibility. We defend those businesses that have workers as referents, that make their workers also participate in decision-making presses, that have their workers as their main activity. These are the companies that left Republican defense. They are the companies that we also want to be in the public administration of our country. And this is an excellent tool to be able to realize that these new business models end up imposing themselves on these great business models that are pre-charitable and exploitative. We will vote in favour of the whole House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.60.0	So, after defending the papers presented, you..., then, in the first place, to fix your position, Mr Andrés Bello, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.61.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is presenting to us today a motion urging the Government of the Generalitat to submit a draft law on public procurement in the Catalan public sector. Good. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe that they are wrong to put the and also on the proposed path, as we are going to develop. We have heard four speakers. We think some of the things they said... well, we agree, but we're going to focus on the problem, because I think it's out of focus, huh? Let's see... the current regulations. As we know, and it has also been mentioned, the current rules on public procurement are set out in Law 9/2017 of 8 November on public sector contracts, which, as has also been said, transpose two Community directives of 2014. Okay. This is a very extensive law. See: it has 347 articles, 55 additional provisions, 5 transitional provisions, 1 derogating provision and 16 final provisions. In total, all of this, all of this law, occupied 268 pages in the official state newsletter – 268 pages. As has been said: two European directives, a very dense law. Is there anything left for us to regulate with a rank of law? It is possible that yes – it is possible that yes – but it will certainly be little and not very important. It is true that Article 159 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia contains certain powers in this field, although it must comply with the provisions of Article 149.1, paragraph 18, of the Spanish Constitution, since the State - to be recalled - has exclusive competence in its basic legislation. Let us remember: the State has exclusive competence in its basic legislation. But we also believe that Catalonia and its public sector can continue to function perfectly without a new law being drafted, as proposed. In fact, it has been so until today and there has been no problem. We also believe that the drafting of a Catalan public procurement law, like that of any other region of Spain, would have a negative impact on the national market unity. It would mean creating new barriers in the internal market. It would have a negative effect on the exchange of goods and services between Spanish companies and public administrations, because to the difficulty – as has actually been said – of preparing the documentation for the submission of tenders in public tenders, it would be necessary to add the new obstacle that would mean having to know the rules of another region other than the one in which the company is located. This difficulty will be especially burdensome for SMEs, to which – it has been said – this claimed new law wants to benefit, eh? SMEs cannot have departments with expertise in public procurement legislation. We believe that this is an unnecessary, unnecessary and pernicious complication, both for companies and for the public administrations themselves, because they will see how the number of offers received decreases, thus achieving worse economic conditions and producing a less efficient use of public resources. Our proposal goes so far as not to issue a law on public procurement in the exclusively Catalan field which, moreover – and as has been said – would necessarily have a very limited scope. We believe – it has also been said – that we must bet decisively on regulatory simplicity, clarifying and reducing the rules in force, especially those at the regional level which are often unnecessary and duplicated with that of the State. We believe that these actions would involve clear support for our companies, which could work with greater legal certainty and lower administrative costs. And if you have to regulate any aspect of public procurement – I think you do – we believe you have to do the State, either by amending Law 9/2017, if you have to have a law rank, or by taking advantage of the pending regulatory development of that law to regulate those aspects that do not need to be regulated by law rank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.62.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the next word is Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.63.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, I wanted to start by thanking Deputy Albert who opened the melo, because everyone here was going through the debate that we think we need to have when we talk about public contracts. We're talking about public contract for goods and services, and so we need to talk about which services we want and how we want them. And this is the debate, which has already provoked, in the background, a few years ago, that in this Parliament we did not approve a law of public contract, because it did not address the debate of how we imagine public services in this country and how we want to govern them, as we want to manage them; on the basis of five criteria we want to manage them, but above all, as we believe it is better to guarantee quality, the labour rights and the whole series of conditions that are then laid down in the social clauses. That I would say that we could all agree to work for what they were supposed to work for, because, if not, let's explain how it can be that it's systematically social in order to prevent Florentino Pérez from staying and staying. So, this... I mean, put it all back to "make a law of public contract, we'll put some social clauses in it to avoid a series of things, we don't think it's the mark. In the same way that we consider that the mark on the debate of the management of goods and services should not start from the debate on the public contract, but... Let's start talking, as Deputy Albert said, of public management, or direct or indirect, but let's start talking about concertation. Let's go for the concertation, then we discuss the convention, then the delegated management and then, if there is no more remodeling, the public contract. We understand that this guarantees a lot more of the things that they say they want to guarantee when we put social clauses in it or when we talk about labor rights or respect for the environment. And this is the element of debate. That's why we, despite the fact that we agree that at some point we need a law of public contract and that we need to improve the tools that exist now... we need to start the other way around. We've got to start talking about concertation, first, and then they're going to say the things. When we start to legislate around the contract, what we do is condition the rest. So it's the public concert that we've conditioned the rest of it, because we understand that's much better. And, in fact, we're glad that Tuesday the preliminary draft memo was approved and we started the debate on public procurement, but some of the elements that last week or two weeks ago in the inquiry came up to scare us a little, or we heard that we went back to the same debate as usual. "The main criterion will have to be and will be the performance of the service or the provision of the good with excellent quality levels and with prices that are fair and adjusted, and insist on ‘adjusted'. And now, Deputy Albert has said that sometimes financial lives are not enough for direct management. So the question is, what does that mean, exactly? Why is it indirect that there are enough funding lives? What do you think we're talking about? These debates are the ones we need to have, before we talk about public contracts. That's why we don't support this young man most of the time. In a few points we will abstain, because it is certain that we are talking about criteria around the social and solidary economy; of course it seems good to us, but in a _marc that is not what establishes the public contract. And, therefore, in this, in a few points we will abstain. In the same way that when we talk about labor rights, because we start from whether we already donate or what is derived... It is to say, that companies take the minimum wage or pay a wage just to the workers, but when we outsource a service ever the wages of these workers will be the same as that of a public worker, and therefore we already start on unequal conditions, even though it is always good to say that companies guarantee labor rights, it would only be missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.64.0	And finally, in order to defend his position, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.65.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... I believe that, as some of the companies who have preceded me in the use of the word, before talking about the content of the young man will have to lay down some important premises in our public debate. First of all, I believe that Catalonia has a profound problem with what it does to public procurement. I believe that over the past few weeks and months, and years ago, we are experiencing cases that really show that public procurement is a black hole in our public administration. We have seen it in cases involving members of the Government of the Generality, we have seen it in cases directly affecting the presidency of this Parliament. Cases which, if not more, indicate indicatively and in a very strong way, if not, in agreement with the successive interlocutors of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which, indeed, the way in which the issue of public contract has been addressed to our community is as small as Matusera, to say the least, more gruesome words. Therefore, effectively, I believe that public procurement is a problem of our Administration which, effectively, needs to be addressed in another way. But I think that this is not an orderly issue, it is not a question that you have to reside in a strictly legalistic debate, but all the contrary: I think it is a question of decency, dignity, and in almost ethical and moral terms, to use the terms that are often used in this debate. From our point of view, the motion of the Socialist Party is unnecessary. It is unnecessary, among other things, because the law of contracting in the public sector is a very broad law, very profuse in its articulation, and, moreover, very detailed in many aspects. And, in this sense, we consider that with this legislation, therefore, the public contract in Catalonia should operate in a much more transparent and more respectful way with the services, with the benefits and services that the Administration provides to the citizens. The cases that we have seen lately that cause us to fear our group are, precisely, that what is wanted from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is to legalize the practices that until now, both the Socialist Party and the nationalist parties that have governed the vast majority of the institutions of our community – the Generality, the deputies, the assemblies –..., what they want is to legalize some practices if more not questionable and in many corrupt cases for what they do to the public contract. And that, from our point of view, is, obviously a fraud of law, trying to violate the fundamental principles of public administration through, precisely, the promulgation of a law that I should pretend is all the contrary. In this sense, I think it is important to remember something that has already been mentioned, which is that this law, which may end up implying this proposal for autonomous law..., which may end up implying a new entry barrier for, let's say, the economic growth of our community, in this case, for public procurement. And we consider that the least needed by our country, Spain, and our community, Catalonia, are the most entry barriers. When international investors come to Catalonia to make their investments, to contribute knowledge, to contribute economic development..., to contribute, in short, growth to our economy, they do, precisely, based on objective criteria, such as now the good quality of our infrastructures, the good quality of our gastronomy, elements that they want to see many times with public activity. But one of the elements that each of the entrepreneurs who invest their money in Catalonia and say, whenever you speak to it, as an element to improve, as an element that harms the economic activity of our community – certainly, to other autonomous communities, and, of course, to other European regions – is, precisely, the administrative teranyina that prevents speeding up formalities that in other autonomous communities are easier and that in other European regions are much easier. Therefore, we do not consider this proposal to be necessary. We will vote that not many of the points of this proposal, and we will vote that yes to all those who are, precisely, in line with improving innovation, transparency, in terms of public contracts. That's all. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.66.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.67.0	Thank you very much, President. Beyond the passage that can raise the issue, that this is already a more individual issue, what is clear is that it is an important issue, at the same time the interventions that have been made. And it is for the Parliament, I insist, with the positions that there have been of the different spokespersons, and it is – and we celebrate – also for the Government, in the measure that, as we say, this Tuesday approved the memory of the legislative text. And, therefore, we also celebrate this priority, as we said, which, in short, is what we claimed. All that we can legislate – and so it is collected in the State, in Article 159.3 – we firmly believe that we have to take advantage of it, and that in this chamber we have to exhaust all the legislative recourse we have to take advantage of these mechanisms to, as others say, transform our country's economy into the sense that we think is appropriate. Non-regulation is not a neutral position, it's a political position. And not regular, as he was defending the VOX carrier or now the Ciutadan carrier, it's an ideological political position, it's not a neutral position. Non-regulation is a position aligned with neoliberal postulates. We don't share them; we respect them, but we don't share them. Now, what we can't accept is that favoring the lots to promote the access of the peppers follow, as he said..., or the clausules in medium-environmental or social or labor matter, continue to legalize obscure practices. Tell the business sector representative entities, that you think that's what this is. Regarding the intervention of the spokesman of the CUP, tell him that, precisely, in the inquiry and in the motion it makes reference to the contractual theme conventional in the required slang. When it comes to general principles of related forms of action, and it refers to contractual and non-contractual formulas, it is precisely a reference to this, insofar as we consider it absolutely priority to enter this camp as well, in this context, and to define these questions perfectly. Appreciate the exams. To thank the gathering that the young woman has aroused in the chamber. And, for my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.68.0	Okay. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal balances and investment deficit]] [[302-00166/13]] So, after the debate, I would like to ask you if we can proceed to the vote on this motion and all the previous ones when we finish the next item on the agenda, the 20th item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government on fiscal balances and the investment deficit, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for Catalonia. And he has the word, to expose it, Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.69.0	Well, thank you, President. It is supposed that all the Members of this Parliament are here to defend the interests of Catalans. To accept that the execution of the State in infrastructure follows the thirty-sis_per_cent– is to say, one_of_each_three euros– is not to defend Catalans, it is to laugh, especially when, in Madrid, of every three_euros are executed five. The reality is this: Catalonia, one; Madrid, five. The first one we do in this case is to require the State to liquidate the 1,328_millions not executed during 2021. This Parliament cannot complete the State's premise, but what it can do, and we do in this motion, is to ask parliamentary groups that do not vote for more State assumptions until these 1,328_millions are liquid or those that can come, because there is not enough. Gentlemen of the PSC and the commons, will you vote against this? Against the Catalans seeing their welfare improved? Do they bet for the five o'clock? The second issue that..., what we can't do is wait a year and a half to know that Sanchez is the most incomplicating president of the past decades. That's why we propose that you do a continuous follow-up, on time, as is done years ago to the trading chambers, so that we can act ahead and demand reaction and compensation as soon as possible. And, speaking of trade camres, 2019 was a study that talked about priority infrastructure in Catalonia; it was worth about 15,000_million euros at the time. On the basis of this, what we ask, or demand, is that you make an execution schedule for these priority infrastructure in four years. What will PSC and common vote? Will investments in the capital of your kingdom be given more priority? Because, gentlemen of the PSC and ordinary, that investing in the Pyrenees is done or is not done the Games; the Mediterranean Corridor must be done – the real one, not the ‘Madriterrani' –; that the Prat must be converted into an intercontinental hub – excuses on this subject, please –; that the AVE must also arrive at the airports of Girona and Reus; that it must pass the reels. Of course, we're going to ask one more time. Why don't they? Does it leave them as evidence Renfe, when they know that Railways of the Generality is the railway undertaking or one of the railway undertakings with the best indicators of the world? That's what Imperial College London says, let's not say it. Also end the railway and road connections of the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona, which, while being of the most profitable of the State, are of the least investments they have of this class; this, yes, you continue to invest in València – perhaps they are prepared for the day that we follow an independent state... And I also have to make many investments in reelings, such as the unfolding of the national 340 to the Ebre, the national II to Girona, the A-27 to Valls, the 240 between Montblanc and Lleida, the famous already round of the Vallès between Abrera and Sabadell, among many others. Mirin, gentlemen of the PSC, if we have any, investments to take over the territory. But since you don't have to win for these communities, you've ignored them for decades, because, ultimately, it's such a good idea to drink Spanish as to drink Catalonia. His dream is to centralize it all to the metropolitan area, and that's why his minister goes to Sabadell to do a clearly partisan act. But we're not just talking about infrastructure in this young man; we've also introduced tax balances, because, oh surprise! , the government of the PSOE and Podemos does not give the information to calculate the fiscal balances from five years ago, obviating that the Law 10/2012 obliges us to publish them. Gentlemen of the PSC and common, do you want an uninformed society? Is this his model on a theme as sacred as knowing what he's doing, the taxes we pay? Why, you know, if Catalans know the truth, right? Hey, what's this? Is it the memory of ''Spanisha in the steals?'' No, she's been spying on us, and she's been doing it three times – I've already explained it to her in my interrogation. Mirin, at last week's Historical Debt Commission, the Deputy Director General of Finance of the Generalitat showed us the fiscal balances from 1986 to 2016. And do you know what they represent, cumulatively? More than 300,000_millions, if we take over the cash-benefit method; more than 400,000_millions, if we take over the cash flow method. And this represents between forty and fifty thousand euros per català, that is, about 200,000 euros per family, in just thirty-five years. That's what we're doing. And you are the useful deputies to continue with the spoiled Catalonia. But the novelty we're introducing in this case is that we're going to ask the government to prepare an alternate assumption without a fiscal deficit. Imagine: investment in research and development like Nordic countries – three, four_per_cent of GDP –; spending on education of the sis_per_cent, like the world's most advanced countries; increasing pensions by one deu_per_cent; lowering taxes to the level of Madrid; increasing health care by fifteen_per_cent. All this can be done, without fiscal deficit. Therefore, we will explain it, and we will explain it as much as we can, because people have to decide whether they want to continue to be robbed for decades or enjoy the taxes that we pay as a result of our work, as is the case in the rest of Europe. And that means independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.70.0	Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has in the first place the word the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.71.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Canadell. The truth is that I know that it does not give you any shame to return here to make the speech of « Spain robs us, the « Spain expoliates us, a speech, I insist, which is an extreme right-wing speech, a racist, xenophobic speech, proper to the North League, of the great Padania, proper to radical extremist movements and deeply insolidary ones that exist in the rest of Europe. And you here in Catalonia have normalized it, you've been normalizing it for a few years, and then, besides, you're giving lessons to others about what the extreme right is. You represent the discourse of the worst extreme right – insolidary, ravine, caspian and reactionary – of Spain and Europe. This is what your speech from "Spain steals from us, which you also have the advisability of coming here to claim with absolute naturality, as if it were the most reasonable thing in the world. Well, it is clear that a state that wants to be equitable, that wants to be fair, that wants to ensure equality among its citizens, must redistribute wealth. I remind you of a principle that you must know, Mr Canadell, which is that taxes are paid by citizens, not territories. The taxes are paid by all Catalans, the citizens of Catalonia, and those of the rest of Spain. Catalonia does not pay them as an abstract entity that personifies itself and pays its taxes to the Ministry of Finance, no. The question is this, Mr Canadell: is that you defend an insolidary speech with the rest of the Spaniards. He defends it with thick words, in my opinion, I insist, certainly immoral, but perhaps you would not see it with such good eyes that the same speech that you defend was defended by a Barcelonaer in relation to a Gerundian, in relation to a Tarragonese or in relation to an Ilerdense. The supposed fiscal expoliation that I will never speak of because I have a moral conception and a reason of state in the matter of equity, in the matter of equality between citizens, the discourse that you defend could be perfectly extrapolable to the relations between Barcelona and the rest of the Catalan provinces or between the districts of Barcelona. Would it seem normal for you that a citizen of the district of Sarrià - Sant Gervasi would say that he does not want to continue paying for the social services of the citizens of Nou Barris? Well, that's what you do, that's the extreme right speech, exactly. [[Some applause.]] So, you can keep trying to say that that's normal, and the worst of all is that, unfortunately, in the public debate in Catalonia for many years that has been allowed to you. For some strange reason some have preferred not to call them by their name, not to tell them what they are and what they represent in the European context, but it seems to me that it is essential to tell them and to call things by their name. Any democratic rule of law that ensures equal rights among its citizens must necessarily redistribute wealth among its citizens. It is a basic democratic principle that you do not seem to understand. In addition, let me tell you that you have put into circulation a new mantra, a new lie about the state's investment in Catalonia. And I will tell you this: we, as a party, of course, will always demand the public administrations to execute that budgeted thing, to execute that thing with which they have committed themselves. It is true that neither the central government – the General Administration of the State – nor the Generalitat itself have been particularly successful in this area in the past year. But let me tell you one thing: Catalonia is the autonomous community that from 2015 until 2021 has received more investment than budgeted, that is, executed by the central government, the state, the evil Spanish state, above autonomous communities such as Castile and León and the Community of Madrid. That ought to know, too. I say this because when you are campaigning and irradiating it with all your propagandistic capacity in the public and subsidized media of the Generalitat, you obviously have the part that interests you, and you do not know that your will to poison Catalan society has logically very short legs. And, in this sense, you can continue to waste time with that solvent discourse, with that harmful discourse, with that profoundly immoral discourse of confronting the citizens of Catalonia with those of the rest of Spain. Fortunately, many Catalans remain linked, linked to the fate of the rest of the Spaniards. And to me, when you come to me with that of « I want to have the key to the box..., you will explain to me who you represent, who you are to say that, because many Catalans, when we talk about « our box, we talk about the box of the whole of the Spaniards. We are concerned about the social services that may be available in Madrid, Santiago, Seville, in any other city in our country. We are equally concerned, just as we are concerned about what happens in Tarragona, in Lleida, in Girona. It is the concept of interterritorial solidarity that we defend. And, by the way, you, who are precisely trying to say that you are very European, will explain to me how you are going to be in solidarity with other countries of the European Union. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] if they are unable even to be in solidarity with our compatriots from the rest of Spain. Finally, that is the speech that you defend – Madam President, I finish – and it is a speech, I insist, that we must call it by your name, the speech of the worst European right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.72.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.73.0	Well, I'd lie if I said you'd let me down, Mr. Canadell. Together and Mr. Canadell never see me. We were pleased that, after the question of the other day, we found a set of proposals for action mandated by the Government of the Government of Catalonia to overcome the situation that was described in the question. Unfortunately, the motion does not urge any measure that the Government of Catalonia can take to improve fiscal balances or correct the investment deficit. You set up in the complaint and complaint, but there is no concrete proposal to rectify the situation. The motion that you are presenting seems that what you want is to keep a face-to-face confrontation and not plausibly pose a measure that allows you to overcome a reality of poor functioning, of bad fit, of poor institutionalization of relations between Catalonia and Spain. We could agree on the focus. We could agree, at last, in the analysis of funds: Catalonia is not satisfied with the funding of either the national identity or the full exercise of self-government. The territorial model of the State generates deficits that accumulate in forms of negative fiscal balances and infrastructure deficits. Okay. If that's the case, what is necessary is to address the competition mark, the financial mark and taxes and the rules of play between Catalonia and Spain, but address it to solve it. But what the young man raises is becoming irrelevant in order to overcome the situation: they intend to keep us in a discourse of victimism in order to feed a dynamic of confrontation. This strategy has proved to be unsuccessful, leaving us installed where we were and not allowing us to move forward. The motion has been merely declared: calculating a presumption of the Generality without fiscal deficit is a theoretical exercise without practical utility, without real translation in terms of public policy. More than that, there is a squandering of public resources devoted to the propaganda cause of a party. It is certainly not ethically or politically or administratively sustainable, to use public officials to do theoretical exercises of full assumptions simply to make propaganda and feed confrontational reports. Is it used to feed stories? It won't be a presupposition or anything. Thus, the motion contains contradictory proposals: the State is required to urgently liquidate presumptive and non-executed investments and, at the same time, the State's 2023 State's presupposition is not required to be approved. How is it possible to use public resources, if they are not presupposedly recorded? Plant an oximoron, since, without the presupposition of 2023 to the State, it is hardly possible to plan to liquidate, neither in whole nor in part, pending investments. The young lady doesn't set up any way to the solution. Certainly, we have a real problem of financing and self-government competitions, and since then we have said so and made proposals for respect. A problem that is of quantity, whether in investments or in current expenditure, of sufficient inputs that have to be configured the assumption of public expenditure and investment, but is derived from a model of funding exhausted, expired since 2014. To change reality, we need to have an appropriate strategy. Following our victims and waiting for a better model to arrive, which we can always continue to criticize, will serve no purpose. What is needed is to build a model with as much consensus as possible, with the necessary territorial alliances, which allows us to give more strength to a proposal, which allows us to negotiate it to build a new model, to advance and overcome the current reality. Nor can we forget that when we talk about fiscal deficit, we have to define well what we mean by fiscal deficit. I would also agree that we agree with the insufficient fiscal pressure that exists in our country in relation to the eurozone. These six or seven points of fiscal pressure differential in relation to the eurozone explain the lowest public income, but also the lowest public expenditure. And this, to a good extent, is also in the fiscal deficit, which has an other component also of social hardship, since they are made higher than the less fiscal pressure they are enduring at these times in relation to lower returns. Obviously, we have a low-progressive tax model, which also clearly impacts the territorial fiscal deficit. It's the tax system we have, which also has a negative impact on that, and it would be worth it if we took it into account at the time of getting started. And, if Catalonia's financing model is unfair and insufficient, what we need to do is to build, in a consensual manner, a proposal that overcomes these weaknesses and imbalances. And this is the proposal that we have put forward, from the point of view, that you have not accepted. And we have also put forward a proposal to strengthen the areas of collaboration and cooperation, creating a monitoring and control office, obviously, of consensual and presumptive investments at the state level. Because we understand that it is not from confrontation, but from collaboration, from cooperation, from opening up spaces of innovation, from building proposals with broad consensus, that we can move forward. Otherwise, we will stay where we were: we will do a lot of victimism, but we will not solve the problems or give a response to the needs of our country's citizens. That's why we'll abstain in most points: they don't bring anything, they want to build a partisan relationship. Vote against points 4 and 8: they're absurd, they don't serve anything, they're useless. And we will vote in favour of points 5, 6 and 7. Points 5 and 6 also understand that they are on the line of strengthening common areas of consensus and work in Catalonia – these are the proposals made by the Republican Left – that will also help us to work together in Catalonia on investment and to strengthen social dialogue spaces. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.74.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.75.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, in this case, the Junta Group for Catalonia presents to us a motion that, as a matter of fact, has the fiscal deficit, the need for fiscal balances to credit this deficit, the investment deficit in our country by the State and the incompliments come from the different commitments that have historically been made to the Government of the State precisely in terms of investments in our country. Home, logically, it's a subject we know. It is a subject that we defend, which we believe in, precisely because the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left was the first to denounce these circumstances in the splendid times of the fish in the midst of the governments of Convergence and Union. Precisely because of this circumstance, we will abandon it, demand the need to arrange this situation. And, therefore, it is only right that we should take the necessary measures to reverse a situation which, in short, involves a deficit in the welfare of the citizens of our country, beyond the mere failure of the agreements that we have been able to achieve. That's why, of the eight points... most of them have already been admitted. We've been discussing... we've submitted up to three papers. They didn't accept one of them; we didn't deal a second, and in a third, unfortunately, we couldn't agree. It is his point number 8, that he asks the political formations that, precisely, they endorse the fact of this injustice, that they stop giving support to the general assumptions of the State. I have already referred to this in more detail, but it is clear that, since the independence of our parliamentary group, we cannot accept any impositions, and therefore, logically, we will not vote in favour of them. We, as I said before, have tried to improve this young man. Since the proposal made to us by Mr Canadell, they have carried a lot in order to request the advice of the chambers. An entity that we respect deeply, but that we understand that, in addition to them, there are other institutions in our civil society that have the ability to collaborate, precisely, in the determination..., to take a picture of the snapshot of these failures and to establish those needing investment in our country. And we deeply appreciate, in this case, the Member who has admitted the need to open up the object and, therefore, also with the problems that he could have, from the law of public contracts, so... find the approval of different institutions that can help us in this circumstance. I understand, however, that everyone who is more likely to be interested in it..., that it should not be so, because we should focus on the problem of deficit and incompletion of investment in our country, and probably – and I think you are not aware – most of the media attention lies in the fact that we respect the vote on the general assumptions, and, from our point of view, this is a manifest error. And, as I said before, we will not vote for it, but we will do it – and I explain it – for three reasons. My political trajectory, although modest and short, has taught me that openness, maximalism and ending us has never helped in our struggle for freedom in our country. On the contrary, what has done many times is penalize us, precisely, many times for absurd postureig. And a proof of this is probably the trial that will be held by the Parliamentary Bureau of the later legislature, huh? Secondly, because I understand that the current situation in our Parliament and the Government of our country is based on an agreement that has sunk two political formations and that is reflected in a series of extremes. And what we're doing in this young man is subverting this will, and, by the back door, with a young man, changing a strategic concept that most likely has to be adopted in other ways. And, thirdly and later on – and I have to say, and I say it with all the help – because the proper text, the way it is done or the will to impose it, so it reflects a certain paternalism respect for which the position of the Republican Left should be. And Republican Left, man, it's been many years since he was a major – he has more than ninety years, almost, history – and, certainly, he doesn't hold us back, this kind of recommendation, or, if not, a willingness to influence our decisions. This paternalism – I must also say – seems to be close to the epochs of Jordi Pujol, to the majority..., yes, yes, to the absolute majority of Democratic Convergence, and probably had its reason to be, therefore, in the electoral results of that context, but this day has changed, right? And, so, if we felt free in those days of deciding what seemed more adien to us, not to us, huh? To the benefit of the citizens of our country, you will understand that in the current political and electoral context we still feel more freedom. I'm done, President. I told him before that he wasn't a friend of apriorisms, maximalisms, but also, man, it's true that we live in a world where there are universal truths and they're said to be axioms, isn't it? And there is an axiom that is that only Republican Left decides what to do Republican Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.76.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, deputy Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.77.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Mr. Canadell, your propagandistic interpretations of the numbers for us have as much credibility as the theories of the Nova História Institute. [[Widow's remorse.]] You, as usual, make a macedonia of concepts; the barreja and try to give it a more or less epic report that allows it to continue feeding this epic of the weight in which they have settled. Plus, we have the impression that you have a reading comprehension problem. He has confided what the Deputy Director General of Autonomic Finance said in this commission of the historical debt, which seems to be his game. That's to say, what you've been explaining to us today from the Faristol is exactly the opposite of what the deputy director said. Reconsider the acts of this commission and see how you exactly deny what you have told us. Moreover, he told him that he cannot directly associate fiscal balances with historical debt. And, in addition, it would also be useful to clarify this concept of historical debt, which, to begin with, is not accounted for elsewhere. In fact, as our deputy, the Jordi Riba, gave him weeks back, they are formulating a new conceptual artifact of his propaganda. You know or should know – and I think you know perfectly well – that you can't take a sided cup, that you need to take a larger series, to see exactly..., or to do a more accurate analysis. And if we take the historical figures of the past two years, in the matter of reversal in Catalonia, both for the Government of Spain and for the Government of the Generality, you will see that both governments – both governments – have deficits in the hour of carrying out the set of supposed investments. We can't take any further figures, or, as the vice president did yesterday in the interrogation my group did to him, can we? try to discredit the reversal that the Government of Spain will carry out in this exercise. Why, look, if I take the data from the Department of Territories and Digital Policies, respect the investment – chapter 6, eh? – of the presuppositionary exercise of this year, and I hope that, for the benefit of Catalans and Catalans, this xifra increase... Do you know at these moments what is the obligation recognized in the matter of reversal of the Government of the Government of Catalonia? An 11,3_per_cent. So, man, we're trying to do a little exercise. Certainly, a four-fold reversal assumption lower than the general assumption of the State. Mr. Canadell, I believe you must descend from the nebula in which you are installed, which we must advance from pragmatism. We're looking for consent, project to project. We draft through technical offices the executed projects and the memories that allow us administrations to bid; this is the only way to produce. In fact, this is what the Socialist and Republican Left parliamentary groups did, which we agreed on the general assumptions of the state and there was a clause that would allow us to follow up on investments through equal commissions, which we started to do, project. And we could agree to increase the resources available to the Government of the Government of Catalonia. But, at this point, the Government of Catalonia must set out to work and lead – both things, to work and to lead – to reform the system of autonomous financing; first, seeking the consensus of Catalonia on the model to be defended, and then, with the rest of the territories of the Spanish State, on the basis, from our point of view, of a system of fiscal federalism just. And, of course, a final question – whether you have the information or not. The question is: do we know anything – now that I have the Economics Councillor also attending this meeting today – how do we distribute the €759 million of the third addition of the year 2008, which the Government of Spain has transferred or will transfer to the length of the year, and which is to be devoted to investments in mobility infrastructure?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.78.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr. Joan Garriga continues his words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.79.0	Thank you, President. Well, in this motion of Juntes two aspects are addressed: the reversal of the State to our region and the supposed territorial fiscal balances. In relation to the first, the reversal of the State to our region, some data. Catalonia is not the region with the least investment. The regions with the least investment are Navarra, La Rioja and Cantabria, speaking in their terms. The real investment of the State in Catalonia in the last ten years is proportionally the same as the average of all the regions of Spain. And Catalonia is the region of Spain that has received the most investment from the Ministry of Development in the last five years, 3,700_million_de_euros. And some thoughts on it. Comparisons are odious, and it is a very significant thing of what the autonomous state implies, these struggles and these territorial confrontations that you promote. Imagine if for a moment you do the same, the same exercise, in our beloved region, in Catalonia. For example, the budgeted in Badalona, executed by Montcada and Reixac, or what was the unfolding of the C-31 in Baix Empordà – here we determine the execution that was for Mont-ras, for Vall-Llobrega, for Palamós and for Palafrugell. That is, a genuine intellectual manipulation and a serious error that would cause totally sterile confrontations. Another reflection: here, basically, we also have a problem of budget execution due to the government of Pedro Sánchez, who support both communists, socialists and separatists. [[Some applause.]] Thanks, fellas. On the other hand, the Government... [[Rialles.]] No, I've been deluded. On the other hand, the Government of the Generalitat follows the technique of squid: they blame the Government of Spain for what the Generalitat does, not invest. There are some data that are very significant. The Generalitat spends an average of 0.40 of the budget on infrastructure, when the average for other regions is 1.68; 0.40 versus 1.68. Some almost reach two_per_cent. Why? Precisely because of his ideological prejudices. Because you, to build and to make roads..., believe it goes against the environment, and progress is compatible with nature conservation. This didn't like it so much, huh, fellas? [[Rialles.]] You are the government of no: not to the expansion of the airport, which is already provided; not to the Fourth Belt and not to the unfolding of roads. In relation to the second question, the supposed fiscal balances, require the fiscal balances per region, require that these fiscal balances be published and calculate the Generality's assumption on the basis of this supposed fiscal deficit. Look, first, we reject the territorial fiscal balance approach, a fellow member of the chamber said earlier: natural and legal persons, businesses and individuals, individuals and businesses, not territories, pay taxes. They do not pay taxes Sarrià - Sant Gervasi neither Barcelona nor Catalonia nor Aragon, they pay people, physical and legal. VAT, the IRPF, companies, assets, AJD, ITP, capital gains..., it is paid by people, not regions. Secondly, it is part of the separatist strategy to confront territories with such approaches. Victimism. This could also be applied within Catalonia. We could give reason to Tabarnia and say that all that is the coast – Tarragona, Barcelona – pays and maintains other provinces, but it would be unfair, it would be a totally unfair and false confrontation, and it does not go with the way to make community, with the way we want to make homeland and patriotism. And, of course, it could also be done within neighbourhoods of Barcelona, it has also been commented, right? There are some neighborhoods that pay a lot and they don't even get the subway, and others have many public services and they pay a lot less taxes. We will do a real exercise of what you propose and defend, for example, in a community of neighbors. Let's do the fiscal balance. Lucia, a thirty-year-old girl, works, quotes the fifteen_per_cent– they know that the fifteen_per_cent of whom she earns thirty_ thousand_ euros is seven and a half for the state, seven and a half the autonomous section –; she barely goes to CAP and has no children in school. And then there's Maria, a 70-year-old widow, who gets a pension, gets help and goes to the CAP a lot. Lucia's fiscal balance is negative, Maria's is very positive. And they demand to publish them. Shall we put it in the stall? Do we put the announcement on the bill so that Mary knows that she lives at the expense of Lucia's work? Shall we publish it? Is that what you propose? And then we tell Lucia that her budget..., that she could travel a lot more and change her car if she didn't have the burden of her neighbor Mary. That is what you are proposing with this motion. [[Some applause.]] The progressive tax system and social status are charged. It demonstrates once again what separatism is: liar, manipulative and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.80.0	It is the turn, now, of Congresswoman Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.81.0	Well, thank you. There are some class discourses that are very difficult to hold. We're in a young man who's a little bit of a... the young man from Congressman Canadell, who has varied things, but in the background we always go to the same, always around the same debate. I mean, we can say a lot, we know it's true, we can go over and over again, but we also generate tools and put in tools to reverse this situation, not only do we go over and over again. It's evidence, lack of investment. In fact, independence would probably not be here if the year 2007 did not have a platform in defence of the right to decide that you have placed the lack of investment in infrastructure at the center of the debate. So, more than just saying, we're putting up some tools. We will vote practically that yes to the whole motion; in some points we will abstain, basically because if 'nshi generate some doubts. The question is: how many reels is your criticism of someone else's approval of the assumptions? That is to say, we agree that if we demand and claim unexecuted imports..., or that we can claim the execution of the assumptions that are appropriate, that it is minimal and basic, but the question we ask ourselves is: for you, how many paths are needed? I mean, how many airports and how many quarter belts are needed for state investment? And here's where we differ. So there are certain points that we can't..., that, as they are written, we can agree with that, but you yourself, when you presented the motion, you said so. Then they'll cast doubt on us and we'll abstain. We believe that there is an element that is clear, in this lack of investments or in this lack of investments, that has to do with a logic as well as what the State is responsible for, because they can compare..., it's very good that I compare myself to Asturias, but the logic of the State is centralism, it's the one that is responsible for this. And this lack of investment responds to this: to the nature of the State, to centralism, to the need for it all to pass through the center, to capitality. And it's one of the perils where we can fall, too. I won't say it's the same, but we're seeing that one of the objects is also in the logic of building a republic..., it's to do different things, not to do the same. And now, many of the investments in transport continue to reproduce also the schemes that exist in the State, which is centralism, the need for everything to pass through Barcelona. And, therefore, we should also put elements here. Only those who say that there are things that are lied to and that are not true, the lack of investments. Rodalies : Government of Zapatero, promise of 4,000_millions; executed fourteen_per_cent. Rodalies : Government of Mariano Rajoy, promise of 4,200_millions; inverted or executed of 6,2_per_cent. Rodalies : Government of Pedro Sánchez, promised 6.340_millions; executed the dotze_per_cent. There's a part that..., the figures are who they are; then we can get enough of what they are, but the reality is what it is. There is a lack of investment or execution in those promises, and in things as clear and as basic as rollers, which are very much needed for a lot of people working in this country. Not investing in rollers is investing in rollers. Investing in reels is mortgageing the future of this country. More rollers, less rollers, less Quart Belt, Mr. Joan Canadell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.82.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.83.0	Thank you, President. Yesterday, at the control session, he spoke of the figures of the last period of two years, 2012-2022, which stated that the lack of presupposition of the Government of Spain respects Catalonia had been of the thirty-two-per-cent of midjana, and that of the Government of Catalonia, of the twenty-i-four. It is true that that of the Government of Spain is superior, but it cannot speak of a scandalous difference, and that, in any case, the scandal was the year 2021; indeed, in a degree of incompliment surprisingly low and reflecting the lack of credibility of the premise agreed with Pedro Sánchez, who had directly raised them the shirt, and that you are the ones of master games and cunning. But, well, given this initial consideration, I'd like to ask Mr. Canadell a series of questions, which if he has time to answer... ; some of them I can tell him that I will answer them, because they are rhetorical questions. U: do you return this twenty-and-four_per_cent not executed for the Government of Catalonia, as requested by others? This is the answer I: no; don't do it, obviously not. Two: what do they do with the unexecuted money? We don't know, but I'm sure it's good; it's more, given the precedents, probably illegal. Three: to monitor the non-execution of the Government of Spain. Perfect. And who's watching them for you? Clearly, because you can't watch, you can't follow, because you're sacred, you're the unpunished separatist elite. In the background, I understand that, because, with the difficult relationship you have with legality – it has passed to Mrs. Borrás or just passed to you with the Chamber of Commerce – it is normal that someone does not want them to watch. I must remember, of course, Mr Canadell, that what the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has said, among other things, is that you cheat; yes, you cheat. That's to say, I'm saying more than a king because, before I go out with this vehemence, not to say pre-potency, to give lessons to others... man, you don't cheat, that there's a little law left, to life, to cheat on these characteristics. Four: fiscal balances, okay, we're willing to publish. And the fiscal balances between Catalan provinces? And the fiscal balances between the city of Barcelona and the Government of Catalonia? And the fiscal balances between the Costa Daurada of Tarragona and the Government of Catalonia? I'd love to meet these guys too. Of course, these don't interest you, just the others. Well, we say either all or head – or all or head. If you come back with a strict proposal to look for follow-up systems for the Government of Spain, but also for the Government of Catalonia; if you want to go with a strict proposal to know the tax balances at all times, not only those that interest you, then you can take it and talk, but with this good that you have just presented as a young man, I feel it, but..., we will vote for everything you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.84.0	All right. So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.85.0	Well, I'd love to have 20 minutes, but I only have two. Let's do it. Listen to me, Mr. Martín Blanco, say that we are an outrage because we defend that Catalans enjoy our own taxes..., that's ridiculous, as it's ridiculous that you're still after losing Andalusia as you've lost it. Listen, have they talked about distributing wealth or misery? Because, or five... this is misery, not rich. On tax balances per barrel, I brought a young man here – I brought a young man here –, we flew who voted for them. Tell 'a country of the world that makes tax balances per barrel, already the replans are equal to me; per barrel, to see how many there are. In change, from interregional, when I tell everyone there; Germany, of course, of the most important. A little more rigor, Mr. Martin Blanco. Ladies and gentlemen of the commons... listen to me, when you say, Mr. Gallego, what a concrete measure... we have already said one, concrete: give it, give it and plant it, because there is no more, because we are forty years old, okay? So... what's strange to me is that you don't say, "No, no, you're right, and these 1,328_millions are going to complain, I'm going to Madrid and I'm going to complain. That's what they should have done, but they won't, we know that. He doesn't like the assumption without a fiscal deficit, because he certainly leaves it in evidence. And on the new financing system, listen, we haven't had five or six financing systems. Do you know what's going on? That the constant is eight_per_cent always, eight_per_cent of tax deficit. Gentlemen of the PSC, I haven't talked about historical debt, at least today, have I? But I see that you didn't mention that we have the twenty-and-five-per-cent risk of poverty, when I said before that every family is 200,000 euros, which they've stolen from them. And that would be important for you to explain. And to the lords of Esquerra... Mr Orobtig, we are not paternalists. Actually, we're your nets. You're ninety years old, we're two years old; we're your nets. But do you know what's going on? That we're in a hurry and want to go to work. Therefore, in any case, what we have to do is fold to finish what the people ask us to do. And we don't believe in the state anymore. If they want to, pay for the advance. And, as our President Puigdemont said to Argelers – I quote textually –: "There is enough, colons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.86.0	Let us begin voting on the motions discussed this morning, which, as you know, incorporate the papers and also the compromise papers admitted. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into emission reduction and ecological transition policies (cont'd)]] [[302-00160/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into emission reduction and economic transition policies. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 71 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 18 abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour and 46 abstentions. Let's vote for the rest of point number two. The vote begins. The remainder of item 2 was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 13 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 80 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was not approved, with 48 votes in favour and 84 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 has been approved, with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 105 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 17 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point 7_has been approved, with 119 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the territorial planning needed to ensure food sovereignty (continuation)]] [[302-00167/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the territorial order necessary to guarantee food sovereignty. Let's start by voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point 5.2 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point 5.3 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.4. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 80 votes in favour and 52 votes against. We're voting points 6 and 7. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 17 votes in favour and 115 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 113 votes in favour and 19 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse of government policies in relation to missing persons without apparent cause and forced disappearance of minors (continuation)]] [[302-00161/13]] Let's move to the vote on the... yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.87.0	We have forgotten to ask for a separate '11 and '13 vote; if perhaps, separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.88.0	11th and 13th, all right. We vote for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the impulse of policies regarding missing persons and forced disappearance of minors. We begin by voting points 1, 5, 6, 7, 10, 14, 15, 16 and 17. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 116 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 129 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We vote on points 8 and 9. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 123 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 107 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 126 votes in favour and 6 votes against. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 109 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number 18. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 107 votes in favour and 25 votes against. And finally, we vote on point 19. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 99 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 14 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into public procurement (continuation)]] [[302-00162/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into public procurement. And we'll start by voting points 1, 1a, 1.c and 1.g. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 103 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.d. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 73 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 34 abstentions. We're voting points 1.f and 1.i now. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 110 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point 1.h. The vote begins. This was approved, with 78 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 44 abstentions. We're voting now for the 1.j point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 104 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 18 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 104 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 12 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal balances and investment deficit (continuation)]] [[302-00166/13]] And, later on, we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into fiscal balances and the investment deficit. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 63 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 17 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 72 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 72 votes in favour and 60 votes against. We vote for points 5 and 7. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 71 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 80 votes in favour and 52 votes against. And finally, we're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 42 votes in favour and 90 votes against. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.89.0	Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into lawsuits as guarantors of the justice service of proximity]] [[302-00163/13]] And we do it with the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the lawsuits as guarantors of the justice service of proximity. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word, to expose it, by Mr Pere Albó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.90.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, as we know – and we have been dealing with it – the Council of Ministers approved on April 12th the draft organizational efficiency law of the public justice service, and only a few days ago, therefore, the term of the statements ended. The truth is that, as with many laws, if we stick to the statement – "the efficiency of the public service of justice – would it be unthinkable to find it caught up with it, because who can disagree that the public service of justice is becoming more effective? Obviously, no one. Undoubtedly, for a better efficiency of the justice service, we have to demand, therefore, the increase of material and personal resources – this would certainly be the most common thing – but it is certain that this does not depend exclusively on this, but it also calls for an efficient, rational, flexible and innovative organization, which allows changes that lead us to a model of justice that is competent and adapted to current times. We have been following very carefully the debates on this law, and we do not want to stop saying, because it might seem the contrary, that there are proposals of this which may seem positive and which must be working. And in this sense, for example, there's a certain consensus in favour of the court of first instance or the pilot courts, huh? And we want to leave it on the principle of this intervention. In fact, reforms in this sense have already been attempted, without success, in the years 2011, 12, in various legislative proposals. We have also, in the past, witnessed the reforms that have been introduced into the organization and directed above all to the establishment of the new judicial office. Well, let us hope, in short, that the Government of the State will have the urge to introduce the best that has generated consensus, at the same time that – like, for example, this subject of pau jutjats – it will receive the observations that we have made from the territory. Well, in this sense, as I've said many times already here, huh? We understand, and we want to translate it, that it's a mistake, so, this suppression of pau jutjats. And, in fact, tendria, at least in Catalonia, in other words, this object that the law says they want to look for. Maybe I can save a lot of data. You know this: currently, there are 898 jutjats de pa; in the north-five percent of the municipalities of Catalonia there is jutjat de pa– to the rest, practically all, is because they are their first instance and instruction jutjats–; they serve forty_per_cent of the population; according to 2010 data, the Lands of the Ebre are those that have a higher percentage of population attached to these judicial organs, up to 62.7; Lleida, a 55.9; Tarragona, a 49.75; Barcelona, a thirty_per_cent. In the conjunction of the State, there are 7,600, pau jutjats. And, well, all the governments of all colors have gambled for the pau jutjats. Preparing for this intervention, I've seen some statements from the student councillor Tura, huh? He explained that it had been possible for the justices of the poor to be a network – I bet for that– ; that he wanted to be a pioneer in its dimensions, and, for what he does to the Administration of Justice, the only one in the whole State that allows all his organs to be connected to defend that they were justices of the poor. And we're on board, and we're on board with this design in the network, huh? , of justice, of justice, which, therefore, leads us to the obvious proximity they have. And that's why... and I don't do it any longer, huh? At this time, all local actors, for this reason, agree that we should rethink this elimination of pau jutjas. This has been expressed by the municipalist entities, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Catalan Federation of Municipalities, the lawyers' colleges. And what happened? So I think... well, I've been... I've been in the Senate, for example, a debate about Senator Txema Oleaga with the Secretary of State. In the end, the secretary of state gave him why he was pulling this measure forward, and posed... "I give him an example: those who live in the Peaks of Europe have to go down to Oviedo and Gijon to a court to simply pick up a quote. We, with great pleasure, invite you to the Pallars – with Congresswoman Abella we have organized an excursion – invite you who correspond can come to see how the pau jutjats work; sure that the example of the Pallars we can translate to the Peaks of Europe. And in this sense, we will organize, therefore, at every place where it best touches, the function of justice and this important public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.91.0	As long as no papers have been submitted, then the groups will intervene to fix their position. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.92.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, workers and workers of the house... Miri, we thank the company of Junts that has presented this motion because what allows us to explain this profound reform that will be carried to the end by the Government of the State, from our party in Madrid, the PSOE. Mirin, when the young man reads – like the young man who has also presented different assemblies of the territory –..., they always do this system, they do it like a manor where they grab what they like best – they get a little bit of ruca, pinya or quetxup, if necessary – so that they have the taste, the tone and the taste you want. But in this case I think there's a basic mistake, which is that, with all respect, the truth is missing. Look, they've introduced a runaway young man from Catalonia who's directly told he's defending pau jutjats. The pau jutjats don't disappear with this reform. They don't just disappear, they're reinforced – they're reinforced. It's as easy as going to the law and reading it. Very easy – very easy. It's not just that, it's that the motius statement says it, that it wants to bet precisely on this figure. The only one, who's changing the name, is certain. They will become these justice offices in the municipality, which do not disappear in any way, and it is certain that it makes the figure of the judge disappear. The one I was asking me when I didn't understand why this was defending this figure... Why? And I think I got it. It's just that the reform provides that these staff can become the department of justice. So, with a mighty gentleman, I don't give money. What we cannot accept is that, with a reform that they want and will achieve is to modernise justice, to continue bringing justice closer to our citizens and citizens, which reinforces the justices of pa– now, at present, they will be fair offices in the municipality–, is said from here and with repeated motions that we want to make disappear. No, it's not. Look, we can explain to the people who were also the tasks that they had until now: civil trials to the tune of EUR – they will convince me that there was not a great task–, also civil registry functions– that this, obviously, will continue to be so, and reinforcing, more than anything else, this task–, and also the mediation system that was being commented on, and that is what will advise it – that we appreciate it being here – has repeated many times. Look, this reform that's done at the state level that you also foresee is the mark..., that's to say, the mediation system as an indispensable requirement to come to many of the plethos that are currently arriving directly at the courts. Therefore, we have not just heard why they want to do this – I believe, not too objective – to make people and citizens see that we want to make the justices disappear. Mirin, we, to talk, you know, whatever you want. But when he spoke, for example, of the company of Junts and Defenders, he said that there were more than seven thousand judges and judges from Spain... In the prisons that there is work at the state level for this reform, no one complained of the disappearance of the judges and judges from the country. None, neither Castella i Lleó, nor the Basque Country – none, only Catalonia – only Catalonia. And we have to remember that the courts and courts of law are the ones that in law, I mean, they do not have training in law. We don't think it's much more logical that it's formed, the judgment of pau – currently city justice office – for people trained in law? What's the problem? What we cannot afford is to go against progress, against the modernization of justice and, above all, with the profound reform that this entails at the level of justice, which is only fixed in detail. It's like I'm seeing a tsunami, and I'm worried about getting the tablecloth on the platter. I think that what we should do is try to value this opportunity very positively that we have and make contributions to it – absolutely true, she will advise – but contributions that, obviously, I do not wander at the expense of a fair, professional and modern way here in Catalonia and in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.93.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Sergio Macián, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.94.0	Thank you, President. Mr Viñuales, first of all, he was going to start the intervention. I read – quotes –: "With legislative reform, the so-called justices of peace disappear and instead the justice offices are created. Paragraph 4 of the explanatory memorandum. Unless I don't know how to read the preliminary draft law, it's quite clear here. Another thing is the opinion that we can each have. But the courts of peace disappear; they become offices, but at the front is no longer the justice of peace. The things clear and to lay the foundations and that there is no confusion. Junts presents a motion to claim the status of justices of the peace, which now the draft organizational efficiency law of the public service of justice, promoted by the Government of the PSOE, aims to abolish. Firstly, we have to say that it is barren to discuss in this Parliament issues such as this, which affect the architecture of the judicial system and the structure and composition of the administration of justice, on which this Parliament has no competence. But it is also surprising that you, Junts, who are the partners of the PSOE in Madrid, do not seem to have found out that it is your partner in the Government of Spain that is driving this bill – it is your partner. I ask myself: "Do you not speak to one another? , because they seem to be only interested in dialogue tables. If you have a proposal about the justice of the peace, bring it to your partner in the Government of Spain, in Congress, and do not bring here these motions that are condemned to be a declaration of good intentions. Secondly, with regard to the figure of the justice of the peace, we want to acknowledge the work of the justices of the peace and, above all, also the officials of the justices of the peace, who often have to carry out their work with very precarious means. But we believe that it is necessary to improve, transform, modify the current system of justice, which is slow and obsolete, by a system of justice that is professional, modern, agile, digital and close to the citizen. And, today, the greater complexity of the cases and the increase in litigation require a judicial organization that is professional and that allows the speedy and well-founded resolution of the cases. And it is clear that if we want professional justice, it must be provided by professional judges, integrated into the judicial career. That is why it is necessary to reformulate, to rethink the figure of the justices of the peace, because they are people, as has been said, legas in law, people who do not have legal training, who have not passed an opposition and who, therefore, hardly today have already recognized competences in the organic law of the judiciary. Among other things, we can highlight acts of conciliation in the law of voluntary jurisdiction, but which can be attributed to other persons or to other non-judicial institutions. For example, it is no longer the judge who knows the acts of conciliation in the courts of first instance, it is the lawyer of the Administration of Justice. The same can be done at the municipal level: small claims of quantity and, above all – above all – the acts of judicial assistance and notifications by the judicial bodies, which perform the justice of peace, and not so much the justice of peace. And, in this regard, we believe that good proximity justice involves reformulating these peace courts and betting, in whatever form and under whatever name, on more modern, professional and professional justice offices served by career officials who can provide services that currently the secretariats of the peace courts are not in a position to provide. A very pointed one, for example, could be to hold videoconferencing trials or to present in your municipality, in the municipality in which one resides, judicial documents addressed to judicial bodies. This, of course, without the need to make the citizens, especially in small and distant villages, move to the seat of the judicial bodies, which means a better service of proximity, avoiding, as we say, unnecessary displacements and costs. And there's a third question we don't want to overlook. In VOX we believe that politicians don't have to choose judges. We have said this actively and passively: that it is bad for justice for politicians to get their hands on the choice of judicial positions, that justice must be depoliticized and that judges must be appointed not for partisan interests or loyalties, but for the principles of merit and capacity. Therefore, we do not like the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the governing body of the judges, politicized since 1985 by the PSOE, which fulminate the spirit that presides over article 122 of the Constitution. Nor do we like the system of election of the justices of the peace, because the justices of the peace elect them by the plenary of the municipalities, and that is why they are under pressure from the politicians who govern these municipalities and who elect them. Therefore, we cannot ignore the fact that there are politicians and political parties who have an interest in electing, from the city halls, justices of the peace to be able to control this small portion of justice in their peoples. And, look, the politicization of justice is one of the most obvious signs of the deterioration of institutions. If we want democratic quality and justice of the twenty-first century, we must guarantee the professionalism and independence of judges in all judicial bodies, from the first to the last. And, of course, in VOX we hope that future legislative reforms will go in this direction, as we have repeatedly claimed from my party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.95.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.96.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. With regard to this motion presented to us together, we will vote in favour of the first point of the motion, and of the second point, the letter to, but not the second point, calling on the Spanish Government and the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies and the Senate to modify this draft of the law. We will, however, make a critical yes. Three ideas we want to put on the table in relation to the young man. In the first place, about the current attributions that have pau jutges. The young man's motivating statement, we understand she's optimistic, because she says that the lawsuits have demonstrated their usefulness and efficiency in resolving conflicts. We don't think he's been like that, and he's not feeling that right now. And, obviously, this is not because of the lack of gain of the people who work there, it would just be missing, but because of the very few skills they have attributed to the law and the constant deficiencies of material and personal media, and the lack of promotion, right? , of visualization by the public powers. I looked at the data that there were pinjades on the website of the Department of Justice. I have looked at the province of Girona, because it is the one that was most close to me, and says, for example, that, in the civil sphere, there were 319 acts of conciliation, 19,672 exhortations, 4 verbal judges and 1,550 other minor acts. In relation to the civil registry, 9,450 registrations of manual births, 5,000 and death tolls, 4,000 of manual marriages, and an equal xifra through computer systems. Therefore, of the figures that we have on the website of the Department of Justice, if something was going on, it is that the majority of actions are instrumental. So, this proximity justice that... well, it should be like this, basically right now is centered on helping other jurisdictional bodies. I, of resolving conflicts between veins, see little. The second idea: on which a fully democratic institution follows. The jutjats de pa, as it was said, are a hybrid, they are judicial organs, they are the first escalation of the judicial structure, but they serve as an administrative structure of the assemblies that elect them. It's about figure, motion, fully democratic. We would speak more quickly of indirect democracy. And if we look, for example, at the right compared to the countries of Latin America, as, for example, Venice, we do see that there is an effective bet for the justice of proximity, but it can speak with all the rigour of fully democratic structure. There the courts are elected by universal, direct and secret ballot, and thus consider basic structures to link the community with the judiciary. Yes, as you say to the young lady, this figure has a tradition in time and, in fact, we want to focus on the fact that it was, precisely, during the Second Republic that it was focused on these ideas of proximity and democracy of pau jutges. Ideas that obviously ended with the Civil War and the dictatorship. The third idea: about the need to delete them or not to delete them. We agree with the young man when he says he has to work to avoid his elimination, but we don't just have to avoid them being eliminated, but we have to reformulate them. And in its reformulation we cannot follow the model that now, of competitions, establishes the organic law of the judiciary and the law of demarcation and plant. In fact, the Statute of Autonomy has a very concrete article that says that the Generality has powers over pau justice and that it also has powers to urge that a system of proximity justice be established that aims to resolve minor conflicts with speed and effectiveness. Therefore, our Statute expressly confirms this competence. Therefore, what we have to do is to start making the relevant law, which is already the Council of Justice of Catalonia, because it proceeds to the naming of courts, and that this naming is not left, as it is now, in the hands of the TSJ – the ratification of the nomination – and we go further beyond these purely organizational and administrative skills that we are currently exercising. To the memory of the TSJ – I want to remember that it was presented a few weeks ago to the Commission of Justice –, it is not absolutely king of the judgments of pau. Therefore, we see that it is not too much on the political agenda of the judiciary, to set out to decide anything about the trials, more than king because we have a judicial power every time more folded in itself and more elongated from the community. So, we repeat, what it is now is to start to legislate from here, because it is true that we are making the same diagnosis that you are making to the young person, that we are witnessing a recent process of competition on the part of the central government and that we can avoid everything that is possible for us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.97.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.98.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs and MPs... The Spanish law's draft of procedural efficiency measures for the Public Justice Service falls within this recovery, transformation and resilience plan approved by the Government. And, therefore, this law must be approved, as you all know, before December 31, 2022. This law, from our group, we think it introduces positive reforms to modernise justice, increasing agility, speed, efficiency, and previews the celebration of visions and other types of statements through videoconferencing, for which this will avoid displacements of cities and citizens from smaller populations, as well as from professionals to go to their courts and tribunals. And, therefore, it is, in this sense, a better one. A law that sets out positive changes, certainly, in its display of motius, but that the object that you say defend the law of contributing to cohesion and justice in the citizenry, we also think that it is not yet sufficiently reflected and, therefore, there is scope, right? , better because we really have this true justice of proximity. Entering the content of the motion presented by Junts, we agree with the need to give support to the justice of pau as the justice of proximity that we have always defended. And so, in this sense, we will support it because we think that what it is to do that these justices of pau and this transformation into these offices..., what has finally come to pass is to really follow an opportunity to provide more media and skills that do more about this justice. And, for that matter, we think, don't we? , that the purpose of this proposal for organic law..., which, at these times, is still to improve it. That said, from our parliamentary group we will do all we can to ensure that this inn in the run-up to these municipal offices is done, therefore, with the maximum and necessary resources and that these are still transferred to the Government of Catalonia, so that we can correct it, huh? , part of the funding gap we're running. As a result, we think that what is needed is to improve, to agree to this law with a proposal as much unity as possible, to make compatible these legislative changes, to promote this agility and judicial efficiency, with the permanence of the functions of the courts. And, therefore, in parliamentary processing we hope that this synchrony can be resolved. But we also think that, in this sense, it is not appropriate to place the debate on this issue as an element of confrontation with the State, but to place it precisely in the need to improve the mechanisms that ensure that the fairness of proximity and the effectiveness of local mediation are real in this resolution of conflicts. We understand, therefore, that the motion went in this line of improving the proposal of law and of making, therefore, all these claims in Catalonia's claus. We'll give support to this young man. And I also don't want to finish my intervention without making a recognizance of the workers and the workers of justice, who every day make these lawsuits work, even though many times, at last, they have to advance with their own resources in order to be able to make notifications, to be able to do the different actions that, precisely, they have to do outside the lawsuits, which we think is to be put in value as a compromise that they have with justice and with our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.99.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.100.0	Thank you, President. Well, this motion presented to us by the Junta Group for Catalonia to claim the import of judgments and judgments seems to us, let's just say, that it has two parts that we have to value in a very different way. The first point of the motion for a resolution – the one given to me by Mr Pere Albó, to whom I am sure I would always like to acknowledge and thank his kind and pedagogical tone, which seemed to me, therefore, especially, let us say, worthy of being claimed and defended in this chamber – has a point that says that « the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its support for the task of making judgements as guarantors of a model of justice of proximity to the territory. This first point, we share it absolutely. Indeed, we want to claim the task, the job that the judges do in all of Catalonia and in Spain. But this does not mean that we have to keep ourselves in a system of justice, a part of justice, let us say, even though it is not part of the judicial system, but, in any case, a part of the Administration of Justice, which facilitates the lives or has to facilitate the lives of citizens. In this sense, we believe that the law that is being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, in the Courts General, is a law that, precisely, is in line with modernising justice and avoiding the politicization of justice, that is, obviously, a sacre that affects the conjunction of Western democracies and that, obviously, there are elements, there are spaces in which also continues to affect the Administration of Justice in our country. But in any case, we believe that the work of the justices of peace is worthy of praise. And that's why we want to add to Mr. Albó's words in this sense. Now, we consider the project that is being carried out by the Courts General of the Offices of Justice to be a positive one; we believe that they are modernizing the Administration of Justice and, moreover, they are in line with what is being done to other countries of our democratic environment. And, therefore, we cannot give support to the second point, that what you basically say is that it is work to avoid the permanence of justices..., to prevent the suppression of justices from our community. We sincerely believe that the signs of time go in another direction, and that is why we defend, we insist, this reform. That said, yes, we would like to stop at a point about a question having here the Councillor of Justice. And, without being too much granted today – first, with Mr. Albó and then, with you, Mrs. Ciuro – I would like to congratulate you as a government for a campaign that you have set in motion, which has the slogan of "To serve the català to justice does not change the feeling. Miri, every time the government makes a campaign some we analyze with magnifying glass – I don't tell you otherwise – and many times we disagree with what advertising campaigns, in some cases propagandistic, often, of the government. In this case, I think the campaign or we think the campaign is manageable. Now, I believe, Madam Counselor, that it would also be good for the Government to recognize that, with this same campaign, it is incurring a huge challenge to the totality of previous plans of this Government and others and, above all, of associations like the Government, such as the Language Platform. I've had enough, these years, of hearing about the lack of equanimity of the judgments that they exercise or that they have for Catalonia; I've had enough of feeling supposed to be heavy and attacks on those people, those citizens who want to serve Catalonia to the judicial institutions. And I, from my humble position and from my modest knowledge, know perfectly well that the vast majority of the courts that serve Catalonia have the will to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens together, speaking the language that I speak. Therefore, I believe that there is a great contradiction in his campaign, that I am pleased that, indeed, any city of Catalonia can serve the two languages of Catalans to justice, català and castella, and this does not change in absolute sense of feeling, it does not change in absolute treatment or protection, the protection of their rights as citizens. It's true that they end up imposing themselves. And, therefore, from this point of view, I insist, when we see this campaign throughout Catalonia, we celebrate that it is recognized that, effectively, the courts and tribunals of our country act impartially and in agreement with the law, whatever the ideological position, language or any other personal or social character that affects any of the parties. I also wanted to make this claim of the courts, in this case of the ordinary courts and tribunals of our country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.101.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, then the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.102.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'll do it very briefly. We want to express all our support for the figure of the justices of the poor, which is sure to bring justice closer to the city. It is true that they are the best known of the reality of their social environment. And, therefore, we believe that they can bring here, so, things that may be with this modification that the preliminary draft presents respect for this conversion into judicial offices we could lose them. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of this first point, where is manifested the support and recognition to the pocket that the pau jutjats make, that I want to remember that it is an institution that exists since 1835 and, therefore, practically carry two seconds of service to the community, that it is what the pau jutges do. And I think it's important, therefore, to recognize him from this Parliament. I, respect the points, we'll take a separate vote. In this case, we will give support to the letter for such work, therefore, to keep this figure. And, as far as point b is concerned, this is being processed in the Congress of Deputies at these times. And, therefore, what we shall be doing will obviously be talking to our parliamentary group so as to propose the points that are appropriate in this respect. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.103.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr. Jaume Butinyà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.104.0	Thank you, President. Since it cannot be otherwise, from the Group of the Left we will vote in favour of the motion. The courts of law are recognised or are recognised for the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and for the organic law of the judiciary. There have been practically no trials in the totality of the Catalan municipalities. But here the issue is not so much the jutjats, but the jutges and jutgesesses of pau, who are a very busy figure in our territories of a long time ago, mediating which it is possible to manage justice from nearness, making use of mediation to resolve conflicts. It is a good way to bring justice to the city, offering a public service of organized and efficient justice. The trials of pa are men and women who know the day-to-day life of the municipality. They know the costumes, they know the way to do it, and who's the tarann of that municipality in concrete terms. Especially in smaller municipalities, and this is the most important part. It's been a while since we've seen the Spanish government take advantage of any opportunity to refocus competitions. Each time it becomes clearer that, with the most progressive government in history, it only thinks of uniformity, homogenization and the disappearance of any distinctive feature. This time I want to take advantage of the draft organic law on organizational efficiency of the public justice service, which in its wording obvious this figure. The approval of this law would suppose the disappearance of the figure of the justice of pa and, consequently, the rise, a little more, of the justice of the citizenry. The pau jutjats are first line justice, and often resolve, avoiding conflicts, that arrive at first instance jutjats. But not only that; you also offer services as the civil registry can be. In this Parliament – and it doesn't matter – we have discussed the abandonment of the rural world on a number of occasions and we have agreed that one of the reasons for this abandonment is precisely the lack of services. If the pau jutjats of our peoples disappear, we will give a more reason to leave. Finally, we want to make a daily recognizance of the work done and give our support to all those who work in pau jutjats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.105.0	Well, thank you very much. So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this late, a solid time on the 23rd of the order of the day. [[Statement by the Board of Spokesmen on the situation in Ecuador]] [[401-00019/13]] Next, we will read a statement by the Board of Spokesmen on the situation in Ecuador, which have been signed by the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left, Junts per Catalunya, the Candidature of Popular Unity and In Common We Can. And we welcome and greet Eloy Alfaro, the Union for Hope and the Association of Indigenous Traders. And I'd ask the second secretary if I wanted to read this statement from the Board of Spokespersons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.106.0	« Statement by the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokesmen on the situation in Ecuador. On June 13, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, and other social organizations launched a national standstill in protest against the policies of the Ecuadorian government. This social protest has been rebutted by a disproportionate use of force exercised through the army and the police, which could have led to arbitrary arrests. The statement of the state of alarm to various provinces of the country and the facts described above do not contribute to the existence of a climate of democratic normality or respect for indigenous minorities, which they have right to be respected. It is for this reason that it is necessary for the authorities of Ecuador to take urgent measures to ensure that this situation does not occur. With the arrival of the mobilization to the capital of the country, the police and military forces have prevented the right to protest, collected in article 98 of the Constitution of Ecuador. For all this, the Catalan Parliament's Board of Spokesmen regrets the death of people due to violent confrontations during mobilizations, and condemns the disproportionate use of force against mobilised people, and all those actions that may tempt against their phone rights. Condemns any speeches addressed to the indigenous peoples and nationalities of the Equator of racist and stigmatizing character that contribute to polarizing Ecuadorian society. He calls for the guarantee of rights to social protest and resistance, both rights protected to the Ecuadorian Constitution, and urges the Ecuadorian authorities to guarantee the rights and freedoms of defenders of human rights and of social and indigenous organizations. He believes that the Government of Ecuador must apply the doctrines that the international right recedes in relation to the use of force by the forces of security, and demands that it is guaranteed in the civil rights process and the presumption of innocence of detainees, among them those of Leonidas Iza, president of the Conaie. Express your solidarity with the Protestants and make a call to the dialogue with full guarantees and conditions for all the actors involved. Palau del Parlament, June 29, 2022. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.107.0	Well, then, let's get to the twenty-two point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its policy to give support to workers registered under the special regime of self-employed workers]] [[302-00164/13]] The motion following the question to the Government about its policy to give support to workers registered under the special regime of self-employed workers. It was introduced by the VOX Parliamentary Group, and has the word, to expose it, by Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.108.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. The autonomous are the backbone of our economy, the seed of much innovation and business creation. Are we supporting them enough? I don't think so. They are being massacred, forgotten and mistreated by different governments. They are beaten to taxes, social contributions, bureaucracy of all kinds, obstacles to gogó and are often sent directly to ruin. They work more than anyone else, generate employment, keep alive the spirit of entrepreneurship that any country needs to be competitive, contribute to the maintenance of public services and in return receive almost nothing. That's the autonomous ones in this country. In Catalonia there are about half a million autonomous people, who are more and more asphyxiated every day. The energy fired, a government of Spain that uses them as its particular hut, mafias to keep you camping to its wide, problems to obtain raw materials, rents by the clouds, an inflation triggered, above already ten_per_cent, and rising. And all of that is eating them by the feet. Gentlemen, something needs to be done. The Government of Catalonia can and must do things to help those five hundred thousand autonomous people, as it reminded and asked the Councillor in the past plenary, right? Esquerra Republicana can also work to convince its partner, Pedro Sánchez, to defend the vitality of the autonomous, and can also use Catalonia's budget to promote measures that lighten its heavy burdens. One example: this Monday I read that the Councillor approved a €45.5 million aid package to help the self-employed. Fifteen days ago, in the interpellation I was told that this was impossible to do. No, he did, and he did on Monday, and I congratulate him and thank him. And the autonomous people of Catalonia also thank him. Any help is little. Can More Be Done? Of course you can do more. Just as this package of measures can be adopted and presented last Monday, other issues can be implemented. And that's where this motion from the VOX Parliamentary Group comes in, isn't it? We ask that efforts be made to ask Minister Escrivá not to just approve the hack that is going to tip the self-employed through the increase in social contributions. A real barbarity. If you can do something in terms of influence or in terms of being able to subsidize this bestial increase in the social contributions of self-employed people, you have to do – you have to do –; therefore, apply that policy of subsidizing at least part of the social contributions paid by self-employed people in Catalonia. Other autonomous communities do. Why can't it be done here? European aid needs to be extended and the need to reach them, the self-employed and the... almost nothing is coming. Then, in the debate, then, we will talk. But the money's not coming. Neither the self-employed nor the micro-symes. Digitization Plans? The self-employed aren't getting there either. They're not getting to them. Its capacity to be able to finance itself must also be improved. It can't be that every time you go to a bank, you look at them as suspected suspects and as if they were thieves. I mean, that's good! Work must be done to enable self-reliant people to finance themselves and invest in new projects. Because, if not, the Catalan and Spanish economy will not continue to grow. We need to reduce bureaucracy, we need to devote part of the tax collection on hydrocarbons and electricity received by the Generalitat de Catalunya, precisely to help them pay energy bills. Yeah, get out of here. It can be. Or do we have to spend that money on other things? You can devote yourself to that. In other words, money entering through electricity and hydrocarbons may be intended to offset the effects of rising prices on these issues. We must therefore combat this bestial fiscal pressure, we must fight against the mafias to keep you, as we said before; to put aside climatic stories and initiatives such as that of the restriction posed by the low-emission zone of Barcelona, which is starting for two transporters in Barcelona. And, by the way, she's been laid down by justice. And that's what I mean when hysteria and the climate agenda are affecting people's lives. Because all that is derived from all that. And, in the end, there are people who can't get into Barcelona, you can't change the van and what you have to do is close your business because this is a very good question for you. In short, there is also a need to improve the licensing of works and activities. I believe it is a motion that responds with realism and common sense and constructive tone to try to help the autonomous. We already know that they won't support us because it comes from VOX and everything that comes from VOX is fatal, but at least steal some ideas and start it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.109.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word the deputy Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.110.0	President, Members, Members... Mr Gallego, thank you for bringing us this issue that we have been dealing with for so many years here in this Parliament without much luck, many times, since we have not been able to approve or at least change the treatment that is being done or that has been done with the self-employed in our community and, indeed, at national level, recently neither. Anyway, I want to start by telling you that you have made a constructive motion and that you have not been put to the vote... or that you are often not voted on any of the points you put forward. But when we table amendments from this group, you do not accept them or call us or tell us anything. And, in fact, possibly, the point we have put forward is the most concrete of all that is in this motion, because when one begins to review the motion... That we are going to vote, essentially, that yes, because, of course, in the end, there are a whole series of proposals that are quite – and you know it, because I think we have once commented on it – inconcrete and that the only thing that, in the end, we are talking about is things like ‘promoting timely legal and urban changes,' "what you can perhaps do, that is, something like doing everything possible to make the self-employed happier. It's as concrete as that. Faced with that, someone can hardly vote no. But it is true – and it is very true, and I pass, a little, to what you have commented from the beginning – that being autonomous in Catalonia and also throughout Spain is almost a suspect in many respects, and that I think it is being treated in a very negative way, especially recently, in recent years, in Catalonia. We have half a million autonomous people, as you said. For example, one essential fact: in Spain – we have national data – one_of_each_three autonomous undertakes out of necessity, something that at European level is almost ten points below. We are in that thirty_y_eight_per_cent undertakes out of necessity and twenty_per_cent in the rest of Europe. That is to say, here there is a need, due to the lack or inability to have a much more active or much more dynamic labour market, to enter and start undertaking. And, in the end, self-government is very linked to entrepreneurship. And here we have another problem that has also been mentioned and that you have commented on, but it is true: it takes us almost three months to start a business in Spain, when in the rest of Europe the average is ten days. This is essentially so, and this is one of the explanations that, at least from our point of view, are not able to give or explain why. In addition, the Government of Spain has decided or decides to increase or increase – the so-called "hash to the self-employed" –... in many respects. That is why I am surprised that the proposal we made to you, which was, therefore, to establish an aid programme that would allow the flat rate to be extended for one year – something very concrete, something very obvious, something very useful for an autonomous –... you have not accepted this point of addition. It was one more point, simply, we weren't even modifying one of his proposals. With which, sometimes, one wonders if it is not that it goes quite well, to you, that you already vote that not because it is you. I don't know if it's something that, perhaps, is posed in this chamber as a wrong strategy on the part of many parties. I am not going to comment, as I said before, because there are many points and, in fact, much of what we have defended many years in this Parliament, and also in Congress, because we have already commented on it and I do not think that we should enter into it. Yes, we would have liked to have seen – and we will in the future – many more proposals for social protection for the self-employed. We achieved in 2017, in the 2017 budgets at the Congress of Deputies, establishing paternity and maternity leave for self-employed people, something that..., or at least improve on that aspect, and some other measures of protection to self-employment, which I believe is also basic and essential for an self-employed person or a person who wants to undertake to be able to do so. And, of course, all the other problems that continue to exist, such as access to digitisation, vocational training, innovation, knowledge transfer, etc., we have failed or failed to tackle. I think we are very far from achieving precisely that, from having the vision that the self-employed is an entrepreneur and is not a worker mistreated many times by the Administration. And in that we do agree, Mr Gallego. Nothing more, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.111.0	So, then, to fix his position, he has, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.112.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... two weeks ago, VOX presented us with an intervention on the autonomies, at least its first part. The second part was already about the classics: the jutjats, the usual coups d'état and the classics. Today he added another classic: climate stories, reincarnation of Rajoy's cousin version VOX. And, in the midst of his intervention – I have had the pleasure of being able to pass it on and read it carefully; to read carefully what they say sometimes, the people of VOX – he said something that called for my attention strongly. Mr Gallego said that 'in this Parliament it is not usual, it is not normal to talk about self-employed workers. And I was surprised by that statement, because a deputy with his long political experience..., because they are all public offices since the 99, having been councillor, councillor, provincial deputy, deputy in the Courts, in the Parliament, even by two different parties. It is difficult for me to understand that I have not been able to look into the fact that in the last four years Parliament has discussed, inter alia, the specific autonomous working commission, seven resolutions with concrete measures or forty questions to the Government on this subject, as well as fourteen briefings to discuss with experts and autonomouss. Man, it seems to me that it is not a small thing, what has been seen in this Parliament. You have to inform yourself, Congressman. We must come here informed and not let go according to what falsehoods, for the sake of the institution and also for the sake of the truth. But what caught my attention was the following statement: "VOX has come to this Parliament to talk about the real problems of Catalans. But do you really know what the real problems of Catalans are? Have you seen him? Did you feel it? Do you know what the first concern of Catalans in this country is? Do you know, what is it? It's unemployment and job insecurity. That is the first problem in this country. Neither Islamism, nor the flags, nor the climate stories that you speak of, nor many themes that you from the Faristol love to repeat. Therefore, seeing your concern for real problems, for the most vulnerable, and bearing in mind that the first problem is unemployment and job insecurity, I wonder: and why have you, who are concerned about these real problems, voted against labour reform and against the interprofessional minimum wage? And why do they want to cut pensions? And why do they want to lower compensation for dismissal? For I will tell you clearly: because you are against the workers of this country. You have to say it loud and clear and as it is. You do not want, under that cheap populism you use, to defend the working class of this country. And they come here and they bind the blanket to their heads, with a populist, superficial discourse and with measures that we have seen inconcrete, to say that they now support self-employed workers. Well, let's see if it's true or not, what you say, with your own actions, with your own votes. In recent months we have had the great pleasure of being able to contrast your votes in the Congress of Deputies with what you say in this Parliament, and it is only necessary to see what your party votes on those measures and what VOX really thinks. Let's see some quick examples. Low light price: abstention. Support and protection measures for self-employed persons in the pandemic: abstention. Direct aid to self-employed persons transferred to the Autonomous Communities: abstention. But there's more. Gasoline bonus – key for many self-employed –: against. Discontinuation benefit for self-employed persons: against. Lines of help to transporters – which you said in your intervention that they suffered from hell –: against. Launch of ICO endorsements for self-employed: against. And do you have the defachability to come here and say that you have no help, the self - helpers? Really? After this curriculum they accumulate in the Congress of Deputies? "That you have to be with them," they literally said the other day, "when things get ugly. You have to have very little shame for such hypocrisy. You said in your speech that governments cannot continue treating the self-employed as if they were ATMs. All the reason of the world. But not as if they were fools. We must treat those as intelligent people who are, intelligent citizens who know what they really care about and what they don't. And respect them. They know perfectly well the fraud that VOX represents for the self-employed and as you do not care the least about the workers of this country. Because it is difficult in less time to show more contempt for a collective. And, look, let me finish this last minute with a phrase that illustrates today's debate, and it says this: "The truth is too simple, but you always get to it on a complicated path. Does that ring a bell, Congressman Gallego? It's a phrase from Bruce Springsteen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.113.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.114.0	Well, thank you, President. Two weeks ago, there was this call around the local workers and she said: "Help the local people because they can cope with the increase in electricity, gas, buta, gasoline. Now that, in addition, we are seeing how inflation does not stop pushing is when it comes to taking clear steps and deciding. You want to help the locals to cope with electricity, gas, but, in change, those measures that are actually effective in controlling the price – price control, public intervention... –, that is not. It must be because what you don't want to touch are the benefits of great electricity. As we see the approximate benefits that are calculated for 2022 of Iberdrola, Repsol, Naturgy, are around 30,000_million euros, you do not want to touch these benefits and, in the background, what they want is to deplete even more the workers. Because you say that they defend workers, but if we look at their main economic measures..., reduce public spending: totally agree; that it is easier to welcome workers, it is to say, at the same time free: agree; the minimum interprofessional wage must rise: totally disagree; public health must not care for all the people who live here: totally agree; the State must subsidize culture: totally disagree. What's his defense of the workers and the workers? It's nonexistent. You defend trade unionism is the unionism of the free trade union vertical to the employer's service. And that's what they do: to be in the service of the employer and the great fortunes. [[Some applause.]] And all the measures they apply are to benefit those who are up and impoverish those who are down, despite the fact that they are filled with an absolutely empty rhetoric, which does not translate into real politics that improves the living conditions of the people of this country, of the working class of this country. And there are practically three minutes left, but since you also say that you are defending taxi drivers, I will end with the phrase that Tito Álvarez said here, to the Faristol of the press room of the Parliament: "We don't know how to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.115.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word, after all, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.116.0	Well, good one's late. We will vote against this motion – I assume that Mr Gallego will not be surprised, that we are voting against it – basically because I don't think he is focusing on the problem well. Finally, as a young man, he puts some questions there, as in the past, like he doesn't want it, doesn't he? He talks to us about ‘top manta', he talks to us about the low-emission zone, he talks to us about citizen security... Clearly, he takes advantage of a reality – autonomous work is a reality, to protect it, let's not say no – but here we have a classical speech in the position of the group of the extreme right, who defended this young man. You can't put the "top manta" problem as you don't want the thing when you're talking about autonomes; you can't talk about citizen security when you're talking about autonomes; you can't put the issue of low-emission zones in terms of autonomes. Or it is intended to confuse everything and then manipulate the reality and the problem of autonomous work to affect other questions of falling very ideologically, to confront, in short, political. It does not speak, on the other hand, of other realities that it would be useful to address, in Catalonia, in the State, which is the reality of false autonomes, the reality of an important group of workers who are being fraudulently used by large and medium-sized enterprises such as false autonomes, so as not to give them high in the general rule and exploit them. That's not what he's talking about; he wants to talk about autonomes and he doesn't talk about false autonomes, when with false autonomes we have a real problem of people, of people who certainly exist, who have a certain problem. But that's not what he's talking about. It speaks, yes, of the « top manta, it speaks of citizen security, of the area of low emissions, and obvious a reality like that of the false autonomies. When we talk about self-employed workers, we talk about many things, certainly. We are talking about these 560,000 people, roughly, who in Catalonia are in the autonomous working regime, the conjunction of the occupied population of Catalonia, of 3_million_i_mig of working people. Of course, fifteen per cent, roughly, of self-employed workers; that the crane is, moreover, in the service sector, obviously followed by the construction sector and the primary sector; followed by the industry sector, on the whole and with less presence. But this sector of self-employed workers..., about eighty_per_cent do not have salaried jobs, they are individual people who work for themselves. And here, obviously, a clear protection, from, in this case, the own Inspection of Work. And I need to claim it, more still, control to prevent some of those who work without being employees from being falsely self-employed and also to ensure that they apply the special rule of self-employed workers, the regulations of the State conducive to self-employment to guarantee them the maximum of rights. But there are also other collections, which are certainly smaller. When we talk about self-employment, we are also talking about corporate partners, members of boards of directors who are donated as high as self-employment and are members of boards of directors. They exist, nothing happens. But it's also worth having, because, if not, we end up making very simple speeches when we talk about the problems that self-employed workers have with social security contributions and with future pensions that they will receive. Because it's certain that the autonomous work..., autonomous workers have half an 831_euro pension, while the workers and workers of the general rule have half a 1,388_euro pension; obviously, a difference of forty_per_cent. But possibly this difference in forty_per_cent is explained by many things. Some, who are negotiating in Madrid between representatives of self-employed workers and representatives of the Government of the State to address, appropriately, social contributions to the real admissions of self-employed workers, because there are self-employed people who should be paid for real admissions, who would overcome and allow them to have higher contributions, higher than they have, in function of low contributions that are being made. On the other hand, there will be other self-employed workers who will be able to improve cooking, because they have few tickets. But we can't treat them all the same. It will, therefore, be necessary to maintain the old social dialogue that is being held by the representatives of the local workers and the government to guarantee these issues. Therefore, we would vote that it is not because we believe that it is a young woman who does not help to address the real problem and who falls more into rhetoric than anything else. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.117.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, after all, Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.118.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. We like this motion – we like it – and we are going to vote in favour, because, moreover, it is a motion that is very complete. It is true that it is ambitious in many of its points, covering many subjects. Issues, for example, related to the phenomenon of insecurity, which, by the way, is the first cause of concern for Catalans, especially Barcelonans. It is not something we invent, but it is recognized by the city council itself. In the last barometer of the city presented by the government team, it was recognized that insecurity is the first cause of concern among the Barcelonans, followed also by the economy, which is intimately linked to the protection we give to our SMEs and our self-employed. He also talks, for example, about the phenomenon« top manta. Moreover, I insist, it comes into quite a few questions: tax issues, which we too fully share. It is true that the self-employed have a double condition; they are employers and are employed at the same time, and they have the worst of both worlds. They are the most unprotected, they have the least rights, but also, on the other hand, often and in most cases, what they do is put at risk all their assets, all the savings of their lives. And so, in times of crisis like the one we are still going through as a result of the pandemic, where many have had to close their businesses, the consequences are totally devastating. And, in many cases, it will be very difficult for some to stand up and, therefore, the Administration has to help them, because we cannot be strangers to what has happened. The management of the pandemic, in terms of aid and treatment of both SMEs and self-employed people by the Government of the Generalitat, has been harmful – harmful. And I would even say that it has been cruel, with a system of totally inadequate aid, with measures that one day were one way, the next day of the other and the next month different. And where even, then, a system of aids was designed where it seemed that we had to go to the race, literally. I insist that it has been a disastrous and, in some cases, even cruel management. I believe that we all share here that the autonomous are the engine of our economy; it seems to me to be an undeniable reality. But, however – I insist again – they are the ones who receive less protection and help. Not to mention, also... I was talking about the management that the Government of the Generalitat has done, but, if we talk and look at the management of the Government of Spain, it also leaves much to be desired, with that tax increase raised recently and also with the discrimination regarding the last tax rebates announced by Pedro Sánchez. The self-employed have been left out of the reduction of VAT on electricity, gas and the cost, too, of fuels. Thus it is impossible to keep a business afloat, after the pandemic and above now with an inflation that already exceeds two digits – it is in 10,2_per_cent. Well, we, I insist, agree with many of the proposals put forward here. It is true that some have been discussed earlier in this Parliament, but that is why we must not stop insisting, especially because they are not being launched. And, in fact, we, from the People's Party, in this case at the level of the Congress of Deputies, at the national level, have also presented, just this very week, a package of measures that go directly to the self-employed, among which we propose, for example, an extraordinary reduction of the IRPF. I believe that summer is also coming and, therefore, we must apply a tax reduction that is temporary and selective. And, for example, the tax bases of the IRPF could be lowered by using the funds that the State is obtaining from inflation. This year, the government has extraordinarily raised more than €13,200_million in taxes. Therefore, what we propose is to return to the self-employed tax what they are losing in their income. We also propose the contribution for real income. The quotation is clear that it has to be adjusted to what businesses actually earn on an equitable basis. We also propose to modify the recovery and resilience plan – European legislation allows this – so that part of the budget is allocated to the self-employed and these small businesses, through a tax package. For example, with only seven per cent of these funds, EUR 5,000 million could be allocated to enable self-employed people to improve their competitiveness and liquidity by financing their taxes. There was talk of extending European aid, and we are on this line too. Four new direct aid for self-employed people, such as those created to curb the impact of the pandemic, without undue hindrance or red tape. I insist that what we're living here was slick, with a system of help with a collapsed web, where people didn't know where to go and that, when they're done, you won't ask, that there's no more. We also ask for a flat rate of fifty_euros and for thirty_and six months, without age margin, and also to concentrate efforts to work for Spain unpopulated through digitisation plans, which also collects this motion, so that the self-employed have the essential services to develop their activity. In short, as you see, there are proposals, some of which coincide with those of the motion; others which are complementary. And, therefore, we, from the People's Group, are going to vote in full in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.119.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Tonia Batlle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.120.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Small and medium-sized enterprises, Catalans represent more than one quarter of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Spanish State and therefore have an important weight. When we talk about self-employed workers, we talk about some 560,000 people in Catalonia – as has been said – representing sixty-three per cent of GDP and one hundred per cent of our country's employment. Before anything else, let's sit down, that's why, in this environment. It is important to know the reality of what we are talking about: from the problem of the system of quotations, as well as the false autonomes, as was said a moment ago. It is necessary to redefine the autonomous work, to identify its conditions and to adjust the framework of social protection and taxation to the different realities of the collection, with a contribution that is consistent with the real gains of each person, matching the general rule not only in the recaptator aspect, but also in the rights that are generated. It cannot be that the eighty per cent of the autonomes of our country co-titim the minimum. And why do they do that? So why don't they have the tickets by the end of the month, and what they do is they cut the quota. This, therefore, obviously harms them in the future. We are therefore talking about two aspects: economic aid, for one band, and legislation, for another. First of all, I would like to refer to economic aid. As we all know, Catalonia is the autonomous community that has donated more direct aid from the pandemic to this collection. The government has been on the side of the sector with direct aid, aid to compensate for losses in the solvency of businesses, and so it continues to do, as indicated this very week, with the programme of employment and transformation aids, with more than 45 million_i_mig destined for self-employed workers, micropimes and cooperatives. Of course, economic aid will never be enough. For another gang, we're talking about legislation. We find ourselves with tax standards that do not allow many to charge as the expense of all the activities they produce, and therefore the theoretical gain is superior to the real. Protection, therefore, must be equivalent to that of self-employed workers, to that of the general social security system with regard to benefits, adhering, however, to the circumstances of each self-employed person. Right now, for this reason, we need to base ourselves on a question, which I heard you name a few days ago in this faristol, but it is the law of self-government that is currently working in the Spanish State. And from here on out, what we have to do is try to fight there, as we do from our parliamentary group, because the Catalan model of autonomes is also defended to state law in order to adapt it. A very specific autonomous model in Catalonia, based on the economic management of the company and also in production. To tell you, the lords of VOX, that... you are concerned about the Catalan autonomes; so I will tell you that we are concerned, yes, but we are concerned about another aspect, that is the re-centralisation of the Spanish State, to the detriment of Catalonia and the butxaca of all the citizens of Catalonia. And I'll repeat them: all of us, not just a few, as you say we're the only one we're defending. Reading your young lady's tips, I'll tell her we're complaining where we need to complain. We are doing this, as I said, with our parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies, but we are also calling, as they say to the House, for the European foundations, for the problem of energy. But we also claim that you do not claim, which is therefore the fictitiousness of the fiscal policy, the fictitiousness of the policy to investment in infrastructure. I suppose this morning they were able to listen to Mr Canadell's deputy, and I don't think I repeated it to them, because they all well said it here to the Faristol. You only know how to ask to protect Catalans from independence parties. Therefore, do not let me tell you – nor do I tell you anything, anything new – that we will vote against this young man. As a final summary, I will tell you that, from Juntes to Catalunya, we reaffirm our commitment to continue working for this country for the future and for the future. We know that self-employed workers are very important among our country's economic fabric and product. And we are clear, therefore, that we need to talk about the fiscal framework and social protection, guaranteeing, for one band, its economic activity and its social protection, distinguishing, above all, the different realities of each of these workers. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.121.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.122.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... VOX brings us to the chamber another young man to try to whitewash, in short, his political action as an ultradreta. There are two types of speeches to VOX: the speech of hatred or the neoliberal speech. And, from time to time, to store as many escorts are on the right, especially in the economic sphere, his speech to hate the habit of wearing a varnish of workmanship. A varnish that endures little, well little, because, when they have to sort between defending the worker or defending privilege, VOX always sorts to defend privilege. And we understand, don't we? At the top and bottom, the privileges they defend are theirs, that of the upper class, that of the state's attorney, that of the estate manager, that of those who cannot be beyond the real concerns of the common people. And today they show their hypocrisy – because it must be defined thus, their hypocrisy – and they come here – unfortunately, we have very few competitions – with a set of twenty proposals about self-governments – and twenty proposals about self-governments. But when it comes to extending the help of the autonomes and the ERTOs in the middle of the room, you were the only ones who voted against it. When it came to approving a public pension fund for self-employed workers, they allyed themselves with their parent party, the People's Party, to vote against it. That's why hypocrisy is supposed to happen. Mirin, unlike you, the government is on the side of the workers and the self-employed. We'd like to have more resources and more skills. We would already have liked to have had competence over the quota of autonomes for not having collected it in full pandemic, as the State did. We would already like to be able to push forward a pro-progress-based quota model, that the different trams are adopted, are effective and redistributed, and that they do not harm the self-employed people who have fewer tickets, to enable an increase in the rights that are attached to the equipping of the foreign account workers. We don't have the competence to do this, and that has to be made clear. But we've squeezed at the most the skills and resources we had. We remind them that the Government of the Generalitat is the most direct help to mobilize in front of the covid. The government mobilized more than €804 million, with more than 578,000 beneficiaries. There have been, ladies and gentlemen, a total of four calls: on 2 April 2020, with EUR 7.5_million; on 4 November 2020, with EUR 20_million; on 14 December 2020, with EUR 258_million; on 19 March 2021, with EUR 374_million. And there has been this effort that has helped reverse the situation of self-employed people, the Generality's effort with active employment and entrepreneurship policies, and the Consortium for Catalan Training with mixed orientation or training programmes, and formal vocational training programmes. Or what the Directorate-General for Labour Relations, Self-Employment and Safety and Health at Work does, with grants to promote self-occupation, with the 20-21 Act, with the "Consolidated" program, with the "And You More" program. The public intervention, ladies and gentlemen, which makes so much praise to some part of the bench, has helped this country not to let anyone go back during the pandemic, decisive in order to guarantee the exit of the crisis, that no one is left behind, and, above all, decisive in trying to start transforming the product model that we want the most resilient. What we will not do is whitewash the extreme right, which always acts against the interests of the most vulnerable, when it does not want to disguise the economic and political agenda as harmful and antisocial. And, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this motion. Mr Gallego – and allow'm, president, in short fall time – to keep you. After keeping them there are no mafias; after keeping them there is only an administrative irregularity that forces them to fall into the street sale. Remember: what do you think she's dedicated to or was forced to devote a lot of Spanish immigration that came to this country during the period of the autorquia? Irregularly sold. Maybe they've got some family who's dedicated themselves to it. But I don't think so, because you are the sons of the bourgeoisie who forced them to flee and come to this country to make it bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.123.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.124.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Well, more than answering amendments, I'll try to answer the set of insults, basically insults, won't I? I think I've been absolutely respectful, I didn't mess with anyone at all, huh? Insults – insults – these are their arguments. Little girl will have her speech about autonomous when what they come to do is insult. The last congressman you've talked about, isn't he? , he says: "Well, the top manta..., which he likes. All right. We're with traders who pay taxes, rents and don't sell counterfeits. Well, anyway, everyone's where they are. He says: "We have worked..., because no one is left behind. They've done great, huh? That's great. Poverty rate Arope in historical peaks. You're a freak, you're doing great. That's weird, isn't it? « Because no one stayed back. And we're at maximum poverty rates. I don't know what his name is. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, indeed. Well, it doesn't surprise me that he's not much to walk around and doesn't talk much around here. It was the first time I saw him. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's out...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.125.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.126.0	... he's babbled a bit, he hasn't spoken at all about the self-governing. He told us we're not ashamed. For here the insults only bother when they go from here to there; when they go from here to here, then the insults are very justified. You said we have no shame. You, the representative of the party that's going to put some hacks on the absolutely awesome self-sustaining. You say we have no shame. What I really liked was the reference to Springsteen, which I do recognize. And I also return it to him with a personal reference: « Silly is the one who says nonsense, by Forrest Gump. What does that sound like, Congressman? [[Rialles and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.127.0	Once again, I'm forced to remember what the code of conduct is. And disrespect between companies is something that is not allowed in this Parliament, Mr. Deputy. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the chronic disinvestment of the State into Catalonia]] [[302-00165/13]] The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place once the next item on the order of the day is over, the next question to the government about the chronic disinvestment in the State of Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.128.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, we all know that, don't we? the motions are useful, above all, to ascertain the respective positions and the vote of each group in relation to one or other question. In this case, the question is very clear, it is very clear: what does each group think and what votes on the fact that Catalan citizenship – its entrepreneurs, workers, workers, women and men of all conditions, young and old – cannot have the public benefits that they have right and that they certainly believe to see materialized. It's not a rhetorical question; it's not a question of administrative efficiency or technical competence either, and it's still less of a complaint that Esquerra raises because the political agreements that the Socialist Group reached at the Congress and the Senate have not been completed. It's a question of concept. What do you mean by that? What does institutional responsibility mean? The data are demolishing and the facts are clear. We haven't talked so much these days that I don't know if I can add more. We've told each other everything. This morning with the intervention of the deputy Jordi Orobtig, on behalf of our group, I think it has remained clear and well said. It is now, therefore, with this motion, that it consists in minutes, black on white – dates, reasons, rights and proposals. That each group tell the citizenry if it respects its right and is willing to work to enforce it if it considers that it has been violated, as we consider. This is why, in this case, we denounce discrimination, we see the negative impact on the Catalan economy and society, we identify the special gravity of Renfe and Adif's capture, we propose immediate repair lives and we define the 14-21 compensation fund. We do not speak in this motion – it does not touch now, it always touches, it does not touch now – of fiscal deficit or of judicial offensive against the Catalan tax system or the strategy of fiscal dumping in Madrid; we speak of what should never be object of debate, we simply speak of the most basic and elementary institutional loyalty, the loyalty required in respect of the parliamentary agreements, in this case, to the law of assumptions of 2021. But, by extension and repetition, to the presuppositions of the last, at least, fifteen years. There is a general pattern, a motelle as consolidated as it denies in its meaning, which is confirmed every year. The government of the nation of every moment, follow the color that follows, sends us every year – and this year, Socialists, very clearly – a message that Eduardo Marquina could make his own. Says: "The state and I are like this, ma'am. If they like it, well, and if they don't, they hang on. That's what they tell us every year. It is an exhibition of institutional deprivation that includes a terrible message to the citizenry: "It is normal that agreements are not complete. Formal commitments have no value. Presuppositional laws do not imply any enforcement. The policy and action of representatives and political leaders do not deserve much respect or consideration. Anyway, this is the message you send us. Let us set some example. How can we bet on sustainable mobility when Esquerra succeeds in its negotiation with the Government, with the groups of the Congress, a historic game to boost the train to Catalonia, the rolling stock, and Adif, Renfe runs the dinosaur_per_cent? Not the thirty-seven general, but the dinosaur_per_cent. And about his answer is of a paternalism as well known as useless, and they come here to explain to us the bounds of the rudders conceived in the 20th century and that they no longer have any territorial consensus and ask for an explicit and new approach. And yet it is less permissible for us to come up with data tortured on the Next Generation fund and its execution. How do I compare the annual budgetary implementation with the management of European funds without defining annual terms and with a procedure which has been taken, controlled and decided by the central administration itself? Do we need repair? Yeah. It's not a negotiation anymore to add to the infinite list. It is a question of dignity and respect for ourselves. I want to say to us about 8 million Catalans and Catalans who look at a barrage of abhorrence and outrage at the mistreatment of them by the government of the nation. This is why we are putting in place the two central measures, which we believe are both reasonable and enforceable, institutionally and competitively: the transfer of rolling stock with associated financing, the definition of the presumptive and non-executed import, to require it to be carried out with the creation of a compensation fund, a 14-21 fund, with the hope, if we remember it well, and if we are loyal to ourselves, of what was already contained in the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy. So, we are every time more convinced, more charged with reason. That given still carries the most. We are convinced that the only way is to exercise the right to decide, and we seem to be more convinced than ever. We let them sort, they can sort: the Scottish way or the Quebec way, which they like the most. We'll follow ours, the Catalan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.129.0	It has the word, in the defense tower of the presented papers, the deputy of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.130.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Maragall, you bring us the motion that follows that of Junts per Catalunya, that of Mr Canadell, in certainly more rational terms, certainly more civic. But, in any case, with a message, in my opinion, equally solvent. It is a message based, I insist, on arguments absolutely..., well, based on profound distortions, distortions of history, which certainly do not favor the quality of public debate at all. The first great distortion of history and the first great lie of this motion appears in the first point. Mr Maragall, I believe that we must finally undo a mischief: the Catalan countries do not exist, an exemption from the Members – there is no such thing as the Catalan countries. I really do want you to continue talking about an entelechia, a utopia that you have created in your dreams more, let's say, fervent, because it seems to me, at least, questionable, not to say laughable. Moreover, I believe that continuing to speak in victimistic terms of the reality of the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain does not lead to a good outcome. In the end, one can talk about the relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, one can talk about the investment of the central government, the investment of the general government of the state in the different autonomous communities, but let us talk, as Mr Canadell said before, also about the execution of the Generalitat in Catalonia itself, and let us try to ensure that all public administrations commit themselves to the implementation of what they have promised in the general budgets of the state or in the autonomous budgets. But let me tell you, Mr Maragall, that it is, at least, curious, not to say surrealist, that precisely those who prevent certain works from being carried out, such as that of the B-40 to unite Terrassa, Sabadell and Castellar del Vallès..., which are you, in particular your party, Esquerra Republicana..., you prevent the central government from carrying out those works, and it turns out that you still criticize the central government for not carrying out those works. Wow, that sounds like the real pyromaniac fireman's effigies. Moreover, you prevent the extension of Prat Airport when there was already an allocation by the Spanish Government to carry out this extension. And once again, you and your parliamentary partners, in particular the CUP, are preventing a work that is essential for the citizens of Catalonia as a whole. And it's a no stop, I could give you hundreds of examples. The lack of budgetary execution in Catalonia is also the responsibility of the Government of Spain, but it is primarily the responsibility of those who, by doing irresponsible politics, victimism, constant melancholy, still want to be talking, I insist, about entelequias that have nothing to do with the palpable reality that we all live with the citizens of Catalonia. And by the death of those entelequias we are suffering the Catalans an existence, no doubt, far less comfortable than what we would have if you were to govern, which is what this is all about. You would have to rule and stop victimizing, stop talking about systematic persecution, centuries of persecution and tax evasion, as you do in several of your motions, and very specifically in this motion. Sincerely, Mr.Maragall, the movement is shown to be moving, and you do what you do is to paralyse and silence each and every one of the works and projects that are important to our community. Catalonia needs you immediately to recognize that its years of attempt at separation, what has been called the process, which is certainly a term that I think should fall more and more into disuse, because it is a real failure for Catalan society... I think you would have to do is to acknowledge that this so-called process has given rise to a lost decade of public infrastructure, because of the bad relations that you have created, have provoked with the successive governments of Spain, because of the lack of confidence that you awaken in the rest of the Spanish public administrations and in the rest of the world. In this sense, the truth is that we regret, from our parliamentary group, that Catalonia continues to lose opportunities for its obsession, continues to lose opportunities for its cerrility and its lack of capacity to reach agreements with other autonomous communities, as we have recently seen with the Olympic Games and the community of Aragon. That is why I tell you, Mr Maragall, to stop making the victims, to stop..., to stop making the crying, to say in català..., and to put themselves to work once and for all for all the citizens of Catalonia. Its attitude is eventually finally tearing down Catalonia's economy and progress. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.131.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, and to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.132.0	Thank you, President. I can't say hello to the government because there's no councillor. Is it necessary to increase resources, Mr Maragall? Totally fine. We were able to lead and work for a new funding model; he gave them this morning. Does it need to increase the cost of infrastructure? Totally fine. Now, less rhetoric, less speeches, sometimes as we listen in this Parliament, to the nebulae, because many times not just you, the joint administration is lost in these debates that do not carry place. And I would advise more pragmatism. You, who have an extensive experience of government, know that, without executed projects, you cannot bid, you cannot award and you cannot execute the investment; it is a problem that affects all administrations, to which you give support at these times, too. Possibly, with a little higher percentages than the General Administration of the State, but not to pull together – not to pull together – if we look at the series we have to look at when we talk about infrastructure policies. I told Mr. Canadell this morning to his young lady. Clearly, if we look at the degree of recognizable obligations in the matter of infrastructure, Chapter VI, of the presuppositional execution of encany, we will find ourselves surprised, after the criticism made by Vice President Puignero two days ago, that the execution is an 11,3_per_cent. And if we're talking railway structures, 15,4_per_cent. Data from your government's Economics Board, from the government you give support to. And it's true, it's beautiful those Administration data that provide the most resources; in this case, the State Administration. Enguany, presuppositions of reversal – no execution, presuppositions of reversal –, the Government of Spain, round numbers: 3,000_million. Government of the Generalitat, assumption of infrastructural investments: 800_million. And then we can do... at the time of claiming the debt, the deficits, the unexecuted parties, we can see some cheats that you do when you make the numbers, huh? They calculate, calculate to the State that the estoc in infrastructure should be similar to the European countries, which fix it in a 2, 2,2_per_cent of the gross domestic product, and there are some figures there. I, from here, to complain. And when we look at the generality's assumptions to see if they complete what they claim from the others, we find that what you have in your assumptions in the matter of infrastructure is a 0.7_per_cent. Do not complain to others that you do not apply. You have detected – and we too – that we have obvious shortcomings in the railway system that you serve in Catalonia, especially with rollers. In all the interventions I make from this Faristol, when I talk about this topic, I say: "I only come to give an answer to what the Spanish Government is doing today from June 2018 until now, in conjunction, eh? You criticized me – at least it seemed to me to listen to you – a plate of rollers and which, moreover, have not reversed or executed what was being compromised. Miri, since the year 2020... I will only give him three figures, which I believe will clearly exemplify the commitment of the Socialists and the Government of Spain with the needs of the country. This plan, which is a five-year plan– 6,300_millions, is true –, today there have been 550_millions already executed, 1,285_millions of this plan have been auctioned and 1,953_millions of euros have already been awarded. Therefore, a clear commitment of the Government of Spain to solve the col d'ampolla that we have with the investments in Catalonia. I'm going back to recommend more pragmatism and lower it from the nebula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.133.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.134.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I want to start this intervention, therefore, recognizing and giving reason to those who say that it is not serious that the government of the PSOE and Podemos only invested in Catalonia last year 739 of the 2,068_million initially recorded. This is obvious. It cannot be said that this is precisely good management. It is obvious that Pedro Sánchez has laughed at you, that you have given him budgetary support, and he has taken you back. Anyway, this is it, you can't argue. The gentlemen of Esquerra will know how much they accept this degree of masochism and how much they want to endure in Moncloa a self-centered president who does not tell the truth or the doctor. This is a very personal matter; in matters of couple I don't want to get involved, and less if there are phone taps in between. Frankly, you guys will get along. What I can talk about and what is seen in this motion is that it is an ode to the lie and it is a forgery set of hoaxes to continue to behave like complainers. In line. Some considerations. One, you know perfectly well that, by its very nature, the analysis of investment data requires a vision of more than a year, as Mr Giró even acknowledged yesterday. But, according to the IGAE itself – which is the source you welcome to complain about this low execution – in the last seven years, from 15 to 21, Catalonia has been the region of Spain that has received the most investment. That's why they don't use that data; that's why they're only hosting the last year, where, in fact – and I give you the reason – there has been a low budget execution. But if you take the whole of the last seven years, you can't say the same thing. That is why you welcome the last data, which goes well to keep your tearful discourse, the classic, the separatist. It is therefore false that there is permanent, systematic and structural discrimination against Catalonia, as they say in the text of the motion. It is worth remembering – they never include it either in their fiscal balances – that the Kingdom of Spain has left 60,000_million_euros to the Generalitat so that it does not have to close the chiringuito, because this is broken, if it were not for aid via FLA – those 60,000_million_euros – an issue that they never incorporate in the fiscal balances. They also forget Airef's report, which sometimes also use it. Counselor Giró did it yesterday. The report called « Transport Infrastructures 85/2018 says Catalonia has been the region that has received the most nominal gross investment from Spain, with 15.8; also in terms of average investment per inhabitant. It is therefore false that there is permanent, systematic and structural discrimination. The only permanent, systematic and structural discrimination is that you practice with Catalans – you with Catalans. Three. He says: "Man, those who least execute investments are taught lessons. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] Look, March 21, a role that Mr Aragonès did – he was an Economics Advisor –: « Generalities of Catalonia expenses. Period 2003-2020. He publishes it, the 21st, updated. [[The timer shows some graphs to the chamber.]] Look how budget implementation falls. It is you who do not execute, and come here to give lessons to all others when it is you who do not execute, precisely, the investment in the Generalitat of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]] They're talking about historical debt. Perfect. They're talking about historical debt. What about the one you have with the city halls? Not that one. We don't care about that one. We are interested in claiming money, a fictitious or imagined money, or that has not even been told to Madrid. But, with the municipalities, directly, he says: "Nothing is owed to the municipalities. Well, some of us think we do – some of us think we do. He says: "With us there would be better investment in infrastructure. Yeah, yeah. Just look at the infrastructure you've invested in, how much you've invested in the subway. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And there hasn't been any budget deviations, has there? And the brutal investments that have been made in railways, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But how can you present yourself here as a guarantee of a better investment? European funds; implementation: nine_per_cent, obligations. Current budget execution of the investments of the Generalitat : twelve_per_cent. Twelve! And do they give lessons in budget implementation? I am not going to use the words I heard before 'you have no shame, because it seems to me unrighteous, but, man, a little coherence, at least; less cynicism, less lessons, gentlemen, and more if you have rejected the airport, the B-40 and so many other projects. So, man, a little bit of coherence. I would like some medium of communication to talk about that one day too, the budget implementation of the Generalitat. Unfortunately, they never talk about it. I suppose the subsidies you give them, which amount to almost 40_million a year, do their effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.135.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word, then, the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.136.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. So, well, we've looked at the motion and, certainly, we share the vast majority of the content of the motion and we agree very much on all the points that are presented. For what it does at the first point, unlike VOX, which says that it is totally false what is said, in change, we believe that it is a truth like a temple, what is said, that it is that the Parliament finds that there has been a complaint, there has been a permanent and systematic discrimination of Catalonia and the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. And we reinforce this from the Catalan countries because we like it very much that, at the time of making the motion, you have taken into account the Catalan countries mark, because we understand that this Catalan countries mark, precisely, is very interesting to take into account when we are talking about infrastructure. For what it does in the second point, which is considered especially difficult the inability to execute the investments presupposed for Renfe and Adif, essential for facing the climate emergency and giving out to the working class of this country, therefore, obviously, this we also share very much. Today we find ourselves with the execution of a rolling stock through a rolling stock office that is here, next to the station of France, which is the branch of the address of the Secretary of State of Infrastructures, and from there it followed the bidding, the contests, the reports, the constructions. We understand that where we'd be in good hands would be in the hands of the Generality. We've already seen what happened to the 2008 roll plan, which was a real disaster, where there was an absolutely astronomical number of millions, and at the time of truth, it didn't do much about it. And we're a little concerned, because precisely this set of wheelhouses fixed a few times, some temporalities that go, or, to immediate actions and after actions from 2026 to 2030. For us we cannot afford the luxury of being in terms of 2026 to 2030, in which this office of wheelhouses, protected by the Secretary of Mobility Infrastructures, therefore, is still in the hands of the Government and not in the hands of the Generality. Yes, it is true that the Generalitat also has things to do, because the Generalitat can build railways, railways and, unfortunately, it has not done so. And if we have to wait for what you're planning on this road map, then we see that you've only planned one hundred and twenty miles of our tracks, right? On the trains. Therefore, the figures are irritating, and with all that we see from the scenes we cannot face to give out to the need this we have of public transport collection. In any case, what we need urgently is Renfe a Adif, Adif a Renfe..., because it's all the same, the thing that happens, you never know what decides one and what decides the other, but we remember that both are public enterprises of the Spanish State. What we want is for you to do the favor of putting in operation the one-hundred-and-a-nine trains that you've already done, that you've done the Alstom factory and put them in circulation. And that's what they're doing, please don't condition it to the proper signature mark, because we already support deficiencies in years and bread infrastructures so that they're on top of it now provided that we're operating trains to the fact that a new mark is signed. Why is it, why does the new contract have to be awarded to Renfe? Maybe the execution and the service will be donated to another us, to a Catalan public enterprise, for example. We also want to highlight the point of motion number 4, where it is said that the lack of railway execution cannot be conditioned to new road infrastructures. We understand, we read that the Republican Left, at this point in the youth, is clearly and diaphanous not to the Fourth Belt. And what we're asking you, please, is that they convince their governing partners because they're also doing the favor of pulling this Fourth Belt project out of the paper, which, as we would recall, is a project that was conceived thirty years ago and that today doesn't have any kind of meaning. For what it does at the fifth point, regarding this need that the Ministry of Transport executed during 2022 and at the length of 2023 a whole series of assumptions, we would like to remember that a few months ago the CUP carried to vote a motion also related to the infrastructures that was approved and where there was a compromise to take the service as by 30 September 2020. So we can't wait until 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.137.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.138.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're being presented with a motion about the state's investment deficit with Catalonia, a motion that has eight points. I would say that half are making a diagnosis of the situation, a finding of evidence, I would say, that obviously our parliamentary group would not have written in the same way, but that, in any case, we share, and that is why we would vote in favour of all these points. Also, and especially, the point in which they show that this reversal deficit cannot be offset by promises of obsolete road infrastructure like the Fourth Belt. And, please – and this goes for both governments – invest once in a railroad at the country's side. Deficiencies are enormous, and opportunities, in change, are groaning. It is clear that the presuppositional levels of the State in Catalonia are completely unacceptable. Not only in Catalonia, with the thirty-five per cent execution, but at the conjunction of the Catalan Countries; in Valencia, a forty-two per cent. It is also obvious that this is a structural and systemic situation, and that it has occurred with different governments, as long as the Ministry of Development was in the hands of the People's Party as when the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda is in the hands of the PSOE. Now, we have another problem, too, huh? Yesterday I heard the question of the deputy Terrades, who we will have time to discuss the coming week, but it was clear that the priority of the PSC, like that of Junts for Catalonia, are the infrastructures of the past, is the B-40, is the variety of the Presses, etcetera. Therefore, we remain clear with the infrastructure; the disinversion band – certainly, the disinversion of both the State and the Generality – we have a model problem. The percentage of execution of PP and PSOE is similar– of assumptions–, that is true. But the Junts infrastructure model for Catalonia and the PSC is also the same model. So these are the things. And this model already tells us that it's not making Catalonia a country of trains, which is what we defend. In any case, before these presuppositional implementation data, what we believe is not valid and intolerable are statements like that of Minister Raquel Sánchez the other day. And there is no comparison to Madrid, nor to Castella - la Manxa, nor to Aragó. Simply, when the percentage of execution of a presumption is thirty-five_per_cent, you have a problem, so the government is. And when there's a hot problem – hot problem – let's solve it. In this sense, we understand that the group proposing, with this young man, is also proposing some solutions, and we believe that this is to please and, in fact, we want to put it in value. Some of these proposals we do not share; others, many of them, yes, and we certainly find that some of them are missing. But I'd like to focus on the solution line. Let us resolve that, in our view, they require both parts of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain and, therefore, the two governments. Let's map four lines of solution. First, win sovereignty. We agree that we will take better decisions and respond better to the problems of the people from nearby and from Catalonia. The second, a new funding model, because if we pass rollers and other services, we'll finally have to pay for it, that's what. And so when we want to invest, we need resources, and to have more resources is obvious than what we need is a new funding system. Without a new model of financing, we will not be able to make those investments that the railway system needs, both those that today depend on the State as those that today also depend on Catalonia, as are, for example, all the tram train projects that we are planting. Third line of solution: mechanisms of coordination and collaboration in general, but mechanisms of collaboration and coordination between governments. We have set up a monitoring and monitoring office for the implementation of infrastructure investments with the participation of the State, the Generality and local administrations, and with mechanisms for the participation of economic and social agents. We believe that these lines of collaboration can be the lives of solutions. But also alliances with other territories. We said it before: if the territories that suffer from this low degree of presuppositional execution and disinvestment in infrastructure are at the side of the Catalan countries, why don't we alienate ourselves with the Valencian country, with the Balearic Islands for, together, seeking solutions and also for financing mechanisms for these territories? We believe that here too there is a way of working that can be explored. The last line of solution: do, run from here and there. And here it is true that we see that the 20-30 roll plan in the next few years has to bring solutions, and that a lot of works are being proposed that in the next few years have to see as the thing changes. We also want the Government of the Generalitat to start investing in railway infrastructure once in a while, which is a lot of years ago... in fact, I would say it never happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.139.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.140.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I think this is a motion that goes a little bit in the same terms as the one we have already discussed this morning, which the Junts Group had tabled. I believe that we are living in this legislature a phenomenon that I have criticized many times from this rostrum, but that I see that this continues. I mean, not only do you question yourselves, which, well, I had not seen in other legislatures – perhaps interpellations, yes –..., but already present motion to themselves..., a little strange. But with this you have gone a step further, you have gone up a step: not only do you already question each other, but that is that, in addition, you use the interpellations and motions to continue with that internal pulse that you have among the governing partners, eh? , with puyas already and routings included, as we have seen this morning, that to me, honestly, it has seemed rather lame, I don't know. A few weeks ago we knew that the Department of Presidency had hired a mediator to try to smooth roughness between the groups; for I believe it is clear that couples' therapy is not working, and these motions are proof of that. They would do well to agree, at the very least; as they question themselves, at the very least to agree among the partners of government. We voted against the other motion this morning. It is true that this is a little more concrete the points, but you continue with the same victimistic story of always: you speak of permanent discrimination, you speak again of that ghost entity that you have invented of the Catalan Countries, systematic discrimination of the State... Well, you should also see, for example, the discrimination that exists between territories in Catalonia ; you should also see what you do with the budget that you do not execute. Because it is true that there is a lack of implementation of the budgets, not only of this last government, but we also recognize that of the previous ones, but that you do not remain short: the average of the lack of implementation of the budget of the Generalitat is twenty-four_per_cent. So, that money, where is it going? Where do you spend it? That money, do you give it back, as you are asking the state? You, in this motion, ask, for example, for a compensation fund to be made to correct the economic losses of those unimplemented budgets. Okay. With those who don't run the Generalitat, what do we do with that? Are you also going to create a compensation fund of these characteristics or not? Or advice I sell, but I don't have it for me? Because you're a lot of this, of draining your own lump while you're giving lessons to others. Of course, as I say to you, we voted against this morning, and we are not going to give cover to these kinds of motions, which, I insist, make no sense at all. You can negotiate perfectly with your partners; you have been preferred partners in the budgets, in the last budgets of the government of Pedro Sánchez. And, if Mr. Sánchez doesn't comply with the agreement, you go there and complain, but don't come here and let go of the usual roll again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.141.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.142.0	Thank you very much, President. I wish you a quick improvement in your constipation. Deputies, deputies... Well, today Republican Left presents us a motion on the non-execution or under-execution of the public work of the State in Catalonia, which we share in all its points. This debate today originated from a scandal produced a few weeks ago, when, from the publication that made data from the Madrid Ministry of Economics of the investment carried out in the territories, we discovered..., and we had a little light in the dark. That is to say, the inversion actually realized not presupposed to Catalonia had been of the thirty-five_per_cent of what had been predicted; in change, in Madrid, of the 184_per_cent. Therefore, there was a social, media, trade union scandal, let's say, because the age-old discrimination in this sense is accelerating. Two years ago, the Airef, which is an organization of the Spanish State, not of the Generality, also published a report of rolls– that they find to the internet easily –: from the year 90 to 2018, the Community of Madrid, which represents only the u percent of the surface of the State, covered fifty_per_cent in thirty years of all the state investment in rolls. For example, another data: since the year 91, in Madrid there have been built eighty kilometers and divided stations, and in Catalonia, zero kilometers. Clearly, then, sometimes, from the right, it is said: "This is a very effective campaign of separatism. No, the data are published from ministries and from the Spanish state. And public investment is a small part of the fiscal balance sheet that hasn't been published for many years. And in this sense, therefore, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, this morning you said a part of the truth: effectively, taxes are paid by individuals, physical and legal, but investments are fan in the territories. Madrid: eighty kilometres of rolling stock, divided into nine stations; Catalonia: zero. And this is an objective fact, whether we like it or not – here we have different opinions – but that every time more and more Catalans are realizing, seeing, that there is a mistreatment. I remember in 2005 a debate with Ángel de la Fuente, an Asturian economist, when the State debate and fiscal balances began. And he publicly acknowledged: "The State... If fiscal balances are not published – and with this we agreed –, "the State will lose the debate by incomparence. A phrase I remember perfectly. February 14, 2021, fifty-two percent. And this is a date that didn't exist in 2005. And, in this sense, it's interesting what we have here in our hands. I don't know if you've thought to what extent the perception of economic discrimination has moved independence. States Units increased the tax on tea and produced the declaration of independence, through a war. There was no sense in London that they were misusing their colonies, and there they spoke the same language, but it was the drop that made the vessel wear. And, in this sense, I don't know what will happen in the future – I don't know what will happen in the future – but this is a fact. Labour Promotion, for example, has published very strong reports on this issue, as has Labour Development more than a hundred years ago called for the economic concert for Catalonia. You may illegalise the President of Parliament. You can illegalize political parties, as you will. You can illegalize a growing majority of Catalans, but the objective cause of tax abuse and investor you are not correcting, so there are some efforts and there is a certain willingness, recognition, which is a fan of the Spanish Government. I won't deny that. Now there's a new general manager, who's coming from the generality, who's trying to do everything he can. But do you know what's going on? The Earl of Romanes said to him l'any 1916: "You make the law, that I will make the regulation. And once the law is done, there are some others that will work that are very diligent in accelerating the work in some regions, and the tunnel of Vallirana triga twenty years to make two kilometers. And this is an objective fact, which may or may not please us, but that more and more Catalans have the perception that this was so. And, therefore,... By the way, the year 1916 the Regionalist League, as the Spanish government does not comply with its commitments to Catalonia, systematically blocked all of Mr. Romanes' bills. I say..., Republican Left, I give you an idea, more than anything because, if we're not happy with the progress... I mean, President Aragones can't ask for the microxip, the microxip loss, or the Winter Games Councillor Vilagrà, that I agree very much. First, what needs to be done is to condition the vote. First of all, what you have to do in Madrid is condition the approval... I'm sorry, I got an embolism in these last seconds. [[Rialles.]] I'll tell you. What you have to do is: "First, Mr. Sánchez, complete with the Games and pass the PAST; then you will have our votes, and not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.143.0	So, finally, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.144.0	Thank you, President. The advice of Mr. Tremosa is always worthy of consideration, even though it is not always necessary to follow the little of the letter. See, today we've only had one item. And I appreciate the Ciutadans Group presenting papers, because at least it explains its position. The rest made me comment, some of them very interesting and I can share. Some, obviously, all the contrary, or many. But, in any case, with regard to the emena for parliamentary attention too... What happens is that his emena, Mr. Blanco, is what you say: "You know, that's what they tell us almost always. Well, the fact that you're telling us that you're giving up is, of course, becoming a stigma to the contrary. So that we are growing up, because it seems to us that, in changing, the concept of return more quickly we could consider that it is affecting with a certain consistency and graduality and intensified its political formation. I seem to be in the... I know it's hard, but I don't think we're far from this reality. We, indeed, the Catalan Countries... look at the series. I look at the whole series of the last few years and I look at what's going on. And look what's going on in Valencia, look what's going on in Balears and look what's going on in Catalonia. And not this year, systematically. I'm looking at the series. Now we don't have time to go back to... We cannot be left with a mere display of data, which seems to me to be clear. We know them, they're believed. I don't think... they don't impress us with their statistical constructions. They're official, they're public, they're known. It seems to me that we are... the deviation of the state average from the investments in relation to Catalonia is perfectly enough as the given flattering. We're always god, fifteen, got punched in the underside. And I don't seem to be able to go there anymore. Mr. Terrades, I also appreciate your criteria. I don't know if you advise. But well, it's funny, because he used an expression that I used the other day in relation to his training, but I find it. All right. "You are moving from democratic socialism to state pragmatism. It is its divided, "state pragmatism. All right, all right. Let's take a note. They know where they are. You are more and more in this pragmatic centre, very pragmatic, with an exhibition of pragmatism that obviously contradicts the general interest of this country, of our cities and of Catalonia. So many thanks to all of you for the reflection. We will continue to deepen in the defence, in the claim and in the proposal on the table of concrete reparation lives as we are presenting in this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.145.0	Very well, therefore, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions which we have tabled this late. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into lawsuits as guarantors of the justice service of proximity (continuation)]] [[302-00163/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the lawsuits as guarantors of the justice service of proximity. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 98 points in favour and 33 votes against. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 83 votes in favour, 39 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. The vote begins. And this point was approved with 75 votes in favour, 39 votes against and 18 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into its policy to support workers under the special regime of self-employed workers (continuation)]] [[302-00164/13]] We shall then vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the policy to give support to workers registered under the special regime of self-employed workers. We start by voting points 11, 15 and 16. The vote begins. These points have not been approved with 12 votes in favour and 120 votes against. We vote points 12 and 19. The vote begins. These points have also not been approved with 12 votes in favour, 114 against and 6 abstentions. And we vote for the rest of the points of the vote. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion have also not been approved with 18 votes in favour and 114 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the chronic disinvestment of the State in Catalonia (continuation)]] [[302-00165/13]] And, finally, we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the chronic disinvestment of the State in Catalonia. Did you ask for the word, Mrs. Vinyets?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.146.0	It's just that, I'm sorry, we didn't ask for a separate vote from point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.147.0	From this young man?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.148.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-06-30-3303.149.0	Okay. All right. So we'll vote, first place, point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 73 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were also approved with 81 votes in favour and 51 votes against. We raise the session, and to the six places at the very extraordinary ple. Thank you.
