ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Interview with the Government on the impact of repression on independence and democratic standards in the Spanish State]] [[300-00204/13]] And we do so with the dotze point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the impact of repression on independence and the democratic standards of the Spanish State. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.224.0	In the case of Catalonia, the global reptes, which affect everyone, there are also the reptes that we have as the country, with our own casuísticas, and, in this case, in the way also to want to build a Catalan republic, precisely to be able to decide in the first person and to dispose of all the tools, of all the resources, to deal with these reptes, not only particular, of our country, but also the global reptes, and to make it the front of the better of the manners. And despite the fact that some people are going to believe and see that it's superfluous, the will to want to build a state, in fact, the defense to build this new state is the same struggle for which we defend equal opportunities, to be able to articulate this country justly. It's the same fight to defend the cause of democracy. It's the same fight to defend rights and freedom for everyone. And that is why, Counselor, we are asking him today about this reality, that, about the problems and global challenges we have as a society, so it also affects us as a country, the general repressive cause against those and those of us who are independent. And which continues to impact, this cause, on public policy, and, therefore, prevents us, on a good part of what we are here and others, from doing politics on the minimum conditions, and prevents us from doing the work that we have come to do. How did we get here? Catalonia and the Spanish State live immersed in a long-standing political conflict motivated by the inability of the State to respond to the vast majority of Catalonian citizens, who want to decide our future collectively. There is no conflict between Catalans, as some people repeat. In front of a major political, basic and democratic challenge, the State sorted the repression as the answer. And this is the fact – this is the fact –: before a capital challenge, the State sorted the repression as the answer. It responded authoritatively to the democratic and legitimate demands of independence and a great consensus of our country. And this is a first state error, because when repression is normal, it doesn't end with dissidents, but... the most authoritarian, the most extreme, the ones that end up normalizing. And because when you opt for this democratic involvement, as the State has chosen, it affects everyone, especially the own State, that we are already seeing how you have your reputation touched. Repression is that action exercised from the power to neutralize and eliminate dissent, opposition, through the limitation of public freedoms. And we need to make it clear that what you're looking for is to weaken and weaken and make disappear that you consider adversarial, seeks to divide the movement you want to go against, which you repress. And it does so by presenting the people of this collection – in this case, independence – say that they are the enemy. And it seeks, above all through the mechanisms of stigmatization and dehumanization, to justify this repression. And that's why today from here we want to see this repression, all the people who suffer it; all the people who have names, surnames, lives, families, expectations. No idea of supporting his defense in repression, no matter what. But the reality is that the Spanish State does. And today perhaps the most extreme form of repression, more obvious, political imprisonment, has already vanished, but its threat is not. And now there are thirty-nine causes open to justice. In this supposed right-wing state there are people who need to stay in exile, because, if not, then they're doing business. In this supposed state of law there are fifteen mayors and directors investigated, prosecuted and sentenced. In this supposed state of right there have been twenty-nine persons pending trial in Jutjat 13. There are four persons pending..., to the High Court of Justice – among them, a councillor of this Government; among them, a chair of parliamentary group of this Parliament. In this supposed state of law, external action is pursued at the criminal level, and also with economic repression through the Court of Auditors, in order to scare off people who can devote themselves to politics. In this supposed state of law, the members of the previous Bureau of Parliament went to court – it had to be the coming week, now it has postponed, but... – to allow the debate in this Parliament and that can be talked about at all. The previous table has already been... the previous one has already been condemned, and the current one is already threatened. We have seen deputies who have lost their minutes because of the JEC. We've seen how the right to vote is threatened, too, by MPs in exile, from this chamber. In this supposed right-wing state, more than seven hundred people are accused of participating in mobilizations, among others. A state of right can't stand all this. And only this June have we seen how the European Court of Human Rights condemned the State, when there was the revision of the Civics report, and how there were attempts to infiltrate youth organizations such as the SEPC or the Young Republic. And we came a few months ago to unravel the biggest major scandal against independence, also more there, but which particularly affects independence, the Pegasus case. In any democracy, this would have involved investigation and resignation at the highest level. Can you imagine the scandal, if you discover that the United Kingdom has been spying on the president's phone, Prime Minister Nicola Sturgeon, and has attempted to infiltrate the young girl of the Scottish National Party? That's what happened here, that's what's happening here. In Spain, against independence still goes: lawfare, cocks, hackers and spies. And before this reality, as we always say, doing nothing is not an option. We insist that the outcome of any political conflict is through repression and the construction of a democratic resolution framework for this conflict. And we know that amnesty is the best solution, the best proposal. It's a global solution for all retaliated people. It is the most possible, because it depends on the legislative power and because, therefore, it prevents the vampire courts for the extreme right and the most extreme right from following their own, and because it is defended by a great social consensus. With the pardons, it's not over. The repression is well-established and well-persistent, as we have been going back now. Therefore, this amnesty is more urgent and more necessary than ever. And that amnesty was accompanied by the political solution, from the exercise of the right to self-determination: voting, ballots, like Scotland, and we decide between everyone and everyone we want, the decision for our future in a collective way. In fact, that Spain is a deficit democracy and that it is responsible for repression we do not just call it ourselves, says the report Cilevichs, that we talk about the past plenary, and we also have a seat in this plenary. I want to thank the Republican Senator Laura Castel's pocket for precisely the work she has done, which has caused her to be followed by the State that has to make more passes in anti-repressive matter; that she has to modify criminal Code crimes, such as, for example, the siege or rebellion; that she has to withdraw the Euroorders and that she has to investigate the "Catalangate". Amnesty and self-determination as a solution and taking collective consciousness through an anti-repressive strategy, with solidarity, with anti-repressive solidarity, to denounce and demonstrate that this reality cannot be obviated, that it is more effective than ever in our country; to minimize its effects and to ensure that it does not go beyond what it wants to go through repression, that it is that we divide ourselves, that it is that we disappear, that it is that we abandon or that it is that we weaken – this is what we do not allow to go through, and also to continue finding international alliances and complicity, as we have already succeeded. Counselor, the situation is demolishing. We know that our own days have contacts, meetings... we know that being independent in our country is a risky sport, but we know very clearly what the way is: solutions, amnesty and self-determination, and democratic resolution of the conflict through negotiation. We're going to get the State. We've seen how the repression of the last few days, persisting, incompliments, espionage..., have led us to a situation at a critical point. And, therefore, we believe that it is the generation, the articulation of conditions and guarantees that can get the negotiation process resumed with full force and determination to reach the resolution of this political conflict. The Spanish Government has to decide what it wants: whether it is prepared to generate the necessary conditions to pass through this democratic resolution and to place itself at the level of the European democratic standards– or not, and therefore continues to justify repression; whether it is at the side, the Spanish State, of the rights and freedoms, or of the criminalization of independence. Therefore, you have to decide whether you want to do something different or do PP and VOX. We'll never leave this way. It's our flag, the way of negotiation. And, meanwhile, the articulation of solidarity and anti-repressive strategy [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , who know – I finish, president – that he wants to annihilate us, this repression. And what we know is that we have to work together just to strengthen ourselves, not to make the game of this repression, just to strengthen ourselves; not to expose companies, but by, with collective intelligence, to make passes that allow us to win and be stronger, at every pass. We also know that it is part of the way to fight against the repression of the State, which we know that it wants to divide us. But we can't be wrong about adversaries. We're very clear. We know what the path is. They know who the tools are. And that's why we want to share all these thoughts and that you, too, can explain to us who are the way and the understanding from your advice and from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.2.0	The word has the adviser of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.3.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Congresswoman... Well, you said, pointed out, the Spanish State wants to play in the first international division, but it tries to homologate itself to the standards of other democratic and right-wing states, and this is incompatible with maintaining the criminalization of the independence project and deafening the recommendations of international bodies on urgent reforms to institutions. I have read the report by Mr Cilevics and his recommendations, approved in resolution by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In the eyes of the world, he put some important deures, some recommendations, and in his majority, for the time being, they have become obvious. The reform of the crime of sedition and rebellion, which did not stop Europe and which, moreover, has been applied in a muddy way in the Catalan case. The pardons to political prisoners and value the possibility of leaving behind the extradition procedures interposed against Catalan policies that, at these times, therefore, as everyone knows, are alienating it. The part of the indults, of course, has been done, but it's not left. And, in any case, the pardons have been partially made – also..., explain it. It also explained this report that the remaining cases against lower organizational categories had to be withdrawn, and this, obviously, has not yet occurred. He also talked about ensuring that the criminal provision on misappropriation of public funds applies so that responsibility arises only when real and quantifiable losses can be found for the presumption or for the assets of the State. He also demanded that the Catalan policies which complement him should not be called upon to condemn him from reneging on his deep political convictions to change from a more favourable prison regime or the possibility of indults. He was also talking about negotiation, and he said that it had to be done in terms of depth, intensity and honesty, and, in any case, until now he found that it had not been produced. Or he was talking about applying these recommendations in accordance with the principles of the right state defined by the Council of Europe, and, in particular, with respect for the principle of equality of all and all citizens before the law. In any case, the follow-up of this report was done by the Greuges Synod; also the Department of Justice of the Generality, which also ended the Government, obviously, with a report. The Council of Europe has also done so, and it is already pointed out that there are various criminal cases pending against charges or charges in Catalonia, with particular reference to persons in exile, and considers it very worrying that the pardons, at these times, are subject to review by the Supreme Court, but also that there are pending revisions, therefore, of the crime of siege or rebellion. In this band, these past few weeks, months, we have seen that repression does not stop and that we accumulate facts, let us say, that at these times it is impossible to negotiate in the terms that had occurred until that moment. They don't give, therefore, the minimum conditions and confidence in a state that at these times... trust is subminimal. As we say, as you said yourself, cyber espionage practices with Pegasus, which aim against the rights and political freedoms and which affect, among others, the own presidents of the Generality or drawings of people of the independence movement. The Generality's counsel's pending judges, and I also want to highlight particularly Councillor Torrent, who is part of the negotiating table. Things that weigh on everyone and all the threats of disqualification, but in fact, they are things that try to limit our freedom of expression and our most essential political rights. Also remember mayors, mayors and other representatives of the local world pending judicial situation as well. A few days ago we remembered a year of pardons, of the arrival of pardons, some pardons that were certainly taken from the prison company and our unjustly closed company, but that did not give total freedom to these people. Let us not forget that the pardons are partial, conditional and verifiable. Nor do they solve the repression of exiled people, who cannot climb Catalonia at these times. And there are still hundreds of cases against compañeros and compañeros of the independence world who can take them to prison, as he said. A repression that, in fact, is not just individual, it is also collective. And we see it in cases of attacks on the language by the courts or their own model of education; all social laws fell also for these courts, laws that favor the citizenship of Catalonia and that some of us have not been able to pull them forward. But in any case, and on the català, also remember or reschedule..., and let me see the good work done, the dialogued work, row all the folds, which in the end causes us to get out. And this week, so, as everyone knows, we haven't had an example. But the Spanish government's incompliments on commitments already made to Catalonia do nothing more than increase this mistrust. Statutory agreements that have not been able to last long – transfers, for example –; non-execution of the presumption, fiscal deficit, lack of resources or infrastructures in a chronic way – we have thousands of examples to explain – they do nothing but generate more mistrust. Therefore, we are before a critical moment between the two parts. And, therefore, it is essential to take a break; to strengthen, in any case, this negotiation process with conditions and guarantees before continuing. Right now we think that not getting up from the negotiation is the only way to get out - in, I also want to make it clear, because the problems are not solved alone, normally, but..., sweat on the sofa or take the wounds away from us, without providing solutions, only makes things worse. Therefore, what we are proposing is to be able to establish a strong agreement on this negotiation process that guarantees some nine conditions, if we want to resume the negotiations with guarantees and the relationship between the two governments. Therefore, we must have some guarantees to establish an equal negotiation. And this happens to end the repression and its effects and make it go back into certain normal and practical brands that the State has so far practiced. Therefore, we need to restore this confidence, to face the root of the political conflict, and that this confidence is built with concrete measures, with constant work and production, day by day. Therefore, the Government of the State must decide whether it is prepared to generate these essential conditions that guarantee negotiation or not. Let us rehearse the old song that what happens in Catalonia is a problem between Catalans is to demerge the explicit recognition of the conflict between Catalonia and the State, a recognition that, in fact, was the first point – the first, and I want to remind you so – of the agreement that was established by dialogue and negotiation between the two governments. We know perfectly well that some of them would be much more comfortable than the Catalans if we gave up the negotiation, but they wouldn't find us, ourselves, giving up the negotiation of self-determination, amnesty, because to buy the mental mark of the right, not to hear Catalonia, not to make decisions, that's the only thing that does it is to benefit the right itself. Now, let no one be mistaken, and we have already said this on many occasions and we say again: we are not giving a new opportunity to the Government of the State; we are giving a new opportunity to politics, we are giving a new opportunity to the negotiation process and to the opportunity of negotiation, which continues to feel the best way to resolve a political conflict and that which unites most..., the vast majority of Catalan society, between a seventy and a eighty per cent, who think it is the best way. Therefore, we will not abandon this democratic path of resolving the political conflict, but we cannot accept, on the part of the Spanish Government, only proclamations as the answer. These steps must have been taken, steps taken – which concretely lead to repression – and, therefore, results. What concrete proposal does the Government of the State have for Catalonia? What solutions are plantogens? The decision is, therefore, to the roof of the Government, of the Government. And, therefore, we insist on it, and we always do cork, many times as much as anyone. As you know, a few days ago I met in Madrid with the Minister of the Presidency, as the Councillor of the Presidency, on behalf of the President. And there we wanted to express all these ideas, positions, poses. In any case, we agreed to work to find these necessary guarantees that allow us to re-establish lost trust. As you know, as it was public yesterday, tomorrow we will meet again in Barcelona, but here we go with our dues. In this process of confidence-building it is essential to bring it together between the two presidents. It will be another important moment to know whether the Spanish Government is finally moving from a fundamentally rhetorical compromise in the negotiated resolution of the political conflict to tangible and short-term, medium-term and long-term commitments. Therefore, the aim of tomorrow, of the meeting, is to address the preparation of the meeting between the two presidents and continue to deepen in the realization of these new conditions and guarantees to continue the negotiation that I have explained to him. And in any case, and finally, and taking advantage of the fact that we are commemorating the year Fuster for the centenary of his birth..., I would like to end with one of his ideas, always lucid, always important and interesting, which he goes on to say: "It is not that the strong abuse of force. It's just that the strength itself can be a bust. We always have to have it present. There's a thousand ways of strength. Intelligence can also be one of them. Therefore, we bet for this later, for intelligence and strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.4.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran]] [[300-00200/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran, which the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.5.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, vice president, councillor. Well, I suppose you know that our parliamentary group has asked the question of this question to the Councillor of the Presidency because she is the councillor who led the project of the Olympic Winter Games, because she is also responsible for the deployment of the veggies, local governments, and because we understand that what High Pirinius and Aran need are integral policies of territorial development, and therefore that they will last for the end of cross-cutting. And we understand that this is what happens from the Presidency's advice. We are also connoisseurs that from his department, counselor, is pushing the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees 2030, and, therefore, you have heard this debate also with you. I, therefore, of this perspective, therefore, no problem. But I let them also... since they are both here, let me also tell them that one more time it seems that internal disputes between the governing partners end up affecting a concrete territory, in this case, the Pyrenees, with a multitude of instruments, of which they end up affecting the same sphere, in this case, as I say, the Pyrenees, with a certain sense of this, of uncoordinatedness and of chickpeas, right? Because we have the territorial table for the Olympic games, the participatory process of the games, the consultation, the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees 2030 and its participatory process. And to all this we have to add instruments of national scope that directly affect the High Pyrenees and the Aran, such as the law of the mountain, the law of territories, the Interdepartmental Commission for the Fight against Depopulation, the rural agenda, the state of micro-people... So, in the end, we have a cluster of situations that..., it seems that we want to do a lot of things, but what we care about is how this ends up in real policies that are effective and that actually change people's lives in the Pyrenees. The basic meaning of the inquiry is to know the government's strategy for a territory like the High Pyrenees and the Aran now that we know there will be no Olympic games in 2030. And, therefore, we want to ask them about their plate B, about their plate B for the Pyrenees without Olympic games. Obviously, from our group we will make a whole series of proposals with respect, but the first thing we want to know is whether this government continues to be encapsulated in making the development of the Pyrenees and the country's conjunct depend, in short, on great macro-projects and macro-developments or whether they think once again to make a move and start thinking about the country from its local and territorial specificities, with a view of sustainability that gives an urgent response to the needs of the people of the territory, but at the same time with a look, say, that I pursue a strategy to the medium and long term. In short, and in concrete terms, what we are asking you is whether you intend to continue to insist on the Olympic Games project, now by 2034, or whether you already recognize that, in a climate-emergency context, some Olympic Winter Games in Catalonia were no longer heard by 2030 and much less by 2034, when the effects of climate change in our country will still be known. And one of the most vulnerable areas of the country, precisely, to the effects of climate change, together with the Ebre Delta, will be the Pyrenees. As we have said, we want to focus on territorial development alternatives, but, like government policy makers, we believe that it is also important for you to be accountable. And it's that the government is already spending more than half a million euros on the promotion of games that we all know aren't going to happen, and a few weeks ago you were launching an advertising spot to try to condition the query, a query that doesn't seem to be going to happen. But it's not just the advertising campaign, it's the huge contracts designed to create a climate of support for the games. We are talking about at least twenty-six smaller contracts in the last four years for a value of EUR 300,000, most of which are intended for communication and dissemination of a project that, by the way, the country's citizens have not even come to know – they have failed to clarify such important issues as the overall economic cost of the project, the investments that were actually planned, the energy or water consumptions that had been associated with it or that would have been required, the environmental impacts, etc. Finally, having allocated more than half a million euros to one of its failed megaprojects with all that it has put in these past two years with the pandemic and with the inflation situation that we now have..., frankly, we believe that citizenship deserves an explanation or, at least, an apology, because we understand that it is not a shame that when they have just adopted measures worth only 1.5_million euros to deal with the situation arising from the war in Ukraine when they have just spent half a million dollars on a failed project..., we believe that we can give explanations. Faced with these previous considerations, we now enter into matter and the real alternatives of the future for the old age and, therefore, for the districts of the Alt Urgell, the Alta Ribagorça, the Cerdanya, the Pallars Jussà, the Pallars Sobirá and the territory of the Aran. I would like to place at least four large axes. The first is that of governance, of public policies to the High Pyrenees and the Aran, particularly for what makes two questions. The first is the deployment of the Vegueria by the Government of the Generality. We believe that we need to fully deploy this time, because what we need is to make decisions about the territory, because we need to make decisions about the territory with better diagnosis of problems and better solutions. But, of course, what we see is that precisely the High Pyrenees and the Aran is one of the most difficult times in this deployment, and it gives us the sense that here we have territories of first and second, because there are other territories in which the deployment of the Government of the Generality at the territorial level is much more advanced and, in turn, in this, that it is certainly the most needed, is that it has a more specific territorial reality, that would require this deployment, so we do not see that there are significant developments. And we've been with this thing for many years. And the second question about governance that we want to raise is all you have to do with the expansion of government quotas for the Aran. And this means expanding its jurisdictional framework, funding and actual recognition of the Aranian institutions. The legal recognition of the Aran and its jurisdictional mark have been, in practice, diluted by the lack of its regulatory deployment, by the lack of above all its financing. The presupposition of the year 2012, which is crazy about a 20_per_cent of the presupposition assigned to the Aran – and of this already two years ago – has not been reversed. And the hardest part is that the Government of the Generality has signed a financing agreement with the Aran to reverse this situation, but it does not complete the agreement. So, I don't know if it sounds, sings it, but let's look at what we're doing with the Aran and try to be exemplary too when we ask for other things we share with the state government. Therefore, we follow copies with the Aran. According to him, he wanted to plant it: it's all he has to do with housing. You know perfectly well that one of the main problems of Pirineu is access to housing. And this is one of the reasons that accelerates the dynamics of depopulation, and that is the consequence, we understand, of the tourist monoculture that we are living in this territory. A park of second-residence dwellings has been created, focused on second-residence dwellings, where the priests have scattered both in the loguer and in the purchase, and this impossibility that today the young people of the Pyrenees can stay alive in their territories or can return to them after they have gone to study outside, because this is another of the great problems of the Pyrenees, which are the difficulties of the young man to be able to study. But in any case, when they studied outside, then they can't come back, because there's no access to guaranteed housing. And I ask you which policies are being made to facilitate access to habitat in the Pyrenees; what are being done, therefore, to generate opportunities for the young people of the territory so that they can stay there. And back to the Aran, a territory we don't have resources or so alone to hold a hundred empty habitations and on..., you know how much money the Generality reben for housing policies in the year? Dotze_mil_euros– dotze_mil_euros – a year for housing policies in the Aran. I remind you that your salary is around EUR 118,000; therefore, almost twice as much as your government is dedicated to housing policies in the Aran. I know I can't compare it, but it seems so ridiculous to me, doze_mil_euros, for a territory like the Aran, for housing policies, when it's the main problem that Pirinaeus has, that I honestly think they should give some thought to respect. Third is that we want to plant it, that it is connectivity, both digital and physical, and, therefore, the mobility-related one, that both of you know that they represent, surely, the main deficit today in the day of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. And not only do they greatly limit the quality of life of their inhabitants, as well as the possibilities of economic development, but they are also the main obstacle to repopulation. I want to refer specifically to rail transport, and the one I'm going to ask has nothing to do with the transfer of skills, which we also defend, huh? But... For one band, the people's line is their responsibility: to turn the people's train into a real rolling train and not a tourist train as it is today, with just four trains a day – at seven, at three, and at nine – this is what we have now. And, for another band, according to the proposal, that is the proposal that we have made of the Pyrenees train connecting Andorra, the Seu and Alp for the Valley of the Secret, a proposal that we have agreed to study in the current assumptions of encany, that is being done. And what we're asking is that his execution in his own years is a priority. We know that this is a big reversal, but it is also a viable proposal and that, together with the doubling of the R3 to Vic and the improvement of the R3 line to Puigcerdà, it would not only transform the internal mobility dynamics of Pirineu, but also the connection of the Pirineu to Barcelona and France. And in the second part, in any case, I am developing some other proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.6.0	Then there is the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.7.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Good morning, MPs, MPs. First of all, let me congratulate you on this initiative, because for the first time we are presented with an initiative for the Pyrenees, which is to do things, not to let the Pyrenees stop doing things. I mean, in this sense, I think that the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees will do – already there is progress – with games or without. And that's the compromise we have from the government, because what we do know is that the Pyrenees must be able to decide what they want to do with the Pyrenees. I think that you sometimes don't respect this vision, like the political party, from the perspective that precisely last week was made the territorial table of the games, the Olympic games, and all the mayors of all the municipalities were in favor of it, huh? Therefore, you are the ones who are against what the Pyrenees want to decide to respect its development. In any case, this government's commitment is to listen to the people of the territory, and from here, work together with a unique and differentiated strategic agenda for the Pyrenees. This agenda must allow us to draw, agree and plan the future of this territory. According to your intervention, Congressman, I understand you're going to want to know what this agenda is. I've been there, haven't I? , this agenda..., the Government has already approved its strategic axes; therefore, on the part of the Government... And obviously we're subscribing her to a process of participation, because we understand that it's how things are to be done, in this type of territorial projects. In any case – and again insisting on my idea, as I have begun – what we will not do, in any case, and we will not do from the Government of Catalonia, is that since the Barcelona Assembly it is necessary to decide how it is done or what needs to be done in the conjunction of the Pyrenees. Just as the Pyrenees did not decide or could not decide whether the American cup is made, so to the territorial waters of Barcelona [[some applause]] , you must also hear that from the Barcelona Assembly you must stop wanting to decide what to do or what not to do from the Pyrenees. In this sense, and concretely from the Vice-President's Department, we are due to many actions for the Pyrenees. And let me continue with the details, first, what we have done so far, and, therefore, what we have done in this year of government; let me also after the concretes of this strategic agenda – I hope that in time – and also what schedule you have on this agenda. First of all, what have we done? What have we done so far? We only wear one year, and therefore I can already tell you that, from the Directorate General of Muntanya – the Government has a specific general direction to deal with mountain issues–, we have, to begin with, increased a hundred_forty_per_cent the game destined to keep roads to mountain regions, something very important and demanded for these municipalities. Last year there were 2.5_million euros; now there are 6_million euros. Plus, there's a 600,000-euro non-road game, that's to say, for everything that's little by little. After we have also donated 2 million grants to the local mountain councils for the purchase of machinery for the management and maintenance of roads – such as, for example, a scrapper or a tractor. Also, in this sense, we have gone from 2.5 to 9 million euros in the total amount of the reversal we are making for the Pyrenees; therefore, triple the reversal. In addition, we also have a suitable instrument, which is IDAPA, which leans from this department, and we have not doubled the budget, from 1.3 to 2.6 million euros. So, concrete facts, huh? , which you asked me for, of concrete policies that we are making for the Pyrenees. I'm not going to mention everything we're doing in fiber optics because I could hate him, huh? , from the perspective of the whole deployment, as had never been done before. We're already coming to the capitals of the region. Certainly, all of them minus one. We hope that today Mr Ordeig, in his subsequent inquiry, will give us some news respecting the permit so that we can access the Suert Bridge through the road of the State, which will, I say, allow this connection. I hope you'll bring us some good news from that perspective. In any case, tell him that we already have all the capitals of the region connected, and we are also connecting all the small municipalities of all the regions of the Pyrenees. Therefore, a very important reversal, from this perspective. Or, for example, we've also put in a heliport service for twenty-four hours to serve as an emergence. In this case, in concrete terms, if a person has a medical emergency, with the new heliport service twenty-and-four hours of the Seu d'Urgell is guaranteeing his transfer to the Tauli Hospital of Sabadell in less than thirty-five minutes. Therefore, we are also approaching the service of salvation to the Pyrenees in cases of heavy emergencies, an essential service. That's what we've done before in this legislature. Or, for example, we are also deploying the 5G areas of Pirinius and Aran, areas of innovation, the only demarcation that has two 5G areas of all that we have deployed so far. And this is also being done by this government, with the obvious objective of generating innovation. Or, for example, because this Saturday July 9th, for the first time, the failures of Erill the Vall is able to rebroadcast in streaming for 5G technology, in this case, for Pirineus TV, and, therefore, to give an added value to an event, in this case, cultural..., this event, obviously, touristic and cultural that also places the Pirineum on the map. Or, for example, one of the first decisions I made as Vice President and Counselor of Territori a year ago, which was to approve, in this case, the campmaster plan. In the field of Pirinaeus there are many fields that would require a lot of time for this board of directors. And, therefore, this board of directors is approved and resolving some of the problems that the camps had. Or, for example, we have also put in the way, with the launch of the Enxaneta nanosatellite, a service, in this case, also through the Cartographic Institute and also through Sant Esteve de la Sarga, where we have the observer, for the better of agrarian processes in the field of Pirinaeus, providing data to do, in this sense, pilot tests in the camp. Or, for example, in the area of trains, which you obviously have a special concern – we too – we are already at these times requesting the study to assess the viability and trajectory of this new railway service to the Pyrenees, which you spoke about earlier. In this case, from Puigcerdà..., well, from Alp to Seu, and then also the possibility to reach Andorra. But it's true that one of the areas that we also have and will need to improve, and in this case they'll be in the state government, is R3. Then I'll talk about it and I'll talk about it more concretely, the importance that this line of trains also has. I'm just saying, if we're talking about trains, we're talking about all the train lines. I believe that R3 to Puigcerdà is essential, from this perspective. I, obviously, the people's train. Listen, we've increased... we've doubled the service in this legislature, in the name of trains. So, we're doing things to improve, obviously. You can't tell me that the train to the Pobla has to be a service like the Barcelona metro, but we will guarantee a service that gives a frequency that allows the people of these places to move, in this case, to Lleida, at a time and with an acceptable flexibility. Also, through the Bill of Measures, we modified the relationship to the uses and activities of non-urban land, with the objective that young rowers who want to stay at the side of the family members' house..., that they can make their own home, that before they could and had to live with the parents, and that made the continuity of that business very difficult. We are also deploying the territorial services of the Old Pyrenees and Aran. As you know, government delegates depend on the vice-presidency of the government. And he's been in this legislature where we've deployed the services, where we're deploying the territorial services. After many years and asking for it for a long time, it has been this government that is deploying territorial services in this demarcation. We're also preparing the future law of the mountain, a specific law that Catalonia has, which is... now I don't remember if it's from 83 or... it's a long time ago, and it had to be updated. And, therefore, we are putting it up to date and we have already approved the preliminary memorandum by the government, and it will be in public display until the end of September. In short, we are carrying out a whole process of improvements for mountain communities, specifically for the Pyrenees, with a strategic agenda for the Pyrenees based on four axes. And, obviously, this agenda claims to be a starting point of the debate that will take place through a participatory process open to all citizens, and therefore it will be the people of the Pyrenees who will decide what they want to do with policies in the Pyrenees – won't be decided by Mrs. Ada Colau, eh? So, from this perspective... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, she's not an obsession. It's just that you've devoted yourselves... [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, you have dedicated yourselves to boycotting, from Barcelona, the project of the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees. Make it clear, make it clear. They're the main ones responsible. And so, man, when we talk about respect... [[A lot of you see the vice president.]] Yeah, you, you, huh? Yours, yours. Therefore, what we have to do, in any case, is to respect the Pyrenees and to respect that from the Pyrenees we can develop policies to make possible, therefore, a better activity in these regions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.8.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.9.0	Thank you, President. Well, Vice-President, you see, our parliamentary group, like all parliamentary groups, can have a political position on the Pyrenees and all the territories, and that's what we do. Point number two, the Pyrenees, like all territories, is diverse, and therefore, there are differences of opinion. Not everyone thinks the same, the Pirinaeus. And that's precisely why we've been defending from the principle is that you're conducting a consultation with the Pyrenees, because, in any case, it was the Pyrenees that decided on their future. Therefore, on what it is the citizenship of the Pyrenees that must decide about its future, we must not give anything to ourselves. And the position of the Barcelona Assembly I think has been pretty clear, okay? That is to say, one thing is that from our political group we defend and the other thing is like the Barcelona Assembly, like the capital of the country, has always said that it would collect the country's conjunction and its territory. And this was the position of the Mayor of Barcelona. In any case, more than you want to get into certain political triflings, we are interested in talking about content and we are interested in moving forward. We've made some proposals to you. In some, there has been some reference, in others not; for example, in the matter of housing, which we know, therefore, is one of the main problems that today the Pyrenees has. I was actually talking to him about mobility and connectivity. We also know, therefore, that one of its main objectives is all that has to do with digital connectivity. We are celebrating that the deployment of optical fiber to all the regions, to all the municipalities is due to the end, but it is also possible to get mobile phones to all the territories, because one of the problems of the Pyrenees is precisely the lack of mobile phone coverage in many areas. And, in the field of mobility, effectively, it's about doubling the R3 to Vic. We trust, therefore, that the 20-30 roll plan will do so, as it is already beginning..., it is already bid and it has begun the execution of this work. And we think we should also improve the Vic-Puigcerda tram. He says to me: "We have doubled the servants of the people's line. Well, going from back to back. We think this is insufficient. That is to say, we really want..., not that it worked like the Barcelona metro, obviously, but we do want a frequency that is acceptable, not just for the people, but for the conjunct of the line. Also in the field of mobility, we, of course, are aware that with the railway we do not solve the total mobility of a territory which has little population density and which, moreover, has a very difficult orography. And, therefore, what it is to improve, obviously, the access lives to the different connections; therefore, to improve the road connections – certainly, many of which depend on the State – but also to provide us with a collectible transport service that is reliable and that is efficient, and today we have nothing or anything else. To go from Llavorsí to Barcelona trigues between five and six hours and cost almost forty euros, the journey of anada. It doesn't feel like flying to the Balearics is more economical than going down from the Pyrenees to Barcelona. You haven't heard that, and we have to change it. And we understand that we have two great opportunities for mobility in road transport, in collective transport. One is the possibilities that technologies offer, therefore, for all that is transport on demand; therefore, here we believe that we need to deploy and move forward in this area. And the other is the expiration of the concessions to the bus lines that will be produced in the next few years, which we believe is a great opportunity and that here the Government of the Generality has full competence to redefine the routes, to redefine frequencies, to redefine times and, above all, to set up prices that are really affordable so that the people of Pirinaeus can move from their own territory, but also to connect with the country's capital, which is now extremely difficult. The fourth is that I wanted to plant it – and I ended up – is all it has to do with economic diversification. We believe that one of the great strategic mistakes in the territorial development bet of the Pyrenees is to bet on a single sector. He's only betting on the tourist monoculture model. We think there's a change here. As we also believe that it is not possible to make this monoculture of winter sports depend on tourism, but it can also diversify the tourism activity linked to sport with other mountain sports that are powerful, that are important and that the Pyrenees really could give it a lot of itself. And be aware that we are in a climate-emergency context and that, therefore, it is a bet to diversify the combination of economic activity and also, as far as possible, to reactivate the primary sector and, obviously, to make teletreball possible and also to bet for the tertiary sector. And lastly, you tell me..., you have said several times: "We only wear one year of government and we have done all this in one year of government. No, listen, you guys have a lot of years of government. The law of the mountains... begins the need to modify it in the year 2011, more than two years ago, and you were already in the government. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.10.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.11.0	Thank you, Congressman, also for your intervention. Listen, the law of the mountain... we already have one, of the law of the mountain; what it is about is to update it and put it up to date. And this government is what's at the moment... it's already approved the preliminary memory in the government's yes, and so we're pushing it. Therefore, concrete facts, of concrete policies, which we are pushing for the Pyrenees. In any case, the strategic agenda is another. And here, obviously... I think it's a lot of paper that we won't have time to get into all spheres of action today. You haven't mentioned much: housing, mobility, etc. It is obvious that in two minutes it is impossible to address all these issues. I think it is that, and we will also see it later on in the motion that you will surely present, the motion that follows... in any case, we have made four great axes of action. An axis, obviously, centered on the servers, and therefore, the small servers that require very unpopulated areas and with a complicated orography. And here there is salvation, education, habitation, etcetera, obviously. It is also very important that the new policies in the field of development, which must obviously always be based on the fight against climate change, should be adopted today. All that we have to have, obviously, a vision of carbon footprint tend to zero or neutral. Therefore, all this is incorporated, sustainability, in all activities. The other great element is, obviously, this economic and innovation development, which, in a certain way, must also allow the new digital economy. The Pyrenees can have a great opportunity, here, to develop nine activities, not only based on tourism and other concrete industries that until now were traditional in the Pyrenees. I think we can do a lot of good work here. But all this, obviously, will need, I think, a very important field of action, which is all the field related to infrastructure, both railway and road infrastructure as well as, obviously, digital infrastructure, huh? And in these last few I won't be there, but they are obviously the ones who enable teletreball, and, therefore, they also allow, in a certain way, that many other services can be provided. I hope that, in this journey that we will do to improve Pirinius also from this perspective, you will help us; from the perspective of the skills they have in the field of the Government of the State, or of the capacity of influence they have in the Government of the State, to improve some of these questions, because you claim much to the Government of the Generality, but I do not see that you ever claim anything to the Government of the State, which they are part of – or, if not, do not do so with the same vehemence. There aren't a few of them that are phoneous. The national 260, which traverses all of Pirinaeus and which is the one that connects Pirinaeus in a transversal form, from valle to valle, is an infrastructure that requires better from a long time ago. We are talking, for example, that there are some tunnels drawn, in the case of Perves, and also better in the area of the Cantó that we hope that someday the Government of the State will get there, because one of the problems that Pirinaeus has is its communication between valleys, not downhill, not in Barcelona. It is wheat more, sometimes, going from one valley to another than going to Manresa or going down to Barcelona. And, therefore, that has to be corrected. And the lives that make this communication possible are currently lives of the State – the N-260. If, in fact, there is no way to push these initials, it is very easy: to pass on these lives to the Generality and we will not take care of ourselves. The other important element, which is the relation to the train – you commented, didn't you? –..., I think at these times we're talking, obviously, I think about the R3 route, which you say will unfold until Vic. Now the only one who's predicted it is to unfold it to the Garriga. I'm saying because the forecast... at the rate they're going in this direction to get to the Garriga, if that same rate goes to Vic, we'll get to Vic by 2100. I don't know when we'll get to Pirinius, Puigcerda. In any case, it is obvious that if we make a bet for the trains, that must be corrected. And, therefore, here we are obviously asking for the full transfer of this line, like many other lines that are internal lines of Catalonia, because it is possible to improve an essential service also and, obviously, it is not so much to go down to Barcelona, in this case, with a transport system that is not the private vehicle. And finally, also in the area of bus transport, I think we have to make a clear bet here – and we are making it – for which is the transport on demand, the bus on demand. Because it is true that in these areas there can hardly be regular lines beyond connecting the capitals of the region, but in order to reach small municipalities, the bus on demand will be of use. And we will make a specific bet – and we are already making it in the Pyrenees, but we want to extend it in this legislature – to improve this service. In any case, we will continue to talk about this, surely, through the subsequent motion and the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.12.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about digital policies]] [[300-00202/13]] Let's move on to the 14th item on the agenda, the question to the Government on digital policies, which the Socialist and Unites for Forwarding Parliamentary Group has presented. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.13.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies... A while ago, you said: "What do the mayors want? What does the territory want? I believe that in this case, we will coincide in much of the diagnosis, but we will try to go one more hair there. And here, I will begin, if any, by the end, to say: "Home, what do the mayors want? That you have to find, when you go for the territory, that we also find you, and that you say... You go to the High Land and, oysters, the mayors many times tell you that there are problems with mobile phone coverage, that there are problems with fiber; industrial polygons of the Ebra, Lleida, Pirineu, the Junta of Catalonia, the Senia, without going any longer – that you know you are not aware of; in Espot – the fiber passes by the side, but it turns out that there are few meters to get to Espot, at the entrance of the national park of the estació not up here – in Bergedà, in the Conca de Barbera, in Torredembarra, in Creixell, also many problems. And so a long etcetera, like... Yesterday morning he spoke with a vein of Montferrer and Castellbò, who also said to me: "One part we do have coverage; another part of a large extension of municipal term do not have it. Like the historical lack of coverage of Benifallet, Aspa, the Priorat, Pratdip, Tavèrnoles, communication routes and reelers that, in theory, we should also cover them. Why do I start at the end? To say precisely: "Look, here we will do a series of background reflections, but also to try to concretely and take concrete actions that allow us to solve some of the historical deficiencies, without which we cannot focus on the many challenges we have. Digital infrastructure. There is a reason for the question that it is to talk to him about the lack of mobile phone and optical fiber coverage – optical fiber of 100 mega–, and above all to make an assessment of it, to tell us his opinion, about what is the degree of compliment of the different strategies, of the different documents, of the different commitments that the Government has undertaken above all by 2022 and 2023. You said yourself that 2023 would be guaranteed the end of Catalonia's optical fibres. I understand that, then, when you explain it, we have to say to you: "Explain'smilor. Because he also said, for example, the other day, when he was at the Pallars Sobirá – press release of the Government, May 2022 –: « Fibra al Pallars Sobirá. Twelve municipalities, twenty-seven nuclei. All right; but, of course, how many people will the Pallars have? One-thirty-five. Many of these people aren't up there, the fiber, and surely he hasn't predicted that he'll get there properly. Therefore, we should see how we adapt this strategy to make it reach all the nuclei or the maximum number of population nuclei in Catalonia. We've analyzed the digital infrastructure plan. That's right, it's a good diagnosis of where we're going, where we're going. We have analyzed the national pact for a digital society, the 5G strategy of Catalonia, and a very interesting study that you included in your presentation, which is the evaluation study of the impacts of the deployment of infrastructure to Catalonia. Actually..., a long study, from the University of Barcelona, that brings back all the benefits of territorial connectivity in a world after the war, after the pandemic, with the European foundations that at these times we have available, therefore, that digitalization, sustainability, innovation, but above all digitalization, there will be a fundamental role. Without connectivity, obviously, the train will escape from the many changes we have ahead. And what we need, in the Pyrenees, but also in Lleida, in the Jews, in Tarragona, in Central Catalonia, in the territories, is to have a competitive and just territory, not because connectivity brings us more opportunities, more economic and business activity, less time, more productivity – to draw a return of twelve times the investment we make in optical fiber–..., not only because of this; it is that today there is no future, there is no teletreball, there is no business, there will be no opportunity, if there is no fiber connection, if there is no mobile phone coverage. So that's what we're gonna talk about. The study compares what is being done to other countries. And here we also want to ask for an appreciation of the public network of Catalonia, the Open Network of Catalonia. The same study says that the Open Channel of Catalonia, the public network, has to be used to get to those places where private initiative does not come up. But, curiously, when we see the unfolding of the last years of the Open Party of Catalonia, we see how there is a very radial unfolding. And if one thing has taught us the crisis of the covid and this new model that we want to defend and this digital transformation that we want to drive, it is precisely that we have to break with the radial patterns, with the growth patterns of Barcelona's Metropolitan Area outside. It is precisely said that public fibre networks must be used to get there where private operators do not arrive. Therefore, what we had to do, above all, is to donate miles and miles of optical fiber to the territory in the form of a network, rather than to start with large metropolitan areas. In this – I suppose you have seen it – the study says: "The level of execution of populations with high population density..., "the level of execution of optical fiber is high, but to the populations, to the territories with low population density – therefore, to the small people – "the state of execution is low. The state of execution is low to small towns for what it does to the Open House of Catalonia. So first of all, I'd like to hear from you. Another critical element that this study also does is the effective competence of the new generation internet. I suppose you've seen it. We have a big problem, because it's not just the fiber channeling, but then there are operators who want to give it to you. And we see just the 1,4_per_cent... 2019 data, updated and certainly improved by 2020. The 21st are not yet there; therefore, all the data we have to put in perspective 2019. And, obviously, we know that the percentages have increased, that they have made themselves kilometres of fiber, but in any case, we see how there is an insufficient trend of growth..., of carrying the fiber and the cover. The 1,4_per_cent of the municipalities of Catalonia have an effective competition in fiber – 1,4 –, very little. Clearly, we have a hard problem, it's that of the god-north: to the north-percent of the territory there is only the god-percent of the population. So, here... it's what we need. It is that the noranta_per_cent of the municipalities present serious difficulties, deficiencies in optical fiber coverage – noranta_per_cent of the municipalities. If we then enter population clusters, the situation is still more complex. I'd love to, too... if I could comment on the 4G-5G coverage. Also in the study it is said that the sixty-two-per-cent of the municipalities have a hundred_per_cent coverage; only forty-sis_per_cent to Lleida, Pirineu and Aran, which is the lowest. And here are some contracts that win this year and the year you see, from the management of the communications towers, to try to get this coverage coming up from the territory. Think of making some changes to the new towers contracts to try to improve mobile phone coverage? All of us here are fed up with complaints about deficiencies in 4G-5G covers. I would also like, if you please, if you have time, that I can also assess the arrangements that have been made with the different members of Parliament, because this is a project, this is a cross-cutting task, from the group of public administrations, to the public administration and the agents and entities..., private enterprises. I don't give an example, to see if he's done the follow-up, that you think he's the one who has to lead this. Diputation of Lleida. You make a deal to execute optical fiber where you don't arrive. Do you want me to tell you the level of execution? Pressupost 2019, Diputació de Lleida : 10_million euros. Executed: zero. Pressupost 2020, fiber optics Diputació de Lleida : 10_million euros. Executed: zero. Pressopost 2021... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, well, the deal's signed with the Catalonian General. 2021, presupposition: 10_million euros; executed: zero. Clearly, then... we have a strategy that is impossible to complete. And so, I'm telling you here today, because reflection is global, and so, here are a lot of people who have to work together because they're moving forward. And another element that also concerns us very much. In Catalonia there are 3,900 people, 3,900 people. You say: « We arrive in all Catalonia. We don't get to all of Catalonia, because... 3,900 people. Does the fiber have to come in all the way? I'm sure you don't, at least you're channeled. Does the Internet have to go all the way? I'm sure it is. So, I'd also appreciate it... we didn't understand why this pilot or another test was done between the Aran General Council and Hispasat to try to get satellite to the most remote places... why not initiate them, this or some other similar... why don't we? And why don't we adapt all the studies and strategies that we have precisely to try to make 2023, 24 or 25 internet speed across all territories? The university study also says that the coverage between the seventy-five_per_cent, one hundred_per_cent, one hundred mega..., of these 3,900 people, we reach the twenty-five_per_cent of the total, at 814. I to Lleida the 4,2_per_cent of the people have fiber– 4,2 –; coverage, seventy-five, cent_per_cent, eh? Tarragona, twenty per cent. So this is where he came in. I repeat again: data 2019. I think it's been up four points, more or less, 2020, and it should be 2021... Girona, doze_per_cent, huh? So... these are some facts that I'd like to contrast with. And I'd love to, too, counselor, that we try to sum up, share reflections. The future is drawn and we share it, and therefore I would like to find those transversal spaces to try to work for an effective digitalization of Catalonia and its society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.14.0	Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.15.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, Congressman. Indeed, digitization is one of the most important transformation vectors we will have in our own years. And so, the basis for this digital transformation goes first, because there's a good connectivity, huh? Without connectivity, we can hardly transform digitally. And this policy is a policy that I personally have been pushing for years, as I said, so I also had the opportunity to have more assumptions, less, and also the political capacity to pull it forward, and also with the complicity of the rest of the administration, because this has to be a shared country project. You said that very well, didn't you? That's what we all have to do. Therefore, everyone here has to pose on their side. The generality is putting the big size on it, but it is true that the deputies and the assemblies must also put on their side. In this sense, Catalonia is made up of 947 municipalities. Then you talk about 3,900 people. It's true that then there are many disaggregated nuclei, huh? , some of them..., in short, within a municipality itself, so, they get mixed up, with few inhabitants, huh? , in some cases, including, with two, three, four people living there. I've always been very realistic. Our first objective is to bring fiber to all municipalities for a theme, too, of territorial balance and solidarity. And, once we reach this goal, we can set ourselves – because this, obviously... the resources are not unlimited – to be able to bring this infrastructure to many of these 3,900 small clusters of inhabitants as well. But it is true that, if the infrastructure is not up, in this case, the fiber, the one that has to come up is the Internet, as you also said very well. And that's what we're working on, too. And so not everyone will get the cable, but everyone will get the ability to be connected by different technologies. But first we need the fiber to reach all the municipalities, because when you have the fiber it's easier to connect without wires using other technologies to connect these small nuclei. If the fiber doesn't come up in the city, this possibility is only used to use such technology, as you also very well said, but this is more expensive, huh? If not, until now. Maybe in the future we can have these types of connections, so, at a more reasonable price. So, that's why we're making this effort, huh? And, in fact, this study to which you referred, the study of the Autonomous University, is a study that we celebrate. Actually, we've worked together, haven't we? Obviously, in this study. It seemed to us that a university valued the impact of this deployment of this unique model that we are making of public-private collaboration, with this model that is close to Catalonia for the deployment of optical fiber trunk networks, is what..., in short, is a good model and has been included rewarded by the European Commission. So, let's go in the right direction. Then, too, if we value the indicators, in this case, that the European Union does on the level of connectivity and digitalization that European states have... DESI, the digital economy and society index, is an indicator that makes some years ago that measures, we say, so, this degree of digitalization, and one of its special chapters is connectivity. We asked whether this methodology could be applied to measure not only states, but also other territories, and, therefore, territories, in this case, with Catalonia. And so we did. And we haven't done it ourselves, we've been in charge of independent organizations, which, taking advantage of the same methodology, have measured how Catalonia is. So, Catalonia, in the field of connectivity, is among the first four in Europe for which it does high capacity, connectivity in small municipalities, in large municipalities. Therefore, our output point..., the last measurement of the digital economy and society index tells us that we are very much above, for example, that the joint venture of Spain. We are very much on top of that most European states. Only in Finland, Norway, Denmark and Holland. And in connectivity, not all of them, just some of them. So, I think we're in a good position. I think this is the fruit of the work that has been done these years in connection with deployment models. And so they tell us when we ask to measure ourselves, huh? , whether it is done by the University of Barcelona or by European institutions, in comparison with other points in Europe. That we have things left to do? Yeah, it's obvious. We're not done, are we? You've already given some examples. And that's why our commitment was, in the past legislature, to finish the deployment to bring the Generality's fiber trunks to all the region's capitals. I have to remember that everyone except one. And here we ask them, once more, to help us all at once to be able to go through one of the repositories of the State that will allow us to connect, in this case, the Pont de Suert..., which is the only region where there are no repositories of the Generality. And, therefore, we have no way of getting there because of the way we are extending optical fiber. Here we would ask the Socialist Party, therefore, to help us speed up this process, which we have been asking for for a long time. And from here on out, we're also connecting municipalities in step, industrial polygons... And right now... you think we've already deployed 4,100 miles of optical fiber, long these past years. That, finally, because an idea is coming up, would be like going from Barcelona to Sant Sebastià, passing through Paris, Brussels, Luxembourg, Stuttgart, Switzerland, Milà, returning to Monaco and arriving in Barcelona, eh? Anyway, we've done a very important deployment job. And now we're planning, for these next two years, 1,700 more kilometers of deployment, with a bet... well, we're doubling what we've done these past years from the perspective of annual execution. And why are we doing this? So we're doing it precisely... you're from the Urgell's Su, huh? And you know that we brought the fiber to yours, we brought it to Puigcerdà. But, between Sei and Puigcerda, so obviously, there are a few people left to connect, a few municipalities. Now we can't do it for a reason, because in order to pass it we have to pass through the national 260, which I hope that when you help us, then we can pass this network of optical fiber and we can connect, so, finally, from Cava, the Bar Bridge, Lles de Cerdanya, Montellà and Martinet, Bellver de Cerdanya, Meranges..., small municipalities that currently do not reach this infrastructure and that they must arrive at these times by other mechanisms that are not, in this sense, so efficient. Listen, they're willing to help with this. I don't think anyone in this room is going to say we don't deploy optical fiber for the country. Vaja, I seem to want to go against the 21st century. And in this sense, we have to do it with all the administrations. You mentioned all the good stuff with the deputies. I pushed these things myself. We've been very well with the Barcelona Chamber of Deputies, with the Girona Chamber of Deputies and with the Tarragona Chamber of Deputies, we're doing a lot of work. With Lleida's Deputy, it's true that we've had some problems, and we've had them for different reasons. Also, sometimes, because reel technicians are tougher at the time of being able to pass infrastructure in very narrow reel, and so they forced us to use the vorals, etc. And, therefore, we have to, in this sense, from the perspective of the Department and the Direction de Carreteres, change some things because it was easier, this possibility. And, in any case, tell him that, while the Lleida Department has not been able to execute its trams, I also have to tell him that it is being done by the Generality. So, we're moving forward with the Lleida Department's trams with the intention that after the Lleida Department recovers other trams that it would be up to the Generality. Therefore, we are not stuck in planning; simply, we have changed the papers. And, therefore, we are doing at these times a part of the work that now, for various reasons, Lleida's Diputation could not execute, with the compromise that it will perform after later trams, and therefore we will make up for it from this perspective. So we're not done. And this collaboration is very good with the four members, I must say, from this perspective. To say also that, obviously, in the area of mobile phone coverage..., here we..., you mentioned the tower contract – the towers are obviously an important instrument to help, precisely, to promote coverage–, but here I must say that, unfortunately, we do not have competitions over the spectrum, the radio spectrum. So as we can deploy fiber for the reels – so, direct connectivity – we don't have the capacity..., the competitions are from the State. We would already like to keep them, and, therefore, be able to subvert the spectrum and be able to make a specific telecommunications policy in the field of mobile phone coverage. That's what the State does. The only thing we can do is try, with the towers, help, help the operators have more facilities. From this perspective, what are we doing, too? So, taking advantage of the Generality's optical fiber network, we're connecting these towers with optical fiber, because if there's optical fiber in the towers there might be 5G; if there's no fiber, there won't be 5G. And in any case, in my reply I will continue to comment on other elements that you have commented on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.16.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.17.0	Yes, thank you, President. Vice President, because you don't think I'm running away from school, I'm just gonna have to say things to myself once in a while. He already told me, the one who was passing at the Pont de Suert. And escorts... aviam, the permit already has him, to cross the road. The permit's already got him. [[Some applause.]] The one that happens, that you don't want to pass at the cost of crossing a national, or with the technical requirements that give them. Therefore, I want to explain the whole truth. And two, that's what you fix at a two-minute meeting. He's the vice president. Therefore, speaking to the technicians, to the Government of the State, this in two minutes you uncheck it. The one that happens, that maybe... I don't know if it's okay for you to come here and go so that you make optical fiber all over the state. But listen, this..., administrative and technical issues, obviously, that we're here for is trying to mingle them and pull them forward. Pirinius, Lleida, Hebrew, the conjunct of the territory... this is the historic opportunity we've been waiting for. He was talking to us here about road, rail infrastructure. Listen, that's... that's a lot more cheap and a lot more effective, investing in technological infrastructure. We have a great opportunity to get rid of geographic distances. In Catalonia, at the conjunct of the State, and in Europe, and in the world. Today, that teletreball is being established, for the first time a person can live an hour and a half from Barcelona and work in Barcelona. So... oysters. Now, this will not be achieved if it is not accompanied by the guarantee of technological infrastructure and an effective digital policy. Another prec that I do: there is the Digital Agenda 2020 of the Generalitat, which was started working on 14 or 15, or 12..., 13, 2020, which has become obsolete, with everything that has passed. Counselor, call a current digital agenda that also refocuss all of these goals and reinforces or changes those that have not worked well. We, if it serves as a guide, have approved a digital agenda 2025, the alternate government does so much thanks to them, but it also does these things, see what you do, see what is done to other places, and try to present solutions at the company's joint, or also help the government wherever we can. It is necessary to re-evaluate the deployment of the Xarxa Oberta de Catalunya. I'm telling you, I think it's a mistake, honestly, to prioritize metropolitan areas with the public network. You're telling me that's not true. Okay. I'll listen to it, if you tell me it's not true, but when you look at the map... and, as I say, the connected municipalities, every year what evolution has happened... there has been a radial evolution that has prioritized metropolitan areas. I'm sure you have some explanation, but the evaluation study, this study that you also defended, says that we did very well here, but that we did very poorly in small clusters. Therefore, I believe that here we have to... Counsellor, he says: « Help. We'll help everything we can, but we'll try to adapt these strategies or we'll try to ensure that the next two, three years, the 23rd, we'll get there... Or do I ask: the 23rd, we'll get to all of Catalonia, with fiber? Not capital of the region; all the municipalities? I don't think so. Therefore, let us see what strategy we adopt for the small people, for the 3,900 people of Catalonia. With what? Why isn't that defined, huh? The strategies..., we have many, but at every town..., at least I haven't seen it. Twenty per cent, huh? Vint_per_cent fiber cover 2019; Lleida, 4.2. I told you before, didn't I? It's poquet, it's poquet. I know there's a lot of them, huh? So, what else did he want to say? Rural houses, campgrounds, farms, farms, people who want to make teletreball... We also need to see what mechanism we use to solve the many incidents that came out. You know that fiber can arrive and there can be a lot of problems; that there can be mobile phone coverage, but also that it is, the signal, low, or that there are a lot of problems, or that there is only one operator. The other day I was in a village that I was told: "Here you are from Movistar or... So, yes, but we have to see how we do it. And if this operator then stops working on it, we'd find out who I'm dealing with... from the government, who listens to the problem and how we try to deal with it. I know it's complex and hard to solve, but I think we need to get laid. We've got to get down, huh? Territories with great territorial diversity, but we all have a clear and concrete objective. So... And I repeat it, corporate contracts. For me it is very important; 144_million euros the year in corporate contracts of the Generalitat – 144_million euros. Can we use these new contracts to try to improve coverage, connectivity? And as much as it is. Doing miracles? No, no, But let's try, now that these 2022-2023 contracts are over, to make good contracts for your own two years, or for your own five years, or for the time that they last, to try to make coverage and connectivity effective at the conjunction of Catalonia. Thank you, vice president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.18.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.19.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, it's obvious the words of the Faristol are all right, huh? But then, when the time of truth, which is in the presupposition..., you have submitted to the length of these years to increase the presuppositional parties in telecommunications matters in the presupposition of the Generality, zero; presuppositional, concrete, presuppositional... Moreover, you presented a statement in these last assumptions, or I think they were the previous ones, to reduce the CTTI's departure by EUR 6_million in order to be able to pay, in this case, a match in the field of the Lands of the Jews, if I don't recall badly, eh? ... that you wanted to set up a 6_million euro Ebre Lands match and proposed that that match be reduced by the SITC. This was his dream. So, the words are pretty good, huh? And I very much agree that we need to move forward with digitization, but then, when the premise comes in, when we have to approve it with a premise, I want to see how many items you will present with an increase in telecommunications assumptions, so that, precisely, you can help with this policy, because so far you haven't really shown it to us. Then you talk all the way around 3,900 people. Listen, I've explained it. As you can see, Catalonia is made up of 947 municipalities, which, many of them, still do not have the top of the generality's trunk; in fact, in a percentage of small towns and very high micro-populations. Why did this happen? Because this is a truncated web that was unfolding in the tree, and, therefore, it goes, say, penetrating into the territory. And it obviously takes advantage of the road infrastructure to go to all these municipalities. If we had started with the extremes, they would have taken over, huh? To put it this way, the final trams of the small municipalities would have been disconnected. We'd keep the infrastructure there and nobody could connect to it. So, the deployment policy that has been made, that has continued to go, say, unfolding this tree of optical fiber web for trunks, so, obviously, first came to larger municipalities; not metropolitan areas, huh? , we are talking about municipalities of between five thousand and two thousand inhabitants– these are not metropolitan areas. It's just that, in fact, in metropolitan areas we haven't practically entered or entered. All the reversal that we are making, precisely, is in the territory and in the conjunct of the comarques, which is formed, in its great measure, by municipalities, therefore, in this case, from five thousand inhabitants to twenty thousand inhabitants, right? And now we are also connecting already small municipalities, municipalities of less than a thousand inhabitants. And the point is that..., and this was the motivator that we set up last legislature, that it was the end of county capitals last legislature, and this legislature ended the conjunction of the 947 municipalities. You're talking to me about 2023. It is true that we initially set this date, because we believed that, in the mark of the legislature, therefore, as an evolving path, and also according to the assumptions that we can approve, this could be a reasonable mark. Now what we're saying is that in this legislature we're going to finish this job, and so we're going to try to make it 2023; if it can't be 2023, we're going to try to make it 2024, but the goal is to finish this legislature. And then we'll obviously have all the work to do in the small nuclei, which here we have to look for other solutions, in many of them, because in many of them we won't get there, and we have to tell the people the truth. We won't get there, with optical fiber, in a page house that is up a mountain, where there may be three families. We have to come up with wireless technologies, and more so, with a good wireless technology service. That's not to worry, they'll have a good internet service, but if they have the fiber around, that'll be easier. And then we also need to think about other digital infrastructures. You have been talking a lot about only optical fiber and also mobile phone coverage, but we also need Catalonia to be connected intercontinentally with fiber infrastructure, with submarine cables that also provide more economic and competitive performance to our economy. And that's why this year – I've already said it publicly, and so I'm going to repeat it here in Parliament's Faristol – the first subsea cable will arrive in Catalonia, which will obviously allow us to connect intercontinentally. And this will obviously also help, in this sense, to improve the connectivity of our country. In short, listen, you will find no more complicity than in this advisor, in the matter of the deployment of digital infrastructures. I hope that in the main opposition group we also find this complicity, above all for what it does to two very important elements: when the assumptions arrive, and, obviously, being able to facilitate – which is not well as you have explained – the step of the Generalitat's digital infrastructures for road infrastructures of the State, which today makes us very difficult.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.20.0	We pass the fifteenth point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the protection of the coastal environment, which has presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. [[Question to the Government on the protection of the coastal environment]] [[300-00207/13]] And he has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr. Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.21.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... Well, this inquiry has been made to you, but they understand, therefore, that coastline, territories and climate action are concepts that are totally linked and that, obviously, this means a joint work between the different departments and that are indestriable terms. Therefore, the policy we will ask you to do, obviously, will also have to work with the Department of Climate Action. We are talking, therefore, about the coast, the Catalan coast, a coast on which we have seen, both in the Islands and in the Valencia Country as in the Catalan Countries..., both in the Principality of Catalonia..., that is, in the Catalan Countries, we have seen a coast in a very delicate situation due, above all, to the human pressure, the climate change and a bad management that has taken place on this coast. And this nasty thing's been running for years. In fact, the current Catalan coast has little to do with what we knew half the 20th century. We are all aware that in the last decades of the Franco dictatorship a process of destruction of natural systems began with new tourist centres, camps, hotels and second residences. But this Franco-Developed model also continued during the Transition and also throughout all subsequent governments, both municipally and autonomously, that have continued with this type of urbanism predatory, extractive, and building, in this new age, thematic parks, casinos, sports ports, golf camps and turning all the coast into artificial spaces, always thinking more about tourists than not in the proper veins and veins they see. And this policy, unfortunately, today is still in force, as we are seeing these days in Begur, but examples like this Begur, so we find it far off the coast. Counselor, we have a coastline on the edge, where the few coastal areas that have not yet been built are to be protected as a common, very precarious good that can be conserved in full climate emergence. This predatory urbanism that only favors a few we have to put an end to, and now. You have to save the one that isn't packed yet and recover the maximum of all these already evil and degraded areas. In fact, he knows perfectly well the report « The coast to the limit, which explains the situation, therefore, to the Principality of Catalonia. And this report is made by the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development – which is from the first Generality of Catalonia – in 2021. This report points out to us that between 95 and 2015 the landings have lost 0.44_transversal metres per year, but that at a sixty-five_per_cent of the coast this xifra was still higher, 1.6_annual metres. In addition, it underlines that the High Empordà has a particularly critical situation, and that the most unfavourable forecast is that the year 2035 will only be half the plagiarism, fifty-four_per_cent, will complement the necessary broad conditions, and that a new_per_cent will be eroded at all, i.e., one of the two plagiarisms of our country will disappear. And that's why there's been a misplanned management, a mass withdrawal of power, the creation of ports, mechanical cleanness and poor planning of natural space, which has involved these setbacks. In Catalonia, just 20 percent of the coast has enough space to settle down and continue to retreat before this sea rise caused by climate change. For another band, fifty-nine_per_cent of the coastal strip is urbanized in the first hundred_metres, a percentage that up to eighty-one_per_cent if you count the head of Creus and the delta of the Ebre. And that has to be reversed now. Regarding the beaches, the sixty-u_per_cent of the beaches in Catalonia have been affected by the disappearance of the dunes, and the thirty-per_cent have seen their habitats reduced to the length of the last century and these early years... And, as long as the beaches are regenerating alone, as long as they are cyclical, when tourism-oriented measures are taken, such as now moving the sorrow to the beaches, taking the position, etc., this, therefore, causes some gross ecosystem damage, and the backsliding of the coast already affects more than fifty per cent of the coast. And here we find examples across the country, such as the Long Plateau of Tarragona, which has undergone a progressive transformation to adapt to the needs of tourists and consumers, not the people who live there, and this has affected the ecosystem formed by dunes and, obviously, the biodiversity of the area. And the situation got worse, so, with this temporary Gloria, but also with these other meteorological phenomena coming in, of course. Do you know that the French State has compiled a list of 126 municipalities that have an obligation to adapt to coastal erosion for climate change and human pressure? These will be required to develop risk maps of coastal retreats in thirty-one hundred years, and these will serve as the basis for new land-use planning standards, leading to a ban on up-to-date construction. Don't you think I can take action like this? Obviously, not forcing the joints to do it, but working with the joints and doing it together so that they don't fall for it, so all the work on them. And you can tell me that in the past few years, it is true that urban management plans have been made – for example, the review of the unsustainable shores of the gyro coast – and that is true, but for us it has not been enough. Many more sectors have to be declassified and the municipalities that have been excluded from the PDU have to be integrated into the PDU. They change valiantly and decide that they respect, therefore, the needs of our towns and cities on the coast, as well as the environmental, natural, landscape and heritage values. Examples that this PDU was insufficient in finding Pals, we want to build two_ thousand habitats; Begur, Palafrugell, Palamós, Santa Cristina d'Aro, and, well, in many other municipalities we want to build hundreds of habitats, hotels, golf camps, even audits, etc. And all this has to be checked, and this PDU, so it has to include everything we can still save today. Also, therefore, there is the writing of the PDU that goes from Malgrat de Mar to Alcanar. And what we're asking is that this is work in such a way that we don't have a lot of municipal outages left, and that this tool actually serves to make a drastic change in the urban development of the coast, after decades that have transformed naturalized spaces into asphalt and totxana. We can plan and sort the territory in another way and stop, therefore, urbanization in flooded areas, with major pendants of the twenty_per_cent. There are already masses of urban areas located in forest areas and which have a great ecological importance. For what it does to infrastructure, CADS – this report we haven't talked about before – also tells us the need to shut down port expansions. In fact, it tells us that the model of tourism needs to be reformulated, since CADS considers that it is not sustainable to continue proposing port extensions especially when its objective is to increase the places for nautical, etc. Therefore, its own reports from the Generalitat indicate that the infrastructure model on the coast has to be shut down. Also, therefore, the infrastructure as the train passing through the Maresme. In fact, the Maresme is one of the most affected regions for the rise of sea level and climate change, and temporary winds and constant floods. And here's what it's like to plan a removal of infrastructure from the inside. While looking for alternatives – like, for example, the Masnou – because these infrastructures do not suffer when these meteorological phenomena pass, but do not follow the criteria of the ministry, which are always the same, to put up and down and make us spit, but to look for new, different formulas, where it is natural to renaturalize and act, which there are examples of other countries that can follow. Therefore, we understand that there is a lot of work to be done on this coast. And then, in the next five minutes, I keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.22.0	The words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.23.0	Thank you, President. Mr Cornellà, that's the third question I'm asking, and most of it... well, less Mr Ordeig, who was very clear that the question made me... well, they were commenting on the deputies that maybe it was an inquiry for some other counselor, right? In any case, it is true that sometimes it costs a lot..., and I understand that the Directorate-General for Institutional Relations and with Parliament, which is ultimately the one that distributes the questions, in this case... Often, with the titles of the interventions, it costs a lot to finish seeing what is the theme that is to be dealt with concretely. And also, in the air, say, of a certainly more productive debate, it would be good to have a little more information, often, on the concrete issues to be dealt with, because it would also allow us, which we have to defend these issues, to have more data and to be able to enter, say, into a deeper debate, right? Look, first of all, I think it's a very relevant inquiry. I agree very much with some of the questions that you have raised about our coastline, and from where we come and the story, we say, at these times, about the concrete situation that our coastline is facing today, and that it is obvious that we have been acting..., certainly not enough, but it has been acting for, somehow or otherwise, going, therefore, undermining a situation that has been produced for many years. And we've got work to do, obviously. And today I would like to talk about some of these instruments that we need to allow, in this sense. That said, too – and I think you know perfectly well – the powers the Generality has in the area of order and management of the coast, and that the Vice-President's Department exercises, are those that are, more than ever, quite scarce, and they are those that recognize us, in this case, the State and those that withdraw the royal decrees of transfers of 2007 and 2008. It is obvious that we would like to have more capacity to influence it, but while we are in this State, so unfortunately we can't. And, therefore, this is why some of us also ask for the full sovereignty of Catalonia. I'm telling you, in this sense, why, by passing on a little bit the skills that this coastal department has, huh? , and therefore those that depend on the autonomous community, on all of them together..., basically is one, that is authority in the area of protection servitude, one hundred_metres in non-urbanizable alone or twenty_metres in urban alone, with advance notice of the ministry. The band, in Catalonia, was handed over, in 2007 and 2008, the authorizations of seasonal uses to the beaches and the territorial sea, therefore, you serve for the season – I understand that this is "siringuitos" and these things that there are to the beaches–; the authorizations of activities in which it is given special circumstances of intensity, perilosity or profitability, and also of the authorizations of occupation of public domain, maritime land, with demountable installations or with movable goods, and finally also concessions demanials – mouths, restaurants, nautical clubs, promenades, boats, etc. These are the skills we have on our coast, sadly. We'd be happy to have many more. And so, in the first place, obviously, until we have full competence, until we remain independent, we can hardly face much more closely, and therefore, from the perspective of the Government of Catalonia, many of the questions that you have commented. What are we complaining about? So we claim, first of all, the constitution of the Bilateral State-Generality Commission, pending since 2008. Obviously, even the relations with the State are frozen in the hope that decisions and resignations are made in the matter, so to speak, of what political espionage has meant, but in any case, it is clear that these transfers have been pending for a long time. Also the signature of an agreement with the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Democratic Repte for the development of the study and the execution and management of works that are the competence of all two administrations. Without these transfers, it must be understood that the skills we have in the area of the coast are reduced or, in other words, purely administered. Yet, one of the skills that the State recognizes us is to develop and process territorial planning and use of the coast and beaches. And in what we do have competitions, I assure you, we are not in deep arms. Therefore, and by virtue of this prerogative, we have begun the development of the coastal protection and management plan and have the compromise that it will come into effect in this legislature. According to Law 8/2020, of protection and order of the coast, this plan is the basic instrument of order and integrated management of the land and sea area of the Catalan coast. Its scope includes the entire maritime public domain, including the territorial sea, but it can also establish determinations at least one kilometre of land. We have to conceive of it as a hybrid plan that has to develop order elements but also management, and that also has to draw a general strategy of action on the coast. This plan must contain, among others, the normative or action measures necessary for the preservation, integrity and recovery of geomorphology and ecosystems and coastal landscapes; the measures of adaptation of the coast to the effects of climate change according to the strategies that are being established. We need to hear it as a window of opportunity to collect and close suitable planning instruments. And today, how is this coastal protection plan? So, look, June we did four pre-participation sessions with locals, scientists, entities and economic actors. These sessions were used to talk about the abst of the plan and the information available. The year we see a process of participation open to everyone and, later, the public information subservient. During 2024 it should be approved by the Commission of Territories of Catalonia. Another instrument that we are deploying is the creation of the Conservatori del Litoral de Catalunya, a mandate of the Law 8/2020, of protection and order of the coast, which must serve for the public acquisition of land on the coast in order to protect it from urbanization and artificialization, but also to allow 'in a given management. This is an instrument that, once in a while, must be a very important instrument, in this sense, in some of the questions you were commenting on. The law establishes that the process of creation of the Conservatorio del Litoral de Catalunya must be participatory and must count with experts in environmental and territorial matters, entities of conservation of the natural environment and representatives of local authorities. For this reason, we are organizing some participation sessions that we will have during this month of July. As you may also recall, the generation of this year's Parliament approved Resolution 197/XIV, a moment to form during 2022, by means of the creation of a legal personality us or the inscription of the functions that belong to us afi, the Conservatori del Litoral de Catalunya, have clearly defined its structure and functions. If the coastal protection function is to be completed, it is clear that there are others in the Generality who have very similar functions and who have not felt duplicated structures. Therefore, we will complete the mandate and do it with the maximum efficiency. Meanwhile, the final solution is concrete: we have planned to make a management recommendation to Incasòl to define the priorities of intervention on the coast, conduct a real estate market study in priority areas and already acquire some farms. For all that I have exposed to you, we believe that the only solution is, obviously, the sovereignty of Catalonia. I know that some here will say: "Well, listen, this will never happen, won't it? Well, we'll keep working because that's the way it is, because that's the only way we can, obviously, protect our coastline and have the coastline we want. We have to have all the skills they have to deal with regulation and coastal management. We cannot deal with the demands and needs of the territory if we do not have more sovereignty. Managing the coast, managing coastal policies, cannot be made from six-cents_kilometres of distance, because six-cents_kilometres of distance must also manage the policies of the cantàbric coast, those of the south of the Mediterranean or those of the Costa Brava or the Delta. Each coast is different, each coast needs a zero kilometre policy, not a six-cent kilometre policy. Either we get the skills or it will be very difficult for you to have guarantees to protect our coastline. But while we're at it, we won't be stuck, as I said. We move the compromise with the territory, and that's why we work with instruments like the protection plan and the conservative's, and that's what we're working on. And, obviously, I will also go deeper into the field of PDUs, which, as you have said, is also another instrument that we can use in the protection measure of our coastline.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.24.0	Thank you. [[Some applause and rialles.]] In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.25.0	Thank you. Well, counselor, yes, you were right, on the competition issue. It is clear that this Parliament does not have all the skills that it should have and that we too, therefore, from our party, would like to have all of them, because that would mean that we would be independent. But today's reality is what it is, and we need to take all the measures we have at our doorstep to protect the coast. And we have few, but we have – we have talked about the PDU. But when we don't have them – which is true – what you can do, as in the government, is to "squeeze the government of the state to make it complete or to help us with our problems here in our country. And I'm saying, for example, so... with the Cubelles power plant, right? , a central in 1975 that changed the natural dynamics of the coast, generating effects on the coastal municipalities of Vilanova and La Geltrú, Cubelles, Cunit and Calafell, and that now seems that, after so many years, they want to dismantle. And what we're asking is, we're re-naturalizing this coast. That may be..., it's true that it's not our competence, but we can certainly press for these projects to come forward and not be like many others who have fallen from the country, who have fallen. Examples such as Creixell, where it has a natural interest, the Gorg, is currently protected. It's a space where we find a camp, an abandoned private property, and they're not complete, so, plans that had been prepared at state level to re-naturalize and return it to its original state of watermelons and dunes, and we have it totally abandoned. It is surprising that he is, therefore, protecting, and we find a campsite, a parking lot and a totally abandoned area. And it's true that we don't have any skills, but it's also true that we can squeeze these projects forward. We need to get old for the protection of this coast. And here we went, here was this young man: the Conservatori del Litoral. Clau, clau, why don't you go through all this, we're clear. For us, therefore, the creation of this conservative should be immediate, with the tourist tax money, a part of the tourist tax money. And you said they're not in their arms. Well, you know it's inconclusive, that; that the law was a one-year term and that's already passed. So, if not on this subject, they've been holding their arms, until now. We celebrate that you say that you are working there, and we hope that it will be in the very near future, because this tool will serve us, therefore, to act in Creixell, but we can also act in Platja d'Aro and in many other areas of our coast that are still not altered or that have been altered but that can renaturalize them. And that's why it's so important to create this Litoral Conservator, which, in fact, was so much to fight at the time, so, when it was approved, because it was attached to the law of order and protection of the coast. We also need to talk about other problems that we have and that the fact that this conservative is believed to be, therefore, can help us significantly. But there are other fears that they are not so, that they are not our skills, such as, for example, the actions that carry out dredging to Sitges every year at the Botiges platter to take the smile and put it to the Prat de Llobregat platters. And, as long as they're in good condition, the platters of the Llobregat, every year, now for inertia, already do these dredgings, even though the Assembly is against it. And that's an erosion of this platter. And the government, do you have competitions? Well, yes, because in some matters it can help, if not, the municipalities that stand against it and ask, so let's solve it. Remember, here, that some of the ports that have permissions have the obligation to do some dredging and are not fan, and they end up taking over this Administration or others share its costs, and that should not be the case either. That's to say, sometimes we use the fact that we have or don't have a little competition depending on what we're interested in at every moment. There's a lot of work to do. The Conservator of the Litoral is a tool that can allow us to conserve all these spaces, and not just to preserve them, but some that are already degraded, to return them to public hands and to re-naturalize them, as has been done to the Estartit, which has already been known, with some European foundations, to the Platera. That's possible, and that's what we're going to ask the next House's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.26.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, the deputy president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.27.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputy Cornellà... Miri, an anecdote from the last legislature. The one that was then the director general of Medi Ambient – we've known each other for years – said to me: "I bought a volcano. I say: "Ostres... This is one of those policies which has not been done until recently, or on the part of a government, there was, let us say, no policy of buying, in this case, farms with high environmental value and which, in certain cases, comes to terms with ownership at a reasonable price because it can pass to public ownership. It is the case of the volcano of Santa Margarida, in this case, of the Garrotxa or, for example, also the estate of the Vinyet of the plateau of Altafulla, very important to be one of the few non-urbanized beaches. These farms, obviously, have been able to buy themselves, in this case, with the CO2 fund that the Natural Heritage Fund has provided, and which must obviously be used to buy farms of environmental value and to make a policy in this sense as you commented, and that, obviously, we are absolutely in agreement. It is obvious, too, that here I do not want to forget that the plan of unsustainable soils in the area of the Costa Brava, for example – therefore, the verification of all those lands that are likely to be disqualified so that it is neither program nor built – is also a policy that had never been done before. And, in this sense, that's what this government is doing, too. And, therefore, from this perspective, urban management plans for the revision of unsustainable soils are another of the instruments we have to help improve on this line of coastal protection. I would like to remind you that, in this sense, the last year's genera approved the urban master plan for the revision of the unsustainable soils of the gyro coast, known as the "Brava Coast Protection Plan", which declassifies eighty-four areas, into fifty-six and protects 1,300 hectares. Most important: with this plan the construction of fifteen thousand dwellings was avoided. You will say to me: "No, it is not enough, it is not enough. We don't have to do any more, do we? But I think it's a measure that clearly indicates where we want to walk and how we obviously take the protection of the coast. At present we have also written the PDU corresponding to the area of the coast that runs from Malgrat de Mar to Alcanar, with the same objective, and therefore affects the length of 357 kilometres of the coast, with an area of the order of 1,300 kilometres and forty-one municipalities of the coast. And you know that we're all pushing this, and I have to say that the municipalities are accompanying us, there's no special kindness against it. We can find some exceptions in some municipalities, because it is also obvious that these municipalities also have something to say, but I think they understand that we have to move, obviously, to a country where protection from the environment, protection from our coastline, specifically decarbonization, the fight against climate change... they are clearly vectors, in this sense, so... they don't generate the debate that could be generated in the past. Which specific objects have these PDUs? Therefore, look, adapt the urban extension soils to the development strategies of the clusters and to the guidelines for the urban systems established for the existing partial territorial planning; adapt the urban extension soils to the principles of sustainable urban planning of continuity, compactness, complexity and preservation of soils with a slope equal to or greater than twenty_per_cent; adapt the delimitation of urban extension areas to the territorial protections in environmental matter; adapt the delimitation of urban extension areas to the existing determinations in the field of natural, technological and chemical hazards; establish arrangements to incorporate the landscape quality objectives into the landscape category of the communities within the territory of Barcelona. Finally, a whole series of measures going on the line we've been talking about now. In short, and as you can see, honourable Member, and despite the skills that we have in relation to the coast, in those aspects that we can deal with, regulate and work on, we have done and will continue to do so. And we do this with the three instruments that I detailed in this inquiry today: the coastal protection and management plan, the Conservatori del Litoral de Catalunya and the urban planning plans for the revision of unsustainable soils. With these tools, hoping that soon we can have independence and have them all, we can help improve the coast of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.28.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the international political situation and the right to self-determination]] [[300-00206/13]] We changed points and recovered one of the questions that we changed yesterday in the order of the day, the desire of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the international political situation and the right to self-determination, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And he has the word, to make the presentation to him, the French deputy of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.29.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... a previa, today, precisely, that we speak of civil rights, political rights, both in their individual and collective dimensions. In fact, we often repeat that our motto is: the right, all, for everyone and for everyone. And, therefore, they surprise a little that in some speeches we are discussing one of the essential democratic principles, which is the presumption of innocence. Remember that rights are not debated, they are not discussed; either they are recognized or they are violated, there is no longer any medium. So, all the support, President. And now, yes, we find ourselves here, counsel, another time, because we are right, because human rights define the game, the space of play where we want to do politics. And it is true that there is life outside this playground, but it is a bad democratic life. In fact, we insist that the democratic quality index of the world mark salvation, recognition, knowledge and promotion of human rights. And we are proud of it, because, at this time of the right to collect, Europe already has a new date of reference, which is October 19, 23, in which we will experience a new event in which is the recognition of the right to self-determination on the European continent. This is the date sorted for the Scottish Prime Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, to make a new reference to Scotland. When he communicated it, he said: "I was screened a year ago as Scottish Prime Minister because a majority of the Scottish Parliament is still betting on independence. That's why I'm proposing a new date. I repeat: "I was sorted a year ago as Scottish Prime Minister because a majority of the Scottish Parliament is still betting on independence. That's why I'm proposing a new date. Comparisons are always hateful, but there is a fact... The great difference between Catalonia and Scotland is the huge difference between the United Kingdom and Spain, a state with deep democratic tradition – the United Kingdom – and a state with deep democratic shortcomings – the Spanish State. In fact, the Scottish way for a long time was the perfect excuse that they wanted to put us in front of their noses to say why the U of October was not a very good way, because it had to be done, indeed, in agreement with the British Parliament, with the Westminster Parliament. But now she's shutting her head down, because this agreement doesn't exist. What does exist is the compromise with Scottish society, which has insisted on having independent majorities. In Scotland, all the way, they know that there will be real negotiation, because they have a democratic state of truth before them. They insist that they work for the agreement, but they do not make reference to the existence of this agreement. And this has a name, which is the exercise of the right to self-determination. In fact, they haven't discovered anything new. They asked a very simple question: "Do you want to be an independent state, yes or no? , which is the same question proposed by the government of President Puigdemont the U of October. And they do that because there's legislation in the United Kingdom that allows us to consult. Actually, it's a democratic normality. Probably one of the most centralist and Jacobin states on the European continent, such as the French, also makes it possible to consult; it did so four days ago with New Caledonia. I from Catalonia, and specifically from Junts per Catalunya, who are Europeans and who are Euro-demanding, want a strong Europe. And we understand that a strong Europe is a Europe where it must be Scotland. And, therefore, we will propose that this Parliament and the Government of Catalonia give their support to the Scottish Government in this consultation. And from Catalonia we also have a deep respect and thanks to the Kingdom Unit, who know that it will focus on this question for the democratic lives that are close and will be once again an example to Europe. I began by saying that there are two lives to solve political questions: the path of rights and twisted lives. Catalonia bets on the path of rights. It forms part of the democratic Europe, which is not yielding, which sees with concern the rise of the extreme right and the flaps of the continent's rights, and which sees with great concern, with great concern, the enlargement of the imperialist war that has place in Ukraine, a war that we do not have to get used to. Every death, every attack, must show us how it did on the first day. The worst thing in a war, in a conflict, is that it's a normality in the media. Don't get used to it. But time gives us reason. Many years ago, the Clinton Administration received a report from the Carnegie Foundation for the international pau, and there it was said that the progress and pau in the world were guaranteed with the recognition of the right to self-determination. A world of progress and in pau required, effectively, the recognition of this right. And we are, Catalonia is right next to history. Look, there was a vote yesterday in the European Parliament on the recognition of Kosovo and its self-determination process. And Catalonia was where he was playing, and Spain once did the ridiculous. Spain once again made a fool of itself and was left with the majority... most of the Spanish MEPs voted against it. I, in the usual suspicious – who were the PP, Ciutadans, Socialists and VOX – were also the common ones, inexplicably. There will also be the common ones, against Kosovo. That's why Catalonia isn't Spain either. Also for this Catalonia..., the majority of Catalan MEPs were among these nearly five hundred votes which, with the extreme majority, recognised this right of Kosovo to continue its process of European integration. We don't seem to be very far away, but we also hope that this future of rights, this future of peace, will come true. And it's about this geopolitical view of the world and the map of the world's rights that we want to ask you, advise you, and know, more than that, what paper and how the Government of Catalonia works to represent Catalonia in this new world that will dawn. And in this short space that I remain, since we are talking about human rights, civil rights and political rights, I cannot finish this intervention without mentioning, with concern, the salvation of two of the pots on which any democratic society stands, which are freedom of press and freedom of expression. We are concerned, and much..., and Together for Catalonia has been in the national and international spheres, in all the campaigns and in all the proposals that have been made, against the perilous judiciary that is patenting Julian Assange. And we won't get tired of saying, as many times as anyone else, "free Assange." And we are very concerned, and we want to repeat, the situation of Pablo González, a journalist and Basque politician detained since March 22 in Poland. We spoke to his lawyer today, and he told us that in these four months of detention, he continues without being able to communicate with the family, he continues without being able to communicate with his trusted lawyer. If anything has taught us Spanish repression is that solidarity does not go with political complicity, it goes with recognition of rights. And that in the 21st century Europe there are no situations that Julian Assange, with which Pablo González, is suffering, should make us think that something is not doing very well. And it is precisely to denounce this situation of repression that thirty days ago the activist Jorge Fernández takes a place of fame in Santa Perpètua de Mogoda. A well-founded and determined wave of fame, which is of justice, but which, from this Faristol, we solemnly ask of him that I have finished it. We have rejected your message and we will do..., so that this Parliament is in favour of freedom of expression, in favour of press freedom and in favour of the release of these two journalists. But, Jorge, please, stop this wave of fame; thirty days is mass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.30.0	The words of the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert, Ms. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.31.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. In response to all the questions raised to me by the honourable Member, I thought that this question would articulate through the situation of three themes, the rest of three themes of the international topicality that are relevant to our country. And these three themes are, in concrete terms, an issue that has not received sufficient attention from Catalonia, which is the paradigm shift that Abraham's agreements to the Middle East and the opportunities that they generate for Catalonia are supposed to be for the Mediterranean. A second issue, which we cannot forget in this case, is that the conflict in Ukraine is still hard and that it can maintain media attention and increase support for the country's institutions. The third issue has important implications for Catalonia and makes direct reference to what the Member was commenting on, which is the announcement of this second reference to independence in Scotland. I'll start with the first one. It is important to put the focus on an element that is a breach of hope in one of the most turbulent areas of the world and with the most conflicts in question, which is precisely the area of the Near East, of the Middle East. A question of a transcendental geopolitical importance: the normalization of diplomatic and commercial relations that have implied Abraham's accords is an issue that has not been discussed enough in Europe, and in concrete terms in our home. They were driven by the United States and served because Israel signed cooperation agreements with golf countries, with the United Arab Emirates, with Bahrain, with Sudan and Morocco, as it had previously done with Jordan and Egypt. Why is that important? It's important because it changes the trends in golf, and in fact, at the earliest I had occasion to participate in an event that was made in the French Senate, in which the actors who had participated directly and who were managing it today explained the implications and how all this changed the map of relationships and the opportunities that occur. Because we believe that the relationship between Israel and the Arab world can also help to facilitate the settlement of the conflict between Israel and Palestine and that Palestine can have a viable state. And also because we believe that this opens up a window of unimaginable opportunities just a few decades ago, like a new geopolitical element in the Mediterranean. Catalonia, to the other band of the blau sea, wants to be present and wants to connect with these new opportunities for the region. And, in fact, I am announcing that I will make an institutional foresight trip, past the summer, precisely in these countries. According to topicality, Ukraine. By tradition, history and will, like Europeans and Mediterraneans, Catalonia has always been and we have been admiring ourselves in Western countries, because we want a world more just, more peaceful, more free and more democratic. In fact, from the first moment we landed on the side of Ukraine, on the side of its independence and its rights. And the war we all know isn't over: we continue with our lives, and, at full daylight, follow the bombings to the civilian population. It has become a war that is a war of wear: a war of wear to the Russian army, of wear to the Ukrainian tropes, of wear to the civil society and also of wear to the Western public opinion. So that's all going on. Well, there's some kind of hope. « Everything changed, changed absolutely, said Irish poet William Yeats in his poem« Easter, 1916. Despite the destruction caused by the Easter Lift, it opened the future to the freedom of the Irish people. And, in this sense, Ukraine is also opening a door to freedom that has taken such an important decision since the European Union as to become a candidate country to join it. So things are also soft. As Mr Manuel Manonelles said, the director of the Centre d'Estudis de Temes Contemporanis, in an article to El Nacional, does not make mass..., said : "A cop staged the political support, close to it managed the reality. And that is also what is happening now with Ukraine, because we no longer only have war, but we have all the consequences that this has had for Europe: the increase in the cost of living, inflation, the concerns that naturally come with all this. In fact, it is often said that in international relations all politics is also domestic. And here in Catalonia it couldn't be any other way. The increase in the cost of living, aggravated by the war, the post-covid..., it's all gathered together. And the middle classes, the business structure and the association particularly suffer. This global crisis is compounded in our home by the chronic crisis suffered by Catalans of infra-financing and fiscal deficit. In this Parliament there has been no discussion of how to quantify it, and it has become clear that this is a debate that we can never get out of this hemisphere while it lasts. And here I would like to say that removing this weight without equivalents to Europe would not only allow us to invest more in Catalonia, it would not only allow us to have a better social protection network, but would also allow us to be in solidarity in conflicts like that of Ukraine and others that pass by the world. The third issue I wanted to comment on – and I'm getting right back to the first part of the question made to me by Mr De Dalmases – is: Listen and the fact that the right is put back to self-determination on the table. "We had a date," said the deputy, "October 19th of the year 23. The Minister of Scotland has already announced it. Therefore, a key date to hear not only the future policy of Scotland, but also that of the whole continent and that of the whole world, with such an important right. I want to express, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, two things. First, our respect for the majority exists in the Scottish Parliament which has made this decision. And, second of all, our respect for the democratic credentials of the United Kingdom. Both. It won't be easy or quick. In fact, reading the press from there, which I do very often, there are many uncertainties. Sometimes here is an analysis that will be easier, of the analysis that is done there. And that's one thing you see. So there are still many questions about the table. But what I do know, what I can tell you is that I am clear that in this case we will not see police harming civil society, the people; they will not blow up electoral colleges; no one will dissolve or intervene the Scottish Government or dissolve its Parliament, and the Council of Europe will not have to issue recommendations to review one year later. I assure you that won't happen. From the Principality we must take advantage of all the international trends and opportunities that lie on the table to defend the interests of Catalonia and to defend the rights that all Catalans have to decide on our future freedom. And some Members of this chamber are sure to be asking: why do you think of this Faristol and this Ple over the fears that pass into the world? So, when we talk about external issues and talk about NATO, we talk about Abraham's agreements, we talk about the invasion of Ukraine, and we talk about the relations between Scotland and the United Kingdom, we do precisely to settle doctrine, to lay down a basis of positions that in a future very clearly make it clear that Catalonia will do well and that we are prepared, well prepared, to act as a normal, modern and solvent state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.32.0	Let's move on to the seven-point order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the need to ensure citizen security, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need to ensure citizen safety]] [[302-00168/13]] And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.33.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, therefore, to excuse the absence of the Councillor of Interior and other members of his department, because the defence of this young man coincides in time with the meeting of the Security Board of the city of Barcelona. Therefore, the advisor is where he needs to be, attending this Security Board. Our motion is structured in two different blocks, which respond to the concrete contents of the inquiry that I made to the government last week. The first two points establish a position of Parliament to reaffirm the democratic compromise with the right of concentration and manifestation, guaranteeing the full enjoyment of the rights and freedoms of the citizens' assembly. We must condemn and condemn any form of violent action in the exercise of the rights and freedoms of citizens, and we recognize that the right of concentration and manifestation must always be exercised with scrupulous respect for democratic order. This is a democratic compromise that is required and unforgivable. The second block contained a follow-up of concrete petitions to the Government of the Generality, which went on to detail all of the follow-up. That old..., perhaps as usual, but that old because any concentration or manifestation that is developed in public space remains in conformity with democratic order and in a peaceful manner, respecting the rights and freedoms of all people who can see safe for this type of events. That it continues to age because police action always follows the principles of action laid down in the current legislation, maintaining at all times a correct and accurate treatment in relations with the citizens and is developed in accordance with the principles of congruence, opportunity and proportionality, maintaining a proactive attitude at the time of ensuring scrupulous respect for the rights of the citizens' joint. As usual the Squadron Mosses do, whenever they act to ensure citizen security and public order. We also plant the best of security in industrial polygons, to avoid the commission of crimes and concentrations to consume alcoholic beverages and which, sometimes, end up in acts of incisiveness. This proposal to improve security in industrial polygons is a consequence of the concern that many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with companies based in industrial polygons run from Catalonia, who fear to see'safe for the criminal activity of more or less organized groups. Many companies fear this, but there are those who have already been affected by the commission of crimes, as is the case, for example, of Movisa, at the Arte polygon, who suffered a thief, the electric cable, who, in addition to the direct economic damage, stopped his industrial activity for a few days, with the consequent loss of production. The last two points of the motion that we present today from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group answer the third of the main questions raised to our question: occupation and usurpation of habitats. A problem that is no less than Catalonia, and that worries a good part of the citizenry. It may seem anecdotal, but encanny there is something more than inflation because there are many Catalan families who will not go on vacation. The occupation of his habitation, the usurpation of his property. I repeat, it's not a minor issue. And the response of public administrations, of government authorities, does not effectively address this difficult problem. We therefore call for an action plan to be drawn up by the Government of the Generality against the occupation and usurpation of habitats that include the barrels and urbanisations where there is a greater risk of the action of criminal groups that have made the occupation a business, to the detriment of the right to the property of legitimate owners and that, in cases where the occupation is produced in public park habitats for social purposes, it affects very negatively the people who are expecting a social habitat that they need to face up to their situation of vulnerability. This is a scene where people who do things in accordance with the rules and regulations suffer. For them it is a mockery, because they see how waiting for the return can be mocked by the illegal and illegitimate action of those who make the occupation a modus vivendi. Finally, we urge the Government of the Generality to ask the Government of Spain to push urgently for a legislative reform that will enable the occupations to be dealt with quickly and effectively. Ask who has the opportunity to push a legislative reform through a bill that ends with apparent impunity for all of Spain's occupation mafias and, we can't forget, Catalonia too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.34.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Ramon Espadaler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.35.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are in front of a very similar young man who was questioned – in this sense absolutely nothing to say – but who has a certain dispersion. Right now the citizen's spokesman is making a point of the issues that are diverse and varied. It's not our style of talking about jobs, talking about right at the rally, talking about bottles... but in any case, like this is what's on the table, we've done some reviews and we're moving forward that we'll give support to the centre of the young man, and more when we've been accepted some of the reviews we've proposed, right? Having a little bit of each of the three themes, or before entering each of the three themes, there is a common denominator in the three, which is the reflection that we would like to share with the chamber: that the three themes, so much the manifestations with all the derivatives that may have public order, such as bottles, with everything that they may have, also, of..., of some derived in public order – and that sometimes they are more civic problems – as the subject, obviously, of occupations, allows an approximation from the strictly police perspective, but not all three can be approached exclusively with a police perspective. I say to focus on the issues. And sometimes you have the feeling that when you listen to the proposer, Ciutadans' proposal, there is only a police approach to things. And when one listens – and I'm sorry that the counselor doesn't follow, because more than justified: the Barcelona Security Board – the government seems to have all the other possible approaches, which is almost to obviate the police approach. Many moments of the government's speech, the councilman's speech, we've had this feeling. Listen, the public order does, but before the mediation is done... Yes, many things have to be done, but in any case, what cannot be done is "bypassing, not bearing in mind what is police responsibility in all three areas; which is of different nature, because we are before three phenomena absolutely different. For what he does in public order, we are essentially in agreement with what the motion says, and the only contribution we make is an element to a question that is also important in public order, before the demonstrations, while I think it is also even later, that is mediation. It won't solve everything, but it's an important piece; that I think the Squad Mousses, in this sense [[the Member of the European Parliament]] , those who belong – and you are –, therefore, to the Police Model Commission, is a recurring debate..., well, I would say that "a debate is not, that it is a topic assumed; therefore, it is the contribution that we make to it, underlining an aspect that seems important to us – and here we agree with a part of what the adviser said in his intervention – : the right to the demonstration, because it is a phonological right, obviously collected, to the Constitution, does not require authorization. And we would like to underline this: that the government authority that has to do it is to drive it, to make it possible. And the government and police authority that has to do is, when this overflows the public order, intervene there. But, in any case, to focus the issue well, it is not required. Yes, it would be interesting – and we will have time to talk about it in the Commission, in this sense, of the Police Model – more proactive on the part of the government authority. But well, we didn't get in, but let's focus on it. With regard to the bottles, we have simply not done anything in this sense. We'll vote for the point as proposed. There are, in many cases..., not the particular that you pointed out now, in many other cases – that I think it does not go to a particular case because it probably starts from this – so there is a component that sometimes has a little more to see with civic questions than not with strictly public questions. But in any case, as it has been written, we will support it. And the third issue, which is that of the..., or as much as you are dealing with, which is that of the occupations, we are radically in agreement that a defense must be made, in the march of the state of law, of which is property. And here we do some small adjustment, some small adjustment, more in the sense of saying, escort, than asking the central government for the legislative change, which we ask is: "Listen, we study together with the central government the legislative change, but we also put it in place, we add a point that I say: "Listen, why don't we also make a police plan? ........................................................................................................................................................................... Because the question that we ask ourselves, which leads us to do these things, is: if the same law that we have in Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities, in other autonomous communities, allows them to be proactive enough and solve the business issues more quickly, the problem may not be so much the law – that some adjustments can be made, and so we say: "Listen, let's study it. – as the application of this from the perspective, in this case, police, with the benevolence that all that is an occupation is a purely read aspect, not only in the same state of law, but also in the propensity of many entities and, moreover, with the interference of absolutely mafia groups that can fight with very firmness. And we want to leave it, therefore, with this clarity. This is the meaning of the papers; we thank those who have been accepted. With regard to this later point, we will abstain for the reasons I have explained and in the rest, so it will have our full support. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.36.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.37.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies... Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, from Junts to Catalunya we are not very happy, from the motion presented, even though it sweeps, as the fellow deputy said, a few concepts that we find might have to be concrete in another or perhaps in various other motions, because we are talking about security, human rights, botellots, otopes, social habitation, vulnerability... Deu-n'hi-do! They put it all in one. Before security and human rights, we all know that our legal order assigns to security all functions of preservation and guarantee of the full respect for the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, protecting the free exercise in defense of these and guaranteeing, at the same time, their security in their right to exercise them. Obviously, we agree. Can you agree with that? And, at the same time, it is more than obvious that we condemn all violent action that can be derived from any act of concentration or manifestation, come from where to come, it is already on the part of the demonstrators as on the part of the authorities that practice it. And so we have always defended it and so we will continue to defend it, as we did on October 1, 2017 and so many other days that preceded it and came back. Because the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in its Article 12, states: "Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association, at all levels, especially in the political, trade union and civic spheres. And in article 11, he points out: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression without interference from public authorities and without regard to borders. Therefore, it is clear that we reaffirm ourselves in the democratic compromise, in the right to concentration, in the right to demonstration, in the right to freedom of expression and in the right to decide freely and democratically who we want to be – I never doubt it – and above all peacefully, with respect and order on the part of everyone. This is a fundamental right which, from the point of view of the citizenry, we must exercise and which, as I have said, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra has the obligation to protect, and in no case limiting, restricting or conditioning the exercise of this fundamental right, but guaranteeing, I repeat, that it can exercise with the utmost security for everyone and, above all, acting with absolute political neutrality and impartiality, without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, opinion, gender, language, venity, birthplace or any other condition or personal or social circumstance, and always acting under the principles of integrity, proportionality, congruence and opportunity – is more than clear. With regard to security in terms of bottles, we cannot strictly link criminal activities with the bottle. It is obvious that these agglomerations pose a risk to the salvation of people who concentrate on them and often cause annoyance in their lives. But in these moments there is a series of actions in march from the Government of the Generality on the way to prevention and control, involving different services and units of the Squadron Mosses Cos, through the specific operating program of the night octurn. And on the occupation or usurpation of habitats, the Government of the Generalitat has it as a priority, as it links it to the policies that are coming to an end and that must guarantee the right to housing of all citizens, always thinking of protecting the most vulnerable and always thinking of protecting the small owners, who are the main victims. But, luckily or unfortunately, the final resolutions always end up with the jutjats, which they decide according to their interpretations. And finally, from Juntes per Catalunya we consider that we do not believe that the Government of Spain is pushing for legislative reform to respect the occupations in Catalonia. What we need is that Catalonia is definitely a free nation to be able to push from our home to what Catalan citizenship needs and convinces them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.38.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.39.0	Thank you, President. Note, the height difference between the previous carrier and myself. Look, she's a young man who's basically declarative, and she's very polite in writing, huh? I recognize them; in a few points and we could still say with little added value, but focusing some aspects. The question seems to me not so much in the writing, but in the interpretation of the writing, that is where we surely have very different views. I'll focus on the three thematic areas that the movement deals with, and on each of us going centering a mike the positioning. The first thing is... and it's the most important. That's four of the seven points we'll end up voting, plus two of the PSC's reviews. Four of the original seven points of the movement are centered on the right to manifestation and concentration. And there is a curiosity that I wanted to express to them, to which we have read and worked the motion, which is very curious: in each of the points that is proposed to vote, there is the following expression. In the first point, "conformity with the democratic order in force. In the second point, "with scrupulous respect for democratic order. In point 3a, "conformity with democratic order – another time. And in point 3.b, the principles of action provided for in the current legislation. He doesn't stop being curious, and he shows a point of this element there... very polite and very much looking for those points that... who's going to be against it? It's just he can't be against it. I think it will be a reason for most groups to vote in favour of it, to abstain, but voting against it has no sense. And it would just be missing that the Interior Department and the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad, don't do that. And as long as they do, and they know they do. Surely, the difference between you and us is in the interpretation; that is, you consider the citizens..., when they speak in these points of the right to manifestation and of affection to the citizenry, they speak of the citizens who are not mobilized. We are clear that when we talk about citizenship and the right to scrupulously the current legislation and, more importantly, the democratic order in force, it is not that it is manifest and especially that it is exercising a fundamental right, which is the right to manifestation. A difference that I'm sure is more interpretive. At times, we also have very clear that exercising this right of speech cannot be countered, as some want, to other rights of citizens who see themselves affected by mobilization. So much so, but manifestation and concentration are fundamental rights. And all of us who are participating in this debate, who are also participating in the Police Model Commission, we know; the lawyers have told us: this is a trap. The Administration may not authorize or not authorize an event. Above all, that's it. Then there is another element where we will have a different interpretation, and it is clear that it is in the interpretation of what the democratic mark represents or does not represent. For us the democratic framework..., and we will vote in favour of these points because for us too is the European convention of human rights. And that explains why this European convention on human rights has not been completed, for example, with the law on bites or, for example, with a very large number of international organisations respecting the violation of human rights. Every time we get out of the Spanish State, we find ourselves feeling respectfully. The other thematic area – and I'm fast, huh? – it was a small poti-poti between polygons, botellots, delinquency, we were young, etcetera, civic... I think we did a transaction exercise that tries to clarify: get out of the middle young, because we do not have to criminalize or stigmatize young people, and in different aspects. And I think with the proposal that at the end of the transaction we arrived... And thank the deputy on his own volition. And then there's the realm of occupations. And, president, I'm going to finish, but I want to focus on a little bit. It's funny, because you have two points. A first point that we will vote in favour of, because it distinguishes an element that is key and that we claim, that it is to distinguish what any mafia can be – that it is clear: continuance with that that takes advantage of the vulnerability of people–..., and we are not talking about the occupations of citizens, because we do not get out of it in a basic right, that is the right to housing. And that's what we all need to self-criticize. But then we get into the line of more legislation, harder, etcetera. And here we don't distinguish; at this point we won't do it, because we simplify a debate, because it is essential – it is essential – that we look at the perspective of the intersectionality of policies, and we can't play the argument of blaming people who live in very vulnerable situations and that among all folds we don't get out. And here we have to make self-criticism, we have to secure your right to habitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.40.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.41.0	Thank you, President. Mr Alonso, I have to admit that the title of your inquiry seemed to me to be suggestive and promising: « the need to guarantee public safety in Catalonia. But listening to him in the interpellation and, by the way, also seeing the motion, I have had the same feeling as when one goes to the cinema and sees a film that was announced with great expectations and that then turns out to be disappointing; disappointing because we thought they were coming to talk about citizen security and in the end their interpellation was practically reduced to talking about the cuts of Meridiana Avenue. They also added a couple of points in the motion on illegal occupation, which we will obviously vote in favour because it is an extremely – extremely – important issue and that we rightly questioned the Government of the Generalitat yesterday. But the traffic courts of the Meridiana, which are a regrettable episode that shows the sectarian policy of the Generalitat in favor of some exalted separatists who for two years have seized the avenue Meridiana with impunity, with traffic courts, with insults, with aggressions to neighbors, merchants, drivers and who, by the way, the Government of the Generalitat has forgiven them until the fines, are not really the main problem of the security suffered by Catalonia. I don't know if it is for Citizens, but of course for VOX to talk about the growing security problems that Catalans suffer by talking about the increase in rapes in Catalonia, where sexual assaults have increased by thirty_and_six_per_cent in Barcelona, only in the last year; a sixty_and_five_per_cent in the last decade. We must also talk about the theft of clocks in full daylight, mostly by illegal immigrants – it has been recognized by the Mossos d'Esquadra itself – ; the assaults and stabbings on the security guards of Renfe, Metro, Ferrocarrils, the Port of Barcelona ; the illegal occupations, which are being fired, and here you do mention a couple of points, but it is that the Government of the Generalitat puts a red carpet on the okupas. Talking about security in Catalonia goes hand in hand with dealing with all these forms of crime that I have just exposed and so many others, such as narcocrime or house theft, where we are also leaders. And Councilman Elena still has little shame in telling us this weekend, in the press, that the problem of Barcelona is of incisiveness, it is not of insecurity; as if the problem of Barcelona were the bastards who urinate in the Gothic quarter or the graffiti artists. Look, the Department of Interior doesn't know what to do to stop insecurity. It is outrageous and should blush the Home Secretary that the Generalitat and other administrations are content with making recommendations to the citizenry, because they are unable to guarantee security. Recommendations such as that the elderly – and this has recently also come out in the media – do not take out the pension at once from the ATM; recommendations to our young people to use safe routes to return home, because they cannot guarantee the safety of the city; recommendations that we carry the backpack hanging in front of the Barcelona metro, because they cannot face or do not want to face the problem of multi-recident mailers. This is the way the Government of the Generalitat has to combat insecurity in Catalonia. We believe that, in order to combat this, the first thing that needs to be done is to recognize the problem, to recognize this process of degradation and insecurity that Catalonia suffers from permissiveness with criminals and the lack of effective public policies against crime. Policies that go through zero tolerance with criminals; a policy that drives policy changes and legislative changes that end multi-recidence; a policy of strengthening the principle of authority of the Mossos, local police and security guards; policies to curb the so-called effect of illegal immigration and crime associated with it; and policies that also involve strengthening the means of cooperation with State security forces and bodies. In short... [[Fons's wishes.]] A little silence, please, from the bench. A little silence, yes; a little silence and respect. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I can tell because they recognize it until the Mosses. Have a little respect and don't make the time of the deputies we're in the rostrum, please. Have a little respect. [[Some applause.]] In short..., and I finish, Madam President. In short, the Government of the Generalitat is the main brake to put an end to the growing insecurity suffered by all Catalans. A government that denies the problem, that hides under euphemism a reality that is indisputable and that, by the way, is unable to articulate effective policies to fight crime and to guarantee citizen security. We will vote in favour of your motion, Mr Alonso, but it seems to us that this motion does not focus on issues that really affect the security of Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.42.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.43.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... so we've seen a new summer advertising space for private security companies installing alarms. In the end, we will have to ask the Bureau to regulate advertising in the parliamentary body. And now we've also seen the sad show or the sad screenplay, haven't we? And a while ago, so, the main group came out, too, to finish the game. In the end, this is the sense of motion and this is the sense with which we have interpreted it. There would be a few points that we could value, but we will not, precisely because we think there is no intention behind this motion to improve the security of Catalans and Catalans, but there is only one interest, and this is nothing more than to detail collective rights, to detail individual rights, to criminalize and pursue protest, to attack and carry against the weakest people. And all that to scratch four votes or, worse still, to defend the interests of the old. Regarding the occupation of habitats: do they want to end the occupation of habitats? Do you really want to put an end to housing occupations? So tomorrow you're guaranteeing the right to a decent habitat, because we haven't seen them do it; tomorrow we're ending the empty floors, because we haven't seen them propose any measure. That is why, in order to do this, we must confront those to whom they wish to defend. And that's why they don't ask. And here we're playing, and here we're playing with the production of insecurity and the production of por. Any 2019, Barcelona, data from the Assembly : 2,300 cases of occupation, 99.9_percent of cases of empty habitats, three of habitats that were being used – three. Here we focus the problem, here the posem; this is the main issue of the problem. That says a lot of what interest is and where the focus is. % of the property of these floors: large owners and face-to-face foundations. Who are they defending? Obviously, to this noranta_per_cent. [[Some applause.]] The other Members asked: "Why, if there is the same legislation, is there more work in Catalonia? Is this a security problem? No, it's not a safety issue. It is an obvious problem, that there are between 40,000 and 400,000 empty habitats in Catalonia, according to official data, all of them. So, thousands of drawings. In Catalonia there are thirty_percent of Catalans and Catalans under the umbrella of the poor and eleven_percent of workers who are poor, more than 300,000 people, and that is why there are occupations in Catalonia. And this is the problem in Catalonia; not a problem of security, but a problem of poverty. And they carry, in short, years and panys renting the face to the extreme right, renting the face to Spanishism, feeding the fascism in their Croatian against the Catalan language, in their Croatian against self-determination, in their Croatian against the Catalan Countries, against the individual rights, against the collective rights and against the right to protest. [[Some applause.]] And with that they don't have enough. Now they're putting the focus on the other paler stick on the far right; we're following sad tellers. Now we're going to attack, persecute and criminalize the poor. We see how they're going; we hope you're going to follow them this way. In any case, the work has already been done. Because today they're also talking about penal reforms. You want them to do criminal reform? We can accompany them through criminal reform. Two: the first, decriminalizing the occupation of habitats, and the second, penalizing speculation, penalizing usury, penalizing those who have immobile abandoned only to make themselves richer, those who expel veins and veins, those who destroy barrels and people, those who make the cities more insecure because they prevent access to a right as basic as the right to a decent habitat. Persecute those, penalize speculation, penalize usury. Here we accompany them, to the reform of the Criminal Code. Don't expect them to. We don't expect them to move a single word, because they don't care to pursue the mafias, that they're the backs and the bank, for which we've already paid and rescued the habitats that now, more than that, are speculating having them empty, preventing the right to a decent habitat from being guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.44.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.45.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, President. Well, Ciutadans presents us again with a motion on citizen security, a question that repeatedly makes a plere the other, and showing again, therefore, that we differ, diverge in the approach you have to security and many other questions. We basically have three big problems in this place that you present to us. The first is that our approach to democracy and to the rights of citizenship is radically opposed to its focus, to its approach. The second is that you greatly simplify the problems that you want to deal with in this case. And the third is that, by making this simplification, you do what you do is stigmatize certain social collections. In the great majority of points of this young man we will abstain. We will vote in favour of point 1, because, obviously, therefore, we condemn and reject all violence. And we will vote against those points that refer to occupations and usurpations. As was said, this young man had basically three blocks. The first refers more to the right to the demonstration, a right that you systematically compare with the right of other citizens, and they are an element of scrupulous respect for democratic order. And here's where we differ from his concept of democracy, because the way we hear democracy is not the same for you as it is for us. Among other things, because you, when talking about scrupulous respect for democratic order, are giving us scrupulous respect for the current legal order, among which there are laws for us which are markedly anti-democratic, such as the law on bites. On the other hand, for us democracy is precisely to be able to dispute the democratic order in force or the legal order in force. And it is from the right to dissent and from the right to dispute and from the right to civil disobedience that we also understand democracy. And that will do us, therefore, that we do not vote in favour of all those points in which you seem to want to defend the right to the demonstration, but that in literality, and above all in the interpretation that we know you do from your group, it is contrary to our perspective of the issue. Then there is another point that refers to industrial policies and winged rights and the increase in criminal activity in these areas. It is true that this is happening and that, therefore, there is a criminal increase in certain policies. But, as I said before, what we can't do is simplify, stigmatize young people, in this case, as those responsible for the criminal acts that are produced in polygons and other areas; among other things, because not all are eaten by young people who bottle, but at the same time, because, as I said – and I went to the last element – is the focus that you do. Beyond stigmatizing and simplifying, we believe that it is a night-time plan to intervene, to make public policies in a different way and to give alternatives to how young people can last their night-time. The sight you give is always punitive, always police persecution. We're betting on another type of response, and this brings me to the bottom, which is what you have to see with the occupations. We do not want to deny that there is a question we have to face, which is the usurpation of habitats. But at the same time, and as was said in the intervention that preceded me, the reality of the problem is very far, with the data, from where you place the focus. And in the same line, what we believe is that what we believe is not an urgent plan to pursue the occupation, but what we believe is an urgent plan to guarantee the right to housing. That's where we are, guaranteeing the right to housing, and that's not the focus you're making on this young man. That is why we will vote against these points, we will abstain from the others and, as I said, we will vote in favour of the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.46.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.47.0	Thank you, President. Well, we will support the motion as a whole. First of all, because in its wording, therefore, it seeks to make the right of demonstration compatible with the public security of all and, therefore, we share it, in the same way that it intends to make compatible this right of demonstration with the rights of those who do not manifest themselves, both in their mobility, in their physical integrity or in their properties, because I believe that this is an absolutely necessary measure, given the background we have experienced in Catalonia. On the other hand, it also delves into issues that we have proposed in other initiatives, such as the mediating role of the Mossos in these kinds of circumstances. We have never been either of idealizing the issue of mediation, which we believe is very useful, but which does not solve all the problems; but in these issues of demonstrations and make both rights compatible we do believe that mediation is a powerful mechanism that can offer many solutions. And finally, it also devotes a fundamental part to another matter to which we have devoted many of our initiatives, which is the fight against illegal occupation, which, as we have consistently repeated, Catalonia represents fifty_per_cent of all the illegal occupations of Spain. Well, we have also listened very carefully to the arguments of the rest of the political groups on this issue, have we not? With particular attention I have listened to Mr Pellicer, who has nailed the question, although the answer was absolutely wrong. It is very important to define what an empty property is. This exciting debate about what an empty real estate is we had in a previous legislature on account of the news that appeared when it became public that his partner Benet Salellas had eleven real estate properties. And Mr. Benet Salellas also hit the nail and said no, that in his case they could not be considered empty because, even though they were empty – I quote textually – he said that they all had a social use. Don't miss it. Of course, of course, we're always with the same thing. I mean, your properties are yours and ours are yours, too. So, it's a game we can't play. God said brothers, but not cousins. And then we're not going to enter eternally into a game where you can accumulate real estate and the one with a little apartment in Calafell, which has only opened it two and a half months, this one can be occupied. No, no, Therefore, we will not accept that premise and we do not share that argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.48.0	So, finally, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, Mr Matías Alonso once again holds the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.49.0	Thank you, President. Well, so, we've actually introduced a young man, not a government program. First of all, thank the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance and for the parliamentary groups of the Government, for the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. In total, six items, of which we did not accept three and traded one, rejecting the other two. Of the three papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units, we have accepted the first two, which are added by two separates to point 3 of our motion. These two sides that we incorporate into the final text of the motion are relevant and come to further improve our motion, for which we thank and accept them. With regard to the third of the papers submitted to us, we prefer to maintain the initial draft, because the request we make to the Government of the Generality, in this case, why ask the Government of Spain for the legislative impetus necessary to make rapid and effective front, to increase the number of occupations, these legislative changes that are slow, that must be made to face this problem, are the competence of the Government of Spain. In fact, I should have done that already, but it does not seem that I consider it a priority, for which we ask the Government of the Generality to ask the Government of Spain for this legislative initiative that we ourselves, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, have already repeatedly asked, also at the Congress of Deputies. For what it does to Esquerra and Junts, we did not accept the first one, because in reality the imperatience of the proposal does not deny in case you do not do what we ask you to do always and respect any concentration or manifestation. The second of the papers we accepted in order to avoid suspicions respect the professionalism and dedication of the Squadre Mosso Cos, which usually does its job as a horse and according to the best democratic standards. And the third of the papers we've processed so as to add to the indexes in the final draft, to more than the industrial polygons. I would therefore like to reiterate my thanks for the discussions and for taking the opportunity to ask for parliamentary support in conjunction with the motion put forward by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.50.0	So, over with the debate, I'm telling you, this young man's vote is gonna do this morning, once the split point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rights of persons exercising sexual work]] [[302-00169/13]] Let's move on to point 17, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the rights of persons exercising sexual work. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens and has the word, to make the presentation, Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.51.0	Well, thank you, President. I would like to say that I have enjoyed very much preparing this young man, because I have actually experienced what could be a cooperative and non-divisive Catalonia, a Catalonia of progress and not of process. It has been an exciting effort to unite and bring ideas of many people into such a delicate subject. I would especially like to thank the Council of Feminismes, of Esquerra Republicana, of Junts per Catalunya, of the commons and, at last, of the CUP, which have not submitted papers, but have shown great availability. Well, nothing's perfect, but you have to try to improve every day. In this Parliament there are people who call it frivolity to call things by their name. Well, I think it's frivolous to make back policies to the reality and suffering of people, as the Socialist Party does when, angry because its amendments to the law on sexual freedom are not passed in the Congress of Deputies, it goes and resurrects them in a law against prostitution or, rather, against prostitutes and other people living from sexual work, who have only convinced less imaginative conservatives and more rancid, those who vote against abortion and euthanasia. You know? Sometimes when no one likes your amendments and less than no one likes the people affected by them, it's something. Perhaps your amendments and your ideas are, therefore, frivolous, presumptuous and short-sighted. When so many people are against punishing prostitution or the management of voluntary and unforced prostitution, it is for something. When so many people warn you that care for the famous third party rental, be careful to close down no more any place where someone earns money with their own or other sexual work, because that can leave on the street, literally homeless many prostitutes who work in their house, them and their children, those who have them, man, logically, that is to say, "Oh, well, I had not fallen, you forgive, and change your mind, change even the law. But no, here for some it is not to fix anything, but to mark territory, to give lessons and not solutions. Look, I understand that everyone has a lot of attachment to their ideas, let's not say their prejudices. There are people who consider themselves very good, very feminist and so on, who are sincerely convinced that sex work is degrading. We spoke yesterday with the leader of my group, with Carlos Carrizosa. We were in Cornellà and we visited a bar, whose owner works from sun to sun. It was eleven o'clock in the night and it was still there, and the next day back to start at four o'clock in the morning. And this lady explained to us that she works so much – quotes – « not having a hard one, just to live and to keep you all, political gentlemen. It seems that his socialist colleagues in Cornellà do not cut their hair with fiscal pressure either. That is why you have this frankly pessimistic and even degrading view of the profession of politician. For yet, he treated us with immense affection and putting true dedication in his task, I would almost tell you that in his vocation of service. That is exactly what we have to do: vocation of service; less trouble and more trouble. Conxa Borrell, of the union Others – welcome, Conxa, at your home, to the Parliament of Catalonia –, told me that she only asks for that. For example, don't be taught sexist violence by those who didn't believe it or help her when her ex-husband sexually abused her and, instead, try to convince her now to change her office to stop being a victim. She, no matter what, doesn't feel victimized by her clients. If you feel a victim of a frivolous and indecent policy when they try to illegalize the union or when they promise aid and subsidies only to sex workers who claim to be victims of trafficking. To others, no water; no minimum social coverage, no maternal discharge..., na de na. The objective of such a thing is as obvious as gross: to falsify statistics, to make it look like it deals with what is dealt with and what is not. And yet, if at least then you take it seriously to end the trade... but with such a rude approach and, if I may, so nun-in-law to the problem, what are you going to fix? For all this, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, who, standing by their obviouss and for moments and for all their strept differences with us on other issues, have put their hands on the needle, with much interest, to seek effective consensus on this issue, which requires a lot of sensitivity and not a little courage. The main idea of our inquiry was to be ruthless with the traffic of people, but at the same time to recognize the existence of a voluntary sex work, which is urgent regular, precisely to prevent terrorist abuses. We are very happy to have experienced an authentic brainstorming of emenes, explore a little, among all, all the possibilities. As I said, our model of reference, Ciutadans, is New Zealand. The young man we're bringing here today would be – let's hope it will be – a point [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of departure – I finish, president – and no arrival to absolve this model. But if it is approved – let us hope that with a broad and generous support from all the groups that have participated in it – we will be closer to, much closer to, fighting against an infamous stigma, detecting and correcting situations of precariousness and administrative irregularity where it is possible to destroy the lives of many people, to sow a much more adult, liberal and modern view of these issues to the Catalan society and to ensure that the example escapes to all Spain, with luck.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.52.0	In the defence round of the papers presented, the first word is Mrs Susana Segòvia, Member of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomão.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.53.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... Trade Union Representative Others, welcome to Parliament. It is also a pleasure to open this house to all those people who are here to defend their rights. And that's what organized sex workers are doing, too. Because this is a debate that, as you know, is one of these great debates that generate polarization, controversy and is also being used to undermine what is the force of feminist movement; one of those debates that is more feminist or less feminist, that defends or does not defend sex workers, that is more or less abolitionist. And we have this huge tendency, which we have seen in other themes too, to put the labels of more or less feminism in function of what we think about other women. In addition, women who in many cases are in a situation of much more vulnerability, much more victimization and much more need for support. And in this case, it's one of the things we do, we talk on behalf of sex workers and prostitutes when we don't listen to sex workers and prostitutes. And one of the main problems in this debate is not to listen to them, not to give them this recognition of their ability to speak, to decide, to influence, to make politics, to organize and to be proposals on how they want to respond to their different needs and their need, above all, to have more rights, more social rights, more economic rights and more women's rights. If we listen to sex workers, instead of always putting them at the peck and always putting them in the center of the attacks, instead of saying... To defend them, what we end up doing is putting them in a more vulnerable situation. If we listen to them, we'll see that they have very clear requests. And one of the first is to have more social protection. Rights for all, for everyone, for all women. And sex workers have the right– and that's what this young man actually does, that we are grateful to City for bringing him to the debate in Parliament and allowing him to enrich and improve it among the different groups that we have participated in–..., right to have access to guaranteed citizenship income in Catalonia; right to have access to healthcare coverage; above all, right to have access to a regular administrative situation. Because, I know it's hard, it's very hypocritical to say that there will be answers and that it wants to protect the women who engage in prostitution, if we don't attack a foreign law that condemns them to prostitution, in many cases, because there is no alternative for these women. [[Greetings.]] There have been studies that say that practically a seventy-six per cent of the women who are practicing prostitution do so because they do not have another alternative, because, as they do not have some papers, they cannot lodge a habitation, they cannot have access to sanitation and, indeed, they cannot have any recourse to make another alternative, if they want and need to leave prostitution. So, either we take this as the first point or we don't advance in anything. Advancing proposals of law that the only one they do is penalize and prevent their main source of entry, when there are often no others, without offering these alternatives is to condemn them to more vulnerability, to more precariousness and to expose them more to intermediaries that can get them to exploit even more because they have a situation of more vulnerability. And this is a reflection that I think we all need to put forward. We guarantee rights, we don't chase. And once we guarantee right, the women themselves will decide which is their choice. But if the alternatives that we present to you, some do not include the regularization of papers... A trans, racialized, migrant woman, in a situation of administrative irregularity will probably have very few opportunities to get basic entries to make life, if we do not start to transform her situation of administrative irregularity. But it's that, besides, if what we offer them are always alternatives to precaritated, feminine jobs..., "leave prostitution and take a beauty course or a wig class, don't you? Because that's what it looks like we think they can only do the women who are prostitutes. And not because it's hard to be an aestheticist or a hairdresser, obviously, but why can't we offer them a computer and programmer course, as is the Barcelona Assembly, with many women in a precarious situation with the women's tech program? Therefore, let us assume from now on that the defence of more rights for sex workers is not, in any case, a defence of trafficking and sexual exploitation. We're clearly distinguishing him. We're making a law to deal with trafficking. We make a law to address the exploitation of people; not just sexual, there are many other types of exploitation of people. But let's not embarrass the debate by putting sexual workers in the centre and in the focus, that what they are asking for is more guarantees and more rights and being able to have an active and political role in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.54.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Ester Vallès has the following words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.55.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. I want to take advantage of this intervention to give my full support to the President for the unjust and anti-democratic situation she is patenting; also to the Bureau, because she is old and because she causes the sovereignty of the people to remain in the hands of the people. Coming into the matter, I also want to thank Congresswoman Anna Grau for the motion she is presenting to us today. There's always a good feeling about a subject as sensitive and controversial as prostitution and sexual work. It is obvious that addressing such a complex issue requires actively listening to the different currents that exist within the feminist movement. We have abolitionists, prohibitionists, regulationists, illegalists, among others. Each of these currents interprets and proposes solutions to the phenomenon of sexual work, but in case they agree: whatever their position is, what everyone has in common is the rebuffing of human beings to sexual exploitation. Because when a person migrated up to our deceptive, manipulated home, he finds himself in an irregular situation that leads him, in many cases, to practice prostitution, because he cannot access the papers in order to be able to work in a formal working world. And that makes it easy, as the companies have said, for the mafias to exploit them. For all this, we believe that the derogation from the foreign law would imply a much-needed commitment to speed up the procedures for obtaining residence and work permits from these victims of trafficking in human beings. The complexity of the prostitution situation is enormous. For a band, we can find people who express their willingness to engage in prostitution. On the other hand, we can find the people who, for their situation, are seen in the need to exercise it. And finally, people who are victims of a crime of sexual exploitation. What is clear is that, whatever your condition is, you must ensure that everyone – everyone – has access to their labour and social rights, such as salvation now. Because without freedom or rights we will condemn these people to a precarious and completely unjust situation. In addition, if the sex worker is the victim of a crime of sexual exploitation, it is the responsibility of guaranteeing access to the network of resources of male rape. And let's not be fooled, prostitution is a question of gender. The prostitutes are mostly women. And, for the user, no one escapes that men are a high percentage of the consumers of this prostitution, regardless of the gender or sexual orientation of the sex worker. We find ourselves before a fact that exists, that we see day by day, that I move a lot of money with supply and demand. We take a moment to evaluate the offer, and what is the point of reference behind this: sexual exploitation. From Junts to Catalunya, we believe that sexual exploitation is a sacre that can be removed from society. We cannot allow people, mostly women, to be victims of trafficking in persons to engage in prostitution. It's the use of his body, on the part of the mafias, to pull out the economic income. It's using the prostitute as a tool, as an inhuman object. As I said, it is a situation that, unfortunately, many people suffer in the hands of the mafias who take advantage of their irregular situation, which takes them on a road without exit that can be abolished. And I won't say anything that we don't all know. This is a good situation from a legal void. Navigate to the law. You know, we've known him for a long time. In short, then, let's look for what can generate more consensus, a starting point where everyone should feel comfortable, which is to age for the eradication of sexual exploitation and for the rights and well-being of sex workers. And I'm endorsing the acceptance of most of the items that we've presented, that have wanted to age and put at the center these rights of people who exercise sex work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.56.0	And, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.57.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Welcome also to the Conxa, of the union Others. We were, I think we should start with the principle, because every time there's a debate about prostitution, we tend to talk about whites and blacks, don't we? , and go to the extremities. And I think that, in this case, the first one we have to do before we start, which, in fact, has already been done in previous interventions by my companies, is to make a distinction to be rigorous. Sexual work is not trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. I believe that from here we can start the debate and we can begin to hear 'us, because when in the debate, within the feminist movement and outside the feminist movement, we defend regulatory positions or prodrets, we are not talking in case of forced prostitution or trafficking. I think this is important, because many times..., I think this is the least; this is the least we need to share in order to have a rigorous debate, because, if not, we end up throwing the dishes at each other, when you don't have any sense, because that doesn't go from where you have the most important feminist book and the purest. We're talking about a guarantee of rights. Here we are no longer talking about what it looks like to every one of us who has women who engage in prostitution. It's not important, that. No one cares what we think of each other. And, as in so many other debates, there are two paths. There is the path of persecution, the path of prohibition and moralism, which are those debates in which we are interested in the individual opinion that other women engage in prostitution. And the alternate path, which is the approach to reality with the tools we have; and that is a slower path and that is a full path of shades, full of grays, more complex to approach, than perhaps..., I think Congresswoman Grau has staged it very well, which is: what is this, to pursue prostitution or to pursue whores? What was that about, talking about pimping, talking about mafias or chasing whores and pushing them around? And I can't imagine – because many of the people that we are here have come with a vocation to improve the living conditions of many people, of all people, of talking about equal policies – that no public policy that we do from this Parliament or from any other chamber is going to go further than the margin in which they are already situated. And, therefore, I can't imagine that a debate about prostitution that takes people away from it, I can't imagine that there are people in the public service who are satisfied with these proposals such as, for example, the third rental. We can't deny them rights, we can't deny them the regularization of their administrative situation, we can't deny them labor rights, decent living conditions, and we can't deny them the negotiation, agency and decision-making skills. Because when we talk about chasing and banning prostitution, we're actually not abolishing anything, the only thing we're doing is plastering sex work. And every time we illegalize, we persecute and, in the name of abolition, we raze the whores in the dark of having to do the sex work from underground, the only thing we're doing is to get them into a situation of maximum vulnerability. Therefore, wanting to abolish without touching the public structural policies that take advantage of these situations of the mafias, seems surrealist. At the end of the day, it is not about the law of foreign affairs, but I think that in the debate it will come out all the way, because it is undeniable that there is no debate about prostitution, about abolitionism, about prodresses, about regulationists, about which model we have or do not have, without talking about the law of foreign affairs. Therefore, for women who are engaged in sexual work and who do not want, agree, housing policies or employment policies or accompanying policies. Alternatives. If we are already aware, that many women engage in prostitution, like so many other jobs they do not want to do, because they do not have an alternative. So, public policies, social listening. But the criminalization and persecution of whores is anti-feminist; to spare them is anti-feminist; the foreign law is not only anti-feminist, but also racist and classist, and the reality of whores, to see, deny it, to see that abolitionism is a magic button is naive and therefore serves no one, neither whores nor anyone. And, finally, it's anti-feminist to protect women, to protect lives. Because we talk here, don't we? We're talking about prostitution all day, but we want to silence his life and his own witnesses. Therefore, chase whores, let's say no; unprotect whores, let's say no; to traffic, obviously, let's say no, and all for whores, but without whores, let's say no too. In this debate, we are not talking about which model we are pursuing. In fact, in the last few moments, the Member of Parliament, I think, has prioritized that we can talk about which is the Catalan mark on prostitution and not which is the model of each of the parliamentary groups. And, therefore, today we will be aware that there is a consensus in Catalonia, as I say, that it is not to unprotect women who are already on the margins. I, therefore, speak of a guarantee of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.58.0	So after the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has, in the first place, the word the deputy Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Socialist Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.59.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. My group is and will always be on the side of all women – of all. And it is for this reason that we cannot accept that there are a few submissives to a patriarchal rape such as the prostitution system. As you know, our group is in favour of abolition, which certainly has nothing to do with prohibition. Prohibition is a moralistic and reactionary stance that punishes women who are in a situation of prostitution, while abolition is a progressive and feminist stance that punishes pimps and consumers of prostitution, while providing resources to women. Why are we abolitionists? For three reasons. First, because prostitution is a founding institution of patriarchy. Second, because it's an institution that makes it difficult to disappear from a hegemonic masculinity. And third, because feminism has always been abolitionist. Remember that feminism develops simultaneously with the abolition of slavery. Recordin the declaration of Seneca Falls; recordin, also, Rosa Luxembourg; recordin Frederica Montseny; recordin the free women of the CNT; recordin the anarchist Emma Goldman. And how did we get to this debate that up until a few years ago there wasn't even between the lefts? Because they fully understand liberalism, which considers the market to be the center of the world and which considers that everything can be sold and bought, has an interest in regulating it. But the left? The left, which is against extractive activities of the earth, is in favor of extractive activities of the body of women, still bellys of lloger, still prostitution, still pornography? In any case, to get to a debate like this one, it's kind of a story like naturalization. Companies produce reports about themselves and these reports have a function, which is that individuals accept social order. And, besides, these reports come from the needs and interests of the elites. There are various formulas that apply together so that the report is accepted. One, for example, is to normalize it through communication media, through films, through series and through advertising. Another is using euphemisms that make the most bearable reality: talking about sex work in prostitution accounts, talking about surrogate motherhood in logger accounts. The other day, it was in the paper that educators in Texas proposed to change « slavery for the involuntary relocation of African people. We don't like reality and we see it changing language. Another way to normalize it is to get to our creatures. If we induce them to believe that they are normal prostitutional behaviors, they end up thinking that they are. For example, the OnlyFans app. A girl locked in a room with her mobile phone – all her babies, all her girls have mobile phones, MPs and MPs – gets more and more money based on doing things like showing up in bras or shoes. Even though, of course, he gets more money than more things he does; that is, the demand from those who look increased in intensity. And what do you say to me about the phenomenon of sugar daddy, which starts to be common in our classrooms and consists of having a friend, a big man who pays for whims? And it's good that you're making the idea that your girls could engage in prostitution, because what would be a chilling frivolity is that you think that sex work, which you say, is just for the others. Whether we are here as deputies or as midwives or as teachers, and who, in turn, are the impoverished and migrating women who are to be engaged in prostitution. [[Greetings.]] We would agree to listen in your parliamentary office to people who say that they are voluntarily engaged in prostitution, but we would also like to hear the women you do not usually see: those who are unfortunately in prostitution, even though they have voluntarily agreed to it. With most of them not being able to speak in public, we already propose to quote, for example, Amelia Tiganus and Alika Kinan. And we ask you, Members and Members, not to vote against this time, as you have done other times. And that's what it's about in this room, and today with this young man, it's to determine which society we want: we want a society where there's a reserve of women available for the whims of men, for the ritual of masculinity, because men can endure acts of rape quickly or not on pornographic websites? My group will vote against this motion, except point 6, which refers to combating exploitation and trafficking in persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.60.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Lora has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.61.0	Well, good morning. Thank you. Well, prostitution tempts against the freedom and dignity of the person who is a prostitute. Today the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans asks the chamber to recognize the reality of sexual work, free work and volunteers of people exercising sexual work. What is the degree of freedom of a person who, in a context of extreme poverty, social exclusion and rape, engages in prostitution? And it is that the consent of the will cannot be caused by alien force to the same will, as, for example, happens with the traffic of persons forced to practice prostitution or with the pressure that it is exercised on a person with false promises of a life without fault, that end up restricting his consent. How far is the decision to engage in prostitution under these circumstances? Prostitution is evil, neither ethically nor morally good. And that's something we all know, our consciousness tells us. But we are not here to be the conscience of the citizens nor to tell them how to live or how to think. We are here to age for their welfare; to offer and guarantee resources, media and help them so that they take their decisions in full freedom; to guarantee their dignity as people they are; so that they do not take decisions under the pressure of terrible circumstances, as are the circumstances of most people who end up practicing prostitution. But these means and resources don't go through to encourage prostitution; these means and resources go through because people who are prostitutes don't have to do it. On June 7, at the Congress of Deputies, the Socialist Party presented a bill on prostitution and pimping. A proposal, if I may, amorphous, where VOX has already announced the presentation of papers. Because, in this sense, the Socialist Party fails to tighten the penises, especially when the victims are minors, they continue to protect the offender in excess and remain on the surface of the problem and do not go into the causes that cause it; the same game that encourages illegal immigration, which brings thousands of women to sexual exploitation, the same game that does not fight the mafia of trafficking in persons and the same game that has used workers' money to pay in brothels and that has not yet asked for forgiveness. [[Greetings.]] And in this sense we are very clear: to punish the crime of trafficking people with all the toughness and force of the law. It's enough to end pimping and protect the women and also the men of this brute business that trades with people, and protect the minors harder, because a minor prostitute is a minor raped. And that's to punish him harder. But this fight we are aware that it must also be accompanied by other struggles, because it must go to the origin of the problem, where on many occasions there are drugs, there is poverty, there is social exclusion and there is family breakdown. And, in this sense, there is a need for an integral plan that I completely enough and it is not left on the surface of the problem. It's like stopping illegal immigration and fighting the mafias of human trafficking. And, for the record, I'd really like to move a reflection to the chamber. And it's that prostitution and trafficking in people are two phenomena that are very close together and that affect mostly people who are in a situation of extreme vulnerability. And, in this sense, we do want to preach to them, from the Parliamentary Group of VOX, that before proposing prostitution as a labor activity and a right, it is something that they should think responsibly, because sex can't and shouldn't be a business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.62.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.63.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, and also members of workers' unions who accompany us today... well, sex work is work. Talking about sex work in terms of work implies, first of all, recognizing that it is always a voluntary intercanvi of sexual services for money; it involves distinguishing between prostitution and trafficking, and this is very important, especially from a feminist and anti-capitalist practice. Because, if it's true that there are practices in sexual work that are reproduced in capitalism, this reproduction is not in the sexual work itself, but in the exploitative mechanism that is intrinsic to capitalism. We felt in this chamber as the abolitionist position defense that is not buying the service, but the body. And this statement, to the band of being dangerous because it contributes to the stigma' whore, of which we will speak the most forward, is ebbed because it obvious that the capitalist practice of exploiting the cosmos, disguised as the performance of services, is also reproduced in other areas of work – agricultural work or domestic work, among others, without going any further. Therefore, when the temporary are exploited, when the workers of the home are exploited or when the workers of the cures are exploited, there is no demand for the abolition of the agricultural and the work of the home or the work of the cures; what is demanded is the guarantee of rights. And, therefore, against which to fight is against exploitation. And to abolish exploitation means abolishing capitalism and, with it, the need for money to live. Meanwhile, what it takes is to guarantee the rights of workers, of all workers. Why, why is it claimed to abolish sex work? What's the difference in sex work from the rest of the money swaps? Isn't that hypocrisy? Don't you have to be the Jewish Christian substratum of this hegemonic and white feminism that defends a pure and sacralty of the female body? Isn't it the whiteness of your feminism that requires this ontological security of others to maintain your superiority? Because it is completely incongruent that a movement that says that defends the struggle for social justice exclosures from access to basic rights of life worthy of a concrete collection. Or is it that feminism does not fight for social justice? The feminism that excludes and conditions access to the rights is not feminist, deputy Lienas, but supremacy, because sex work is feminist struggle. Self-organized sex workers, unions, who claim is right to work, protection against rape and sexual freedom. Aren't these feminist claims? Or is it that sexual freedom is only for a few and determined conditions? Abolitionism does not defend the rights of sex workers; it keeps them as passive subject as charity. They are oblivious to "my body, my decision, when recognizing the sexual work could do, as we have already felt in previous interventions, that the stigma" whore, to which they contribute so much, skittish them, because it does not alter their pretensely model life that only supports capitalism and, therefore, exploits it. Because that's what it's about, in the end, to move a few steps along the coast of the majority. And that's what defends abolitionism. Now, we're not fooling ourselves either, thinking there's no one who wants to profit from sex work. Obviously, there are pimps, exploiters and abusers who are behind the regulation of sex work to defend their butxaca and not workers' rights, like many other feminized and racialized sectors. And that's what I need to fight, because that's where we don't have to deal with it. We, therefore, make efforts to legislate on exploitation and trafficking and stop chasing workers. Because sex workers are social agents of the margins, they are examples of venous self-organisation, examples of self-management before capital, examples of sexual freedom before patriarchal, and what they claim is respect for labor rights and protection against violence; violence to which abolitionist discourses contribute, misogynistic, patriarchal and racist violence, which is what creates the stigma's whore. And the stigma of whore causes sex workers to suffer institutional, legal and social violence. It is materialistic in denunciations, withdrawals from custody, physical and verbal assaults, expulsion from public space, defencelessness in the face of security, persecution and assimilation for social services. And I don't see that your feminism calls for the guarantee of rights to life worthy – and I ended up, president – of these workers. I can't see what I'm calling to repeal the foreign law. I can't see what I'm calling to put a stop to the misdemeanours. I can't see that I'm calling against the DGAIA, which withdraws the custody of sex workers. They don't even mention it. Abolitionism delayed them, charity delayed them, white feminism delayed them. I leave puritanism, punitiveism, selfishness and hypocrisy to the gang. I stop playing the game of capitalism and patriarchy. Stop chasing prostitutes, and defend workers' rights. We're fighting exploitation, sexual exploitation, and anyone else, because sexual work is work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.64.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.65.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, before assessing the motion, I cannot help but make a reference to the speech we have just heard from Mrs Changue, because it is a real mine, but I will only make reference to one point. He has pointed out textually – and has also repeated it on several occasions – that it is capitalism that provokes prostitution and that, therefore, if capitalism ends, prostitution ends and, consequently, it is capitalism that must be abolished, because it is known to all that there are no prostitutes in Cuba, right? Of course, it's just that you say a few things, which, in the end, you should review. Well, given this consideration and for getting into the matter already, the first thing is if we start from the sincere conviction that everyone, with the different positions he has here, does so with the best of wills. And, of course, there are very different positions, but we do not attribute to anyone the idea that he wants to harm a particular group. I, for example, am convinced that the people who defend abolition here, beyond whether it is a question or not utopian, which would be a debate, is a noble ideal to pursue, and therefore absolute respect for the people who defend this issue and who have just done so in Parliament. But the problem is the management of the meanwhile. Always, when we talk about an ideal, in the end it is: and in the meantime, what? And everybody thinks too many times about utopias and they forget what they have to do this afternoon to improve people's lives, don't they? So, in that sense, what we believe is that, in the meantime and it does not come to an ideal, what belongs to us is to regulate a binomial, which is prohibition and regulation. What is regulated and what is pursued? What is being pursued seems quite obvious and I think we all share it – there may be some nuances –: it is clear that human trafficking, exploitation, mafia; that is what must be pursued. What Should Be Regular? There are things that must be regulated, because they exist, and as long as they exist and there is no mechanism to avoid them immediately, we must ensure that they can be developed in the best possible conditions of dignity, health, protection, etc.. In this respect, we will vote in favour of seven of the eight points, except one, which refers to the acceleration of administrative procedures by a particular group, which always raises a problem and there are past experiences that show it, and that is the door to mass fraud, is it not? And then, that's that..., that point, which is point number 8, we would have to write the..., well, it's very complicated to write, because, I insist, when these things are regulated ex-professional for a particular collective, it ends up being the gateway to fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.66.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.67.0	Thank you, President. Thank you to all groups too. Today we have heard remarkable speeches here, speeches of great height on this subject, of great courage. Mrs Lienas, liberalism has gone far beyond the economy; in fact, we do not think that everything is bought and everything is seen, precisely we think that personal freedom, individual freedom, is neither bought nor come nor must be subject to hypocrisy. And if he cares so much about patriarchy and the elites, I speak to the elites of his party, who use the servants you here blasmen. As my company Nacho Martín Blanco says, "some people lack puritanism and lack street. That said, well, I would like to highlight this, that we have accepted many issues; we have not traded with the commons and with Esquerra and with Juntes for Catalonia. The concern expressed by the PP lord... it is true that in one of the points that we have not just..., because some groups directly called for the repeal of the foreign law. We do not seem to be going so far, but yes, that is why we preferred an interim formula, which was to urge the Government of Spain to expedite the procedures for obtaining residence permits, work permits, victims of trafficking in human beings. Finally, as I said, this young man pretends to be a starting point, not a finishing point, both of the model we propose as an important consensus to Catalan society, which can be taken forward in this topic and give an example to all of Spain, giving an example to all of Spanish politics. And, well, let's hope that this is the result of the vote and that today I begin a new stage of cooperation and less hypocrisy. Thank you, Conxa... for giving the impulse and making the possible; thank you for your courage. Thank you, Naomi of the Street, for always being there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.68.0	So, the debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to produce a shot at the end of the next order of the day, the next question to the government about the momentum of the LGTBI policies, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the pulse of LGBTI policies]] [[302-00174/13]] And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.69.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, another time. Well, so we did an inquiry, a week ago, about the importance of the approach and the design of public policies LGTBI, because we already know that, without a clear leadership, specific policies such as equality, like LGTBI, like anti-racists, always fall for all two bands and are hopeless. We already know that policies, when we put the cross-section label on them, are often invisible, because we already understand that everyone is doing something about it, everyone is doing something about it from their department; but the evidence tells us that if we don't do a concrete leadership and therefore raise public policies to a general level, then obviously we don't? Well, quite often what happens to us is that they fall for all two bands. In this young man, there's a part that's declarative, that's the first two points, that's not because it's declarative are less important. I believe that they also place an ideological and political framework in this sense, and therefore we are talking about the compromise of public policies LGTBI as an axis of feminist transformation and also a commitment to work to eradicate hate speech, starting with this chamber. In the first point, which speaks of public policies as an axis of feminist transformation, I must say that I was surprised that, since the Parliamentary Group of the PP, they have qualified this part of "feminist transformation". And I'm saying this because I'm celebrating the speech made by Congressman Fernández about prostitution in the past point, which went from progressive to PSC, but now there's a little bit of a setback. But in the second place, let's talk concretely about the hate speech of this chamber, which I think is a consensus, and that, despite everything, despite the fact that it's a consensus, sometimes we don't get out of it, right? in that fine line of hate speech and freedom of speech. And, therefore, let's re-position ourselves on the table in this sense. The same way that the LGTBI collects takes collective awareness of their rights and fights and claims them, it is also evident that hate speech, as I said, and the groups that feed them react before this empowerment and activate their mechanisms. In the work group, we're constantly talking about this, aren't we? , as the increase in incidences or complaints is not so much an alarmist speech, but rather, for a band, the collector, in this case LGTBI, but also the collection of women, the anti-racist or anti-faixist collection, takes knowledge of their rights and, therefore, takes the view and initiative. And that also makes us have a logical reaction in the front, doesn't it? As I said, I wouldn't want to make a defeatist speech, but I also need to be aware of the consequences of things that are said from here and from all the media-enabled spaces and, therefore, how it can end up authorizing assessment, persecution and, finally, how it can end up validating rapes and legitimizing them. And so, in this sense, I think it's important to understand that the declarative part is as much or more important than the rest of the points, because I think we have one responsibility: every time we go out in this faristol, according to which things we are saying, we are validating, we're signing and we're putting against the strings a lot of collectibles that already have the hard stuff. One of the work lines that has characterized the Catalan model of public policies LGTBI is the SAI network. I think that the last few months people, the equals spokespersons, both in the committee and in the working group, we have done a lot of talking about the SAI network, and it's a catal model that works and, I'm well aware that it's missing and that it's hard to do, we're also convinced that it's a good model, and that the bet of providing it with more human and economic resources, that it's one of the points we're talking about in this young man, can help drive many of the demands that, as I say, these days we've been coming from the LGBTI-phobia Task Force. I, in short, understand that the LGTBI policies are not a sectoral policy. I think the first point, that we talked about the feminist transformation and not leaving these public policies like a government ghetto, was in this line. It is not just a policy for the people of the LGTBI collection, but it is a policy of a country that does us better than society and that seeks to guarantee the rights of everyone, that it would not be possible to constantly claim one time and another, if we do not have ahead of the phonamentists, ultra-rights, masculinism, racism, classism, the capitalist system that supports all these patriarchal values and, finally, the religious institution. Therefore, the will of this young man was to re-establish that this is a country policy that the Government is working on in a cross-cutting way, that this is why it has pushed the rank of the public policies LGTBI and that it is one of the strategic lines of this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.70.0	Next, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Sílvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.71.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, allow me to start with a small diagnosis, which I know you know perfectly well, but I think it marks, therefore, what I want you to transmit to them today, from this young man. 2021_was the year with the highest incidences for LGTBI-fòbia in Catalonia, according to the recorded incidences for the Observers against Homophobia: 284 recorded incidences, 50_per_cent more than 2020, or 77,5_per_cent more than 2019. These last years have been compounded by attacks and discrimination on social networks. As you know, 2020, with the pandemic, this type of incident was especially highlighted. And that is in addition, as I said, to the rest of the social contexts where these attacks or discriminations occur in the field of the oci, institutional, sanitation, education, transport, labour or housing. Of these, twenty-eight per cent are verbal assaults – 2021 data – but 17.3 per cent are physical assaults. What can we actually attribute it to, and the motion points that way? To hate speech that employs this type of aggression, the speeches of the extreme right; also to the increase of resources of attention to the victim– probably this makes there also an increment–, and also, little by little, to say some positive, to the loss in front of the complaint or the non-naturalization of this kind of behavior and expressions on the part of the Catalan society. With these data and with the work we have done together with the rest of the parliamentary groups in the Commission of Equality and Women and in the LGTBI-Fóbia Working Group, which we actively participate in, we would mostly vote in favour of the points of this young man. Now, I'd like to reflect on it, which I did the other day in the work group and take advantage of today to do it again. With these data and with this mark, we don't understand very well certain cophosms or proclaim very positive on the part of the councillor or his representatives in the working group, and even on this occasion. After a year of government, more than a year of government, we do not understand this cophoism nor do we understand this young man. In fact, we would not want to think that you have presented yourself because we find ourselves at the time – it has already passed – of the Day of Pride. I summarize this with a motto: I would ask you "less motions and more actions, Mrs. Diaz." And I take it, then, that there has also been the presence of the councilwoman. But we have placed ourselves in this joint work, with this working group, as I said, also with the future amendment of Law 11/2014, and that is why we have introduced some elements into the points where the deficiencies for us are obvious, also for the entities that have expressed it in this working group. Concerning the SAIS: they don't work, Mrs. Diaz, the SAIS, or not very well; but the PSC doesn't say so. I don't think there was a single entity that went through the work group that didn't point to the little regular, little wide and little resources on the part of the SAIs in the long deployment, in the wide territories. With regard to the rule, we, in the matter that has been negotiated, referred to the last compromise that we had approved to the Commission of Equality and Feminisms. I don't know if Mrs. Grau has seen it or not, but they have extended the term. I think we agreed it was October 2022, and you extended it to the end of 2022. Let us hope that there will be no further enlargements on the presentation of this rule. We also wanted to introduce aspects about training, because it seems to us, to us and to the entities of the working group, an essential element to influence those deep, structural changes. And here I'm talking about Professor Langarita, who talked a lot about that, beyond the normal mark, which must be, and the legal mark, we must go to attack those structural aspects that make this expression of LGTBI-fóbia to our society. Therefore, in conclusion, with these forty-seconds, we want to follow the legislature of the law's deployment in an effective and real way. In 2014, we all felt very proud, I think, to have a pioneering law in guarantee of LGBTI rights, but it's been eight years, and we have to recognize, I think, with an exercise of realism, that the best recourse in the deployment of this law is still great. And that's why I wanted to move it. Rather than proclaiming, for statements, for motions, or not only; let us put ourselves to work in an effective deployment, with the resources that are really needed to ensure, therefore, that there is no, or that these LGTBI-fobic attacks diminish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.72.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.73.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I do not know whether I am going to give a joy or a disappointment to Mrs Díaz, because the truth is that we are going to vote in favour of virtually all the points of this motion; including the point where we have tabled the amendment that you have not taken from us, that we are not going to reject it either, we are going to abstain; it is on a point of concept. But I insist that it seems to us, therefore, that the text of the motion itself is correct, which demands things that we too are defending, not only today, but on other days, on other occasions that we have also had occasion to discuss regarding the protection of the rights of LGBTI people. And, therefore, I insist that it seems to us a motion, in this case, correct. Another thing is what is behind this motion, or the cynicism with which some of you come here to claim. For example, what is in point 2, is it not? , which says that the Parliament of Catalonia undertakes to eradicate hate speech in parliament and to shield the chamber against LGBTI-phobic behaviour and discrimination, or also any other form of discrimination. And I want to focus on this point, on which I understand that, a priori, we all agree, but here in this Parliament, we have seen demonstrations and heard genuine barbarities, such as, for example, a few weeks ago we heard a government adviser say that the children in the queue came from Andalusia. We have also heard the – open quotes – « native Catalans who do not speak Spanish to those who do not seem Catalans – close quotes. We have also heard and seen a gentleman made president with speeches of clearly xenophobic content. Not only because I say it, but also because the main European parties say it. We have also heard how contemptible and insulting members of the security forces and bodies, including the army, are with speeches that clearly encourage hatred. You applauded, for example, when the former Health Adviser, Mrs Vergés, justified the non-vaccination of the national police, the Civil Guard and the agents of Maritime Rescue, which is a discrimination declared as such by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia itself. I have not seen them condemn, either in parliamentary or outside, the comments that we heard completely out of place, discriminatory and that encouraged hatred against the little Canet, nor, for example, condemn the vomiting gags of the TV3 Bricoheroes program, where they repeatedly insult the collective of the Civil Guard, the Gypsy people, the Spanish-speaking people, or, for example, the members of the Crown. Nor have I seen them, I insist, condemn so many expressions, such as, for example, that a mayor did not let my party place an information tent in Vic. That, too, seemed to them to be totally justified and not discriminatory at all. And so on. I, as I see you so concerned about the existence of these hate and discriminatory speeches here in Parliament, or that seems, according to what you put on the motion, for you can start today by condemning all these kinds of attitudes – you have another turn, Mrs Díaz, in this very motion – although I am very afraid you will not, because all you like is to continue with victimism, and, above all, with postureum. The day you do what you ask, then, you may have authority to demand something, but for now it is obvious that you do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.74.0	So after the defense of the papers presented, he then has the word, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.75.0	Okay, thank you. Well, this motion is one more constant in this Parliament, and we begin to understand that this social transformation to which some of you so much appeal, is precisely about not speaking or prioritizing in public policies that are useful and necessary. And I want to present a brief diagnosis of the situation in Catalonia to the shock of media headlines. "Some 400,000 children live in poverty in Catalonia. « Catalonia concentrates forty-two percent of the occupations in Spain. « Catalonia is the most expensive community to raise a child. O « Catalonia, where more violations are committed from all over Spain. And now let's look at the priorities of the Government of the Generalitat, also at the stroke of headlines. Very brief. « The Parliament repairs the memory of women convicted of witchcraft in Catalonia. "The Generalitat wants to prevent children from playing football more than girls and monopolizing courts in schools. And third, to put the wink in the cake: « The Government announces to allocate 13_million_de_euros to reinforce the SAI law..., to reinforce – excuse – « the SAI LGTBI network, which has so much been talked about now. The LGTBI Comprehensive Care Service is another chiringuito plus – it's another chiringuito plus – and it's a service disguised as an alleged interest in a group of people who started their journey in 2017. And today we have one hundred and eleven points, all over the region, dedicated to serving only LGBTI people. And we wonder, like many Catalans, why they use people for their sexual orientation, or why they have to treat people differently or in a special way LGBTI people. Do they not deserve the same dignity, treatment and respect as the rest of the population? As if there were no, for example, already the offices for the care of the citizen that exist in Catalonia. EUR 13 million. For what? For the most part, for the recruitment of staff. And it is that they will incorporate one hundred and thirteen people who will be part of their gender army and LGTBI, above full dedication, to generate a false social alarm and waste public resources on victimization and confrontation initiatives. And it is that we are the only party that defends real equality between all Catalans, in front of all the other parties in this Parliament, that have assumed the progressive sectarianism that seeks confrontation and collectivization, thus creating first-class citizens and second-class citizens. [[Some applause.]] They ask us today to vote in favour of giving more money to LGTBI chiringuitos, of making protocols, of doing actions and campaigns to continue with their political ideological agenda of lobbies that is contaminating absolutely everything. And never count on us to burn the money of Catalans in social engineering projects, because the money must be destined for security, it must be destined for homes of official protection, for security, and above all health and education. Because that is where the resources of the Catalans should be, and in this line they will find our parliamentary group. In addition, we also find that in recent years people have been artificially instrumentalized to create associations, a whole network of subsidies and pseudohelps, all of them ideological, with which you and your friends intend to enrich themselves at the expense of Catalan money. And on one of the points, already to finish, on one of the points of the motion, they talk about ending hate speech and creating awareness and awareness campaigns. And in this sense, the best way to end all this is to stop importing individuals who come from countries where they think there are inferior people because of their sexual condition. And this is the reality that you deny and that Catalans know very well and suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.76.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.77.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... well, we're very critical of this young man. First, because, as Mrs Paneque has also mentioned, we are part of the Labour Group on the LGTBI-phobia and it is a subject that specifically, among the Committee on Feminisms, we have been working deeply since a few months. With this young man, our parliamentary group has passed a bit of the same when the anti-racism motion was presented on the appointed dates. It gives us the feeling that, after having had the debate of the 11/2014 modification, a few weeks ago; after the conversations that we have had with the Labour Group on the LGTB-fóbia; after hearing the Director-General of LGTB Policies clever statements, in the own working group, it seems that the consulting department has always done everything traditionally superb and that there is no self-criticism to do anything better, in contrast to much forceful statements by the entities, indicating that in any case they have this feeling on the part of the consulting department, that they find themselves and feel abandoned in relation to the public policies of the communities and the gender-gender collectivities, that in fact they have this feeling on the part of the consulting department, that they are found and that they feel abandoned in relation to the public policies of the media, that is, in fact, that they have been dissident on the part of the media, that in the sense of the Jewish community, etc. But it doesn't correspond to reality. And that we must be able to say. Here there is a lack of concrete evidence as to material questions, which have long since been the subject of real problems: lack of housing measures, lack of education measures, lack of health measures, lack of work measures. There's a lack of concrete things. Because this generally improves the working and training conditions of the SAI professionals; okay, fine. To follow the development of performance protocols, to ensure the deployment of the 19-20, to provide human and economic resources to the SAIs, so, in general, we have already felt 50_million times. And then, if they present us with a motion subsequent to an inquiry, what we expect, like at least, after all this recourse and in the place we have spoken, is concretely concretely. Let's talk about numbers, let's talk about concrete deployment of the SAI network... We also missed this cross-sectional view, because a few years ago, we also had an inquiry into the commons, we talked about feminist policies and incorporated, as it cannot be otherwise, the SAI network into feminist policies, because it is already good to compartmentalize it all the way around. I don't know what kind of cross-cutting policy is this kind of compartmentalization; it's more than that. And, therefore, this mission is also missing. And above all, there is a lack of legislation in place. That is to say, here what we are talking about is that, under the title of "pulse of LGBT policies", the only thing that is done is to guarantee the rights as regards rapes, attention to victims, LGBTI-phobia, etc. But where are the policies in place? How do you ensure that dissident sex-gender people are part of the decision-making process of public policies that they are directly affected by? What is the value given to the cosmovision of gender-gender dissent, as a political position, from the elaboration of these policies? Sex-gender dissidents are not only subject to protection, we also have to contribute to these policies. And this is not taken into account either in these policies, nor in the speeches that the general direction has made to respect, nor anything. We're only talking about guaranteeing rights against violence, but we're not lawmakers in the affirmative. Therefore, without further widening, which I think I have been quite explicit..., another thing that is also missing is the Director General of LGTB Policies, which is already customary that when we talk about these things in the room, there is no such thing as this. In any case, we will give support to the first two points of the motion and the rest of us will abstain, because we believe that this farce of pride has to end, somehow, I feel called to attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.78.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susana Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.79.0	Well, thank you, President. The truth is that I was quite convinced that there would be no reason to follow the previous question, because I thought that, after all the effort we are making to the task force, we understood that the task force actually was a time to make a little propaganda about what the department is doing with the motivation of celebrating pride, which we understand is legitimate – obviously, that the government can do this – but we thought that after everything that was coming out and all the reflections that are being made and the conclusions that we will have to work as a task force, that we believe, on the part of the department – and above all after the later appearances that were made by the LGTBI Policy makers of the department and the secretariat, did I not? , to the working group –..., we thought it was all a challenge to make a move to talk about LGBTBI policies. Finally there is a young man, and the truth is that it is difficult not to convey a certain disenchantment and a certain disappointment that this is what the government party is proposing, which has the responsibility of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. I really think that just looking at the original motion – that we understand that now, with the views of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, it has materialized and improved a little – is clearly insufficient. Actually, the young lady has two parts. It has a first declaratory part with respect to what Parliament does, and we will give support to it, but to the rest we will abstain. We will abstain, because there is no sense of voting after all that we have been hearing after four months in a working group where we carry more than thirty appearances of organizations, entities, institutions: from the prosecutor of hate crimes to the Junta de Ripollet, up to the unit of victims of crime, up to..., starting with the Observers Against Homophobia, who was the driving force behind the working group, to entities of the territory such as We understand Santa Coloma, like H2O de Tarragona, like Colors de Ponent, de Lleida, com TransBaix, al Baix Llobregat. That is to say, all that happened to us in the face of the difficulties and all the impediments that have actually been encountered in implementing and implementing Law 11/2014, that at the time it was an advent, but that after eight years practically did not mean much change in the lives of LGBTBI people, because they have not been allocated the resources nor the priority nor the political will, so even now make votes of four or five generic points, that are declarations of good intentions, that the department will continue to do what it says is already doing and that everyone has valued and considered insufficient, so there is a feeling enough of absurdity, exactly what we are doing and what we are voting for and why we are doing today. Clearly, we can't even imagine what this young man's follow-up report might be, can we? , a few months from now, when we have to do it, and it will be more or less when we have to draw conclusions. If there is one thing that has come out practically in all appearances also is, effectively, the reviews to the functioning of the SAI network, basically because there is no SAI network, there are actually SAI points that most places depend much on the willingness of the assemblies that deploy them. That there are many places where the SAI network, the SAI point, carry the people who carry the SIAD for a few hours a week. That many times the people who wear it don't have the necessary training and enough to actually donate all the information and all the services they're supposed to donate. That there are places where it works two hours a week and there are places where it works all the days of the week, and there are places, like Ripollet, where the assembly is located and where they complain that the Generalitat does not recognize them as being able to distribute health cards with the name changed, because it is not a point of the Generalitat and, therefore, "no. That's to say, pretty absurd things at the coordination level. We, in fact, believe that there is no SAI model, there are SAI points that provided information in the measure of their possibilities. But it's another point that comes out here a lot, which is that of professional training... it's that the issue of powerpoint will come out again. It is to say, if the formation of professionals is the powerpoint that passed us to the deputies and to the deputies of this Parliament in the last legislature as the formation in LGTBI rights, man, therefore the truth, in formation, little. It's a powerpoint where you answer things, it's practically a little more than one question, honestly. This can't be the band they say they've made thousands of you work. And, in fact, another of the things that is very important is the difficulties that there are, for example, at the educational centres to give an answer when there is a problem of an LGTBI-phobic attack at the center, or when there is a child or a young person, a girl who says she has..., or so on, who wants to claim her identity or her diversity of gender. I already told them the other day: when a formation is to be made, they have to hire entities from outside and pay for the APA because it is not incorporated in the curriculum. The LGTBI-phobia, one of the things that came out is that it's structural, it's collective. It's not a sum of punctual attacks that push more or less, and that the Mosses can do better or worse work. It is a social discrimination that is only changing from the youngest child, with affective sex education. And I know very hard, but beyond the words, in the schools and institutes of Catalonia there is no sex-affective education of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.80.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.81.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, very briefly. We will vote in favour of all the points of this young man. We are particularly interested in the last one, where we are talking about keeping the point, as before better – in fact, if 'nsha compromises, therefore, for this late –, the sanctioning regime previews for attacks on lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender; it is the Law 11/2014, of October 10, which was something that for us was important. We have a government commitment – and in principle count on our trust – that this will develop. We can understand that some groups consider the motion to be inconcrete and can make a lot of comments about the SAI networks. But political action must be measured with two parameters: one, political action itself, and what it faces. And, come on, before the wave of neo-uritanism, more than extremes, we see that as much VOX as PSOE coincide in surprising things, so maybe it's what it can do. I can tell you that in the Community of Madrid this attention prospered thanks to the work of Citizens, and I know it in good ink, I know it by the person of that network who attends to my daughter – to my daughter – in the Community of Madrid, and who confessed to me anguished, that person, since Citizens are not there to control and monitor, well, thanks to the gentlemen..., to the neopuritarianism of VOX and to the permissiveness of the PP with that, well, because they are dangerous – these points of attention and all the work achieved, which is not foolishness. So let's apply the count. I mean, sometimes things seem very easy and they're not – they're not at all. We will also vote with special illusion point 2, which says that it is committed to eradicating hate speech in your parliament and shielding the chamber before behaviors and LGBTI-phobic discriminations or any other type of discrimination. Here, therefore, we must share some ironic and paradoxical comments. Yes, hate speech is all hate speech and not just against the LGBTI community. And specifically to the President of this Parliament, I want to say to you, man, that I understand that you are angry with Ciutadans, who is at the origin of the investigations into the complaint that brought him to the present situation, but this is not enough to develop a speech of hatred as he addressed our colleague Marina Bravo yesterday, and less for such a simple reason, not to say stupid, to pretend that Ciutadans attacks the Catalan language. Go, I would already like me that certainly people of this chamber defend themselves in the Catalan language – and the Castilian – as the defense Ciutadans and that has not been spent, man, the one that was not to be spent, the money of the Institution of Catalan Letters. Thank you. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.82.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.83.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Thanks to the LGTBI community, too, to face all attacks and help us make policies for their freedom and for their security, too. From now on we have always thought that LGBTI-phobic speeches must be outside all institutions and outside the street, and that policies in favour of the LGBTI community must be at the centre of the debate, because we agree that they are human rights, that today it has been difficult to defend them, but that we can all succeed in building a freer, fairer and more supportive world. A world that in full 21st century has to fight against the rise of fascism..., that is not neo-Puritanism, Mrs Grau, that is neo-feixism, in a world that has to fight against the rise of the extreme right, that supposes this retreat of democratic rights, and that, naturally, has the target recur in attacks on the value of tolerance, respect and coexistence, unfolding the speech of hatred and political LGBTI-phobics, even though of vegas they do pinkwashing. But from this Parliament, we put our rights in the centre. We did it, we always do it, we do it in favour of individual rights, in favour of collective rights. We did it yesterday to defend the right to vote of Congressman Lluís Puig and the rights of his constituents, despite the fact that this generates more repression and more persecution on the part of a democratic state. And we did it today with the complaint of the violation of the rights of Julian Assange or the Basque journalist Pablo González, or also defending the rights of women in the previous motion for what he does to sex work. And we'll follow it from Parliament and we've done it through..., engaging in the cross-cutting struggle of LGBTI rights, which are this foundational pillar of feminist transformation. We did it to the Commission of Equality and Feminisms, to the Working Group on the LGTBI-fóbia, which I remind groups that do not come that there is a working group on the LGTBI-fóbia; through the modification of the Law 11/2014, or the creation of the law trans de Catalunya or the Intergroup of Sexual and Reproductive Rights, which we finally saw to be able to constitute last week. These policies and initiatives that the Parliament is interested in will regulate society and help improve our situation with respect to the rights. However, in order to be a hundred_per_cent chamber free and free of hate speech and to shield us from the extreme right or in front of the behaviors and discriminations LGTBI-fobic and other types of discrimination, such as a reform of the Rules and, therefore, call upon these parliamentary groups to include this reform of the Rules as soon as possible in their actions, so that sanctions are imposed above all on those who refuse to respect the rights or on those who include hatred in their speeches or actions. Because, Mr Roldán, not everyone will agree to this, there are Members of this House, of this Parliament who have not signed and who, therefore, are not defending the rights and freedoms of everyone. And for the government: the government must obviously move from consciousness to commitment, to commitment to implement the LGTBI policies, but also with economic and human resources, as the movement says, through the deployment of the SAI network and increasing the formation of people working in this SAI network, but above all they respect the diversity of the country and of the territory, and therefore I have not yet stayed in Barcelona, but I work in the territory; obviously, with the collaboration of the institutions also working in this SAI network, and forming the trainers. And it is also essential, we believe, from Junts to Catalonia, that people from the LGBTBI community are involved, also, in these SAI networks, and in these institutions where they work to defend the rights of the LGBTBI community, to improve the working conditions and also to make visible and to defend the integration of these people, especially trans people, who have problems of labor insertion. I'll move quickly to..., because there's an increase in the LGTBI-fóbia and the LGTBI-fóbic attacks. Yesterday we knew about the attack on four people who took part in the festival."Figueres is soft, and we support them because they attacked them, and we give them the support because they act and because they act, too, the institution through the protocols. And I wanted to focus on..., lastly, I would want – and I'm already president – to focus on the need to ensure public policies of repair and monitoring of LGBTI victims, but also from Junts we ask, we want to insist on activating mechanisms of promotion and protection of activists and defenders of sexual and reproductive rights and LGBTI rights, often attacked for the collections and networks of the extreme right. In this sense, we believe it is necessary for the Government to assist in the investigation, in the visibility and eradication of groups that promote hate speech and express, assist and attack the LGTBI collection. And, please, that it is impossible to access these groups, that they are sometimes stuck in provided foundations or profamilia, that it is impossible to access them to public finance and that there is any institutional collaboration with them. Because defending the rights of human rights defenders and the rights of people and LGBTI collectors is defending the rights of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.84.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the exams, the honourable Member has the word, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.85.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly, before the deputies begin to arrive. Well, I don't think it's a youth based on this feeling of cophoism given by the socialist MP; I do think that if they found some questions missing, instead of going from the point in favour, to the vote in favour of forbearance, we might be able to work the papers. I think we've been able to work another way. In fact, they have only submitted PSC and PP submissions and we have come to a majority of transactions with the PSC. And, therefore, I believe that perhaps there was another margin for giving this young man an opportunity instead of going straight to the negative. In my initial speech, I have already spoken of a margin of improvement, we are aware that the SAI network is missing. And precisely because of this – speaking of the margin of improvement – that, and so much, from 2023 onwards, economic resources are multiplying per se. I know that we have a year of government, I know that there are shortcomings, I know that there are missing things, but it was precisely the will to put this topic on the table and to be able to continue to advance folds. They were talking about letting people come to our country who think they're worth less for their sexual orientation. Are there people who think there are other people who are worth less for their sexual orientation? So, and they're in Catalonia and they're in the Spanish State and they're out of the world, because that doesn't have an origin or a concrete ideology, but mostly... [[remorse of the voice]] I'm sorry, I can't feel the thought.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.86.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.87.0	Thank you. And finally, very quickly, to the Socialist MEP, who you are telling me less speeches, less motions and more action. And I would say exactly the same thing: fewer speeches and more to do out of their files transphobic speeches, which they have in this chamber and to all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.88.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.89.0	To request a separate vote from motion 17, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.90.0	Thank you. Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.91.0	President, to ask for the Bureau's reading of point 4 of our motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.92.0	Point 4 of motion number 17.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.93.0	From the motion about the people who engage in sexual work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.94.0	All right. All right, so let's take a note of that, and then the reading will be done. The debate is over, and I am sure that we will now proceed to the vote on the motions which we tabled this morning at items 16 and 18 of the order of the day and that the delegation vote of Mr Lluís Puig will be recorded on the basis of the vote that the spokesman of his parliamentary group has indicated, in which he has delegated his vote. We begin by voting on the texts of motions that are put to the vote and that incorporate admitted drafts and drafts. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need to ensure citizen security (continuation)]] [[302-00168/13]] We will now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the need to ensure citizen security. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 122 votes in favour and 8 votes against. We're voting now on point 3.b bis. The vote begins. This point was approved with 111 votes in favour, 8 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.d. The vote begins. The 3.d_point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 16 votes against. We're voting now on the 3.d bis point. The vote begins. The 3.d bis point was not approved, with 51 votes in favour, 79 votes against. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 18 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 33 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 114 votes in favour, 8 against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rights of persons exercising sexual work (continuation)]] [[302-00169/13]] We now vote for the motion following the question to the Government about the rights of persons exercising sexual work. I, before voting the first point, point number 4, ask the first secretary to do the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.95.0	"Rejects the concept that promotes the criminalization of voluntary sex work, giving that all types of criminalization end up disproportionately affecting the people who exercise it, increasing the stigma that elevates them from the services and resources that they need and contributing to the displacement of sexual work to clandestineness or other territories, with greater risk of exploitation and trafficking of human beings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.96.0	The vote begins. This point was approved with 86 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 87 votes in favour and 43 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 23 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 84 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 2 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 86 votes in favour and 44 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the pulse of LGBTI policies (continuation)]] [[302-00174/13]] And, finally, we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the momentum of LGTBI policies. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 84 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 35 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 103 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 16 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 103 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 16 abstentions. Let's suspend the session and start it at a quarter of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.97.0	Let's resume the session with the new item on the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism development policies]] [[302-00170/13]] The motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism development policies. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, and has the word to expose it to Congresswoman Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.98.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies. Last week we offered this chamber a diagnosis of our tourism sector, a diagnosis that allowed us to see a real picture of the main problems and concerns facing companies and workers living from this source of wealth and economic well-being, so important for our region. Today we come to present proposals in the field of tourism very different from what we have been doing so far, proposals for tourism management based on evidence and not on ideology. Well, the measures we are presenting today are divided into two blocks. First, to find evidence. Progress and improvement cannot be made if reality is not admitted and mistakes are not assumed. Progress and development in the sector are impossible if one continues to do the same things that have prevented Catalan tourism from realizing its potential. We therefore ask this Parliament to see four unappealable truths. One, which notes the socio-political instability and legal insecurity resulting from the separatist process, which have caused enormous damage to Catalonia's national and international image and reputation as a tourist destination. Their yellow ties, their 'ho we will return to iron and the burnt containers have frightened, eh? , to tourism. Two, recognizing that insecurity and increased crime in our neighbourhoods undermines the development of tourism businesses and lowers the quality and spending of tourism in our region. Tourists no longer dare to go out with their wrist watches or cash in their pockets. Three, let it be admitted that tourismophobia is a mortal enemy of the workers and entrepreneurs of the sector, that the policies of tourismophobic represented here by the separatist and leftist bench take away the dream and bread from thousands of honest working families for whom tourism is the source of life and livelihood for their family. And four, that it is admitted that the impulse and care of the tourism sector is not incompatible with the reindustrialization of Catalonia. But that requires two things: political will and technical attitude. And, unfortunately, this government lacks both. The second block is to offer a package of economic, regulatory, educational, fiscal and social measures that we are sure that, if adopted, will give new hope for a model of government tourism management that has been clearly obsolete and counterproductive. We call for the abolition of taxes on the sector, for the cessation of plans to create new tax figures, such as the tax on port emissions. Not content with the tax instigated hell, do they intend to create more taxes? We suppose that to finance even more his ideological delusions. We demand that the Government drastically reduce the regulation and bureaucracy in the administrative procedures related to tourism, that it support the autonomous, and that all this be done in coordination with the municipal entities, municipal entities that demand response, for example, to the erosion of the coast of Prat, Viladecans, Gavà, Castelldefels, Badalona, Vilafortuny, Terres de l'Ebre, and many other territories of our coastal Catalonia. It is essential to stop all that illegal business that, like keeping you and illegal bikes, damages our proximity trade and undermines the quality of life of the neighbors. So we had to report it in Tarragona last weekend under threats and attacks of the same to keep you. We call for the development of new indicators and statistics on tourism competitiveness and the reorientation of vocational training to meet the labour needs of a sector that is urgently requesting labour. We demand that measures of deconcentration and deseasonalization of the sector be really promoted that enhance the comparative and competitive advantages of forgotten territory and value our local traditions, culture and idiosyncrasy. Look, two things contribute to progress: go faster than others or go the right way. You have decided to move very quickly towards the precipice of ruin and misery. With the eighteen measures we propose in this motion we give you the opportunity to go the right way and to secure the present and future of honest workers. Think of Catalonia, think of working families and Catalan entrepreneurs. Replace the four Catalan provinces in the world as an example of progress and well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.99.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy lady Lorena Roldán, of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.100.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we share the general view of this motion, which presents economic and fiscal measures – some of which we have also defended earlier – as well as measures to promote tourism and also against insecurity. Yesterday I was asking in the control session of Councillor Elena for this escalation of crimes that we are living throughout Catalonia, but especially in Barcelona and its metropolitan area, whose main objective are tourists. And we have seen, regrettably, recently videos in which we see how in the full light of day in very central streets of Barcelona there are assaults and clockwork, with images that sincerely worry us and have to make us be alert, because those images not only see them here, but they also look at the international level, with everything that that can bring. And it's not about creating alarms, it's about taking and seeking solutions to this problem. That's why I was telling Councilman Elena yesterday that you can't have such a naïve view of security policies at times and that you have to get to work. I am aware that there is a specific plan by the Department of the Interior to tackle this wave of crimes. I don't know if it's going to be too late, but let's hope that at least these images and robberies that we're seeing can be avoided and that occur too often, especially, I insist, in the streets of Barcelona, but not just there. Well, as I said, we share the general view of this motion, and I want to stop at the points where we talk about some attitudes that we have seen, not only from the Government of the Generalitat, but also from the Government of the City of Barcelona, with Mrs Colau at the front. It is true that here, in Catalonia and especially in Barcelona, we have had the perfect storm to end one of the engines of our economy such as tourism. On the one hand, we have the populism of Colau and, on the other, the nationalism of Junts and Esquerra. Well, the first, therefore, encouraging speeches and policies contrary to tourism, where the CUP has also contributed invaluablely, and the second generating a crisis of coexistence accompanied by enormous legal insecurity and political instability, which, of course, do not invite you to come to Catalonia. And you know it. You gentlemen of Esquerra and Junts know it perfectly well. I think we all remember the campaign of a couple of summers ago, of 2020, the one that said "Catalonia is your home, come to dinner with me, where there was an image of Besalú in which, by magic, all the ties, banners and stellates that exist precisely in that area had disappeared. That is to say, you know perfectly well what causes all the attitude that they show from the Government of the Generalitat, in which they practically expel tourism and especially inland tourism. Hence, from here I would ask them for responsibility in their policies and not just to make the advertising dressing gowns in turn. Well, if with all this the drama was no longer served, we have also experienced a pandemic, which has forced many businesses, many establishments and even our own borders to close, thus preventing the entry of tourists. I believe that now, with the much more relaxed restrictions, we have a golden opportunity to regain again a tourism that is essential, especially in coastal municipalities. The hotel moratorium, the rejection of the extension of the Prat airport, the tourist rate or the campaign against holiday rental hurt a sector that, again insisting, is vital to our economy. Just a few months ago, some 20 agents and entities signed a manifesto asking that tourism not be used as a political tool, noting that the municipal government is particularly recovering this debate on a negative and unconstructive basis. Well, among the entities that support this initiative, for example, are..., Foment del Treball, Pimec, el Gremi d'Hotels, el Primavera Sound, el Col·legi d'Economistes, Comertia, Apartur, l'Agrupament de Botiguers e Comerciants de Catalunya, Amics de la Rambla, Apartur, l'Associació del Passeig de Gràcia, Barcelona Oberta, Comertia i Confecat, among others. I think it is clear that we must listen – that we must listen – and that we must legislate responsibly, because the tourism sector is concerned, and rightly so. We are grateful to the group that is proposing this proposal to bring it to this Parliament today and also to have accepted one of our amendments, which is precisely what it seeks to cooperate actively with the Government of Spain in the search for European funds for the promotion of tourism projects. Funds that, I insist, are essential for a strategic sector such as tourism and also for the promotion of digitisation and sustainability of the tourism sector. Therefore, thank you for accepting this amendment and, well, I think it is quite clear that we are going to vote in favour of all its points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.101.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, there is, after all, the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.102.0	Yes; deputies, president... MPs, deputies... Mrs.Lázaro, it is obvious – and I wanted to start like this – that the pandemic has changed, or at least so we are seeing, leisure habits and a different view of tourism throughout the world, in fact. Leisure activities have been prioritized, I believe, within the whole family economy despite the uncertainty and situation in which they are currently located. We have seen this new reality in the numbers of occupation in recent months and, above all, since the last Holy Week. But this makes it even harder..., and this is a reality that I also wanted to put on the table today, which, according to the INE, in a recent survey, one_of_each_three Spaniards cannot go on vacation a week a year. We believe that it is also important that we take this into account. Therefore, this prioritization, together with the impossibility of being able to go on vacation for many Spaniards, generates a different reality that we believe needs a reflection. There is also a clear reality, and it is that, if we compare the arrival of tourists since 2019 in Catalonia, it has been reduced by twenty-one_per_cent – are figures of the Generalitat itself – and by twenty-six_per_cent the tourist's spending in Catalonia since 2019. That is, an obvious reduction of tourists – this may please some groups in this chamber, I suppose those who defend the decrease, because they can be good figures for them – but also of the tourist spending, that is, certainly of quality. And we have, therefore, a problem that goes far beyond this motion, which, basically, we are going to support, because many of the points that you put to us are evidences. And I like to start by saying that this is a motion in which they want to make clear a series of evidences above the ideologies. I believe that in this case it is so, it is evidence that we share, at least some of them, although we consider that, possibly, some other recipes that we believe can be exposed are missing. You speak, for example, of some clear measures. It is clear that the process has generated some reasons or changes in the arrival of tourists. The first was in the years 2018, 2019. The process caused the arrival of national tourism from the rest of Spain to be dramatically reduced – the first cause they recognized. In fact, Mrs Roldán commented earlier, she said, there was a campaign in which they admitted, eliminating and using all kinds of tools, which disturbed some symbols on the arrival of tourists from the rest of Spain. That was the first of them. Nor did it help much, at least, I think, to see Barcelona burn. And I don't know if the tourism of barricades and burnt containers is part of the tourism innovation, but I think it didn't help much to make that happen or at least to make those figures that I mentioned before foreign tourists who have stopped coming and stopped spending in Catalonia improve. Tourismophobia, which is a problem focused mainly on Barcelona, has also been one of the problems that has caused us problems in our capital, in Barcelona. And I think this, which I hope we can solve in 2023, next year, is one of the, say, problems or charges we have had to suffer for the longest time in Catalonia. Other problems that you present, such as, of course, the feeling of insecurity in many of the tourist areas of Catalonia..., we must also add to that, let's say, well, exposure of clear problem and which generates that in some cases there are problems, many times, especially in Barcelona and in some coastal areas, so that we have the tourism we want. That's obvious. The fiscal pressure, which you comment on, is, too. We believe that at some points..., although we do not believe that the tourist rate is the basic problem of this, but, possibly, the tourist rate the problem we have with it is that we do not know what it is dedicated to. And the management of this and the transparency in the management of this is the great problem that we have with that tourist rate, which is necessary for the territory and which, surely, is necessary for it to be used in the innovation of tourism in Catalonia. Innovation itself is also a problem. He has not been accompanied by the Government or the Enterprise Department to the sector to improve on new tourism proposals. In fact, we see the reduction in tourist spending in Catalonia. And some other proposals – we can be talking about tourism for a long time – for example, the accompaniment, the lack, in this case, of adequate vocational training for the sector, a sector that is lacking, for example, of waiters, is true, and that does not know how to respond to that reality. Therefore, it is true that we have to turn against that. Finally, we are glad that you have taken a step towards accepting climate reality, such as the erosion of beaches, which in this case we will be voting in favour. It's true, it's not just those, the ones you're commenting on there; it's many more, the ones you're suffering in this case. And, well, sometimes negationism isn't always good. Thank you, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.103.0	After the defense of the papers presented, he then has the word to fix his position the deputy Juan Luis Ruiz, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.104.0	Well, thank you very much, President. The truth is that when one, much as he intends to have a predisposition not to prejudice certain motions of some parliamentary group..., the truth is that when one begins to read the motion, then it is impossible. And the truth is that, finally, then, it gives us the reason that this young man, obviously, can't vote for her favorably, can it? You start with the first point of the separatist process. It's true, isn't it? , that in certain moments of the end of 2017 and 2018, beyond the consequences it had for the Catalan society itself, speaking only in terms of tourism, which is the motto of this young man..., obviously, it is true that they gave images, therefore, not much positive for what it does to the international projection of Catalonia as a tourist destination, isn't it? Even so, there were certain countries that at some point recommended that their citizens not come to our territory, even though it was a very timely issue. But it's also true that you have to look at the data and when you look at the data, right? , you see that it's not really good either and that so... Miri, the year 2018 respects the year 2017, there was an increase of 0.4_per_cent for what it does to tourists, and the previous year was a 5.3. It's true that there was a reduction, but, of course, to attribute it to the process is that it's a little complicated, and more when compared to other tourist destinations. But when we read the motion and point number 2, which speaks of "increased crime of low and high intensity implies a serious problem for the tourism sector... Miri, this is false, this is not true. The dice, more than that, deny it. Every time more tourists arrive. It's false to be able to talk about high crime. It is true that there may be some specific facts, but no more than other tourist destinations. And what really hurts tourism – what really hurts tourism – is to launch fakes of this type and the image that you want to launch from Catalonia as a tourist destination. Because, listen to me, if anyone doesn't know Catalonia and listen to you or read these statements, of course, it's going to look like Catalonia is, I don't know, the medellin of the eighties. And, listen to me, it's not. I mean, Catalonia is not the Medellin of the Eighty Years or Medellin currently is the Medellin of the Eighty Years. Therefore, an extraordinary city that I invite you to visit, that you know the world, that you see, visit, travel, and see that the world is very plural and very diverse. But we're still on the third point. Diu : "Ideological policy of a progressive nature is a disincentive to the arrival of tourists. And this was a non-politicized young man, huh? They didn't want to talk about politics. What are they based on? So, what data justify these claims? What data? Why, of course, what do you mean? That those governments that are left-wing and progressive, such as those of the Balearic Islands, those of the Valencian Community, those of the Canaries, act against tourism? Home, so they don't freak out, huh? Because every time they have more tourists. So, man, a little more rigour in making certain statements wouldn't be bad. But we're still reading, and the five-point, so, we're talking about the tourist tax. And, listen, the tourist tax is a tax that's consolidated, it's a tax that's already integrated into its own prices. It is a tax which, moreover, has the majority of competitive tourist destinations and which, moreover, seems to be positive that, to a certain extent, tourists also participate in minimizing the negative externalities that we can generate there, at the place we visit. It is a good thing that we also contribute to the better part of tourism. And, in addition, the next data says all the opposite. Since the tourist tax was approved and applied, the number of tourists has grown exponentially, at least until the year 2019. It is obvious that year 2020 or year 2021 is a pandemic and it is obvious that no comparisons can be made. So, we... I'm not going to go any further, because we could follow each of the different points, but it seems to me that we've already given enough arguments not to be able to vote for this young man. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.105.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.106.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon. Well, last week we could see it. Today we have seen again, that it seems that there are some groups that are very concerned about tourism. Okay. I will tell you: if I say that the namenamenat « developing through the tourism of Francoism enriched the Francoist elites at the same time that strengthened the dictatorship as a consequence of the gain of Franco's international reputation is tourismphobia, no problem. If to say that interpreting that tourism development is a way to democratic emancipation implies the acceptance that as the most free market is the most free market is the people and that this is a fallacy, if you say all that is tourismphobic, no problem. If you say that the climate of tourism is truly unsustainable and that the economic activity of tourism contributes, and very much, to the global climbing is tourismphobia, no problem. If defending the non-merchantization of the territory by the tourist multinationals is tourismphobia, no problem. If defending that the strength of the work of the tourist services – and putting it on – is one of the lowest among the economic sectors in Catalonia is tourismphobia, no problem. If you say you're destroying the coast and contributing to the real estate boom, it's tourismphobia, no problem. You call 'life tourism' people who think that a fraternal society is supposed to oppose the one-sided thinking that there is no other way that the subjection of labour to capital and the subjection of the needy to the consumption of goods, that there is no life or society more than the consumer society and the mercantile labor. In the background, you are one of those who say 'fobic tourism' to all those people who think that a fraternal society is not part of capitalism. But he's not worried. No problem. You're defending tourism. And tourism is nothing more than the way to govern the totality and dictatorial in which tourism interests take precedence over the rights of the majority. That is to say, you defend that not everyone enjoys the same rights. That's what you're defending, and to defend this to us, they're telling us about phobic tourism. In a touristic society, which is what you defend, the vulnerability of the majority is extreme and growing. And that's what we're fighting. Because, gentlemen, it's not tourismophobia, it's capitalismophobia, as Arran used to say and to whom you've often criminalized. Therefore, thank the young man of Arran for continually noting that it is the tourism industry, to defend the rights of all and to denounce that you defend the interests of the elites.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.107.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, it is the turn of Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.108.0	Well, good one's late. The truth is, I'm a bit of a mandra, going out and talking about this young man. She sends me because a young man who wants to talk about tourism and tackle the issue of tourism, and who starts reading and says that she finds that "if the separatist process, that if the growing insecurity, that tourismphobia... Truth, it makes me the effect that it does not lay the basis to talk about tourism, of a tourist model, to discuss civilizedly and such. Makes me the quickest effect that it's an exercise in cynicism. It's as if they tell us that a company with a very favorable tourist model and that it would attract a lot of tourism and that it would be an ultra-retailed company, I understand, because they are doing, say, an ideological approach to defending their position and criticizing everything they don't think of as they do. A very sectarian political model, too, isn't it? Talking about tourismphobia is simply putting a label to avoid a debate about different tourist models. It's only right that there are debates about tourist models, but what you can't put on is a tourism label that you can defend a different tourist model to which you are planting, if you are planting some tourist model, rather than trying to make your own ideological debate, isn't it? And to talk about growing insecurity and increasing crime of low and high intensity... Say, listen, we would, if you want to make a motion about citizen security, do it, but also do it in earnest, with comparative data, with serious political proposals. Listen, talk about tourism and place as a problem the insecurity that affects the current tourist model, the truth, also seems to us to be out of place. And that's what they do next to justify questions like tax hell – tax hell. Listen, aviam, tax hell, what's the tourist tax? So, the truth is, it does me the effect that it is also a way of labelling to attack a policy that is demonstrated by the world that does not negatively affect the development of tourism in any territory – the existence of a tourist tax. We can discuss their applications, we can discuss a greater transparency in... but, escorted, the existence of tax taxes is neither fiscal hell nor assembled in res. So I think this young man doesn't even have a few of our points of view. We will vote against it because, moreover, we believe that it does not raise the problems well, even when it says: "Oh, we want to address the problems faced by tourism, businesspeople and workers. I, of course, talk about everything, but the workers don't say anything at all. It does not recognize a situation of bad working conditions, unfortunately, of the workers of the tourism sector, poorly paid, precarious, with very intense days. Well, listen, if we're gonna talk about everything, we're gonna talk about everything. But they don't even mention it. Therefore, we believe that it is a young man who, on our part, cannot vote for it, because, moreover, it is an exercise in cynicism. And it's an exercise in cynicism because in the background what it does is try to deny that the Earth is spinning. Set up, say, in this terraplanist conception that characterizes them. And if you don't understand, I'll read you a poem by Marta Pessarrodona, which I think makes this concept of cynicism, this concept, and so on, in a way of doing enough hypocritical politics, right? It says: « Long learning, / that of cynicism. / Any faith/ and will pay with cold, / and winter is long, / hard mass. / You'll see everything you need to see/ agree against. / And if you're a poet/ you're going to embolish/ in small things, / you're going to shout for justice/ injustices and you're going to placard/ all political parties. / Censorship will be the friends, / you yourself, / unable to contemplate, / for the first time, / that the earth rotates/ and that things/ nothing does not tell it. I hope you understand that the Earth is spinning, that nothing is telling it, and that, with cynicism exercises like what you're doing with this young man, we can't really address a problem of tourism that we really need to do, the debate, but on bases, if not scientific, and social and political compromises with the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.109.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Tonia Batlle has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.110.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, after what I had prepared, but the one I've been listening to, so I have to say that I agree with some of the contributions they've made, because we've fixed ourselves on the same points, both with Mr Gallego himself now, and also with Mr Ruiz. You started your inquiry saying that this young man would have two goals, Mrs. Lazarus: for one band, denounce the abandonment of government functions, and, second place, for another, offer a good management alternative. I understand that you had to attend the committee last October, where Mrs. Marta Domènech was compared, and after attending this committee, if you say that we have lost office on the part of the department, I will tell you that from our parliamentary group we are in disagreement with your statement and therefore it is clear that we will vote against this young man. Let 'em answer some of the aspects. When you speak of a good management alternative, therefore, you managed it in the tourist tax, as the deputy of the Socialist Party said, suppression of the tourist tax. I would say to you: it is a consolidated rate, accepted for the sector. I won't deny that it caused fear at the time, because it was a new implant and could cause a change, but it wasn't the change. And neither is it an invention of this government, but I recommend that I analyze it; there are many countries that long before Catalonia already had it, this tax. Therefore, the debate will also say that it is not in what is the suppression of the fee, but in the end of the money that is collected with this fee. Another aspect is point 3 of the motion, which, as the deputy of the Socialist Group has called it, you are talking about tourism and then about the impact of the ideological policy of moving forward, which, for one band, is a disincentive to the arrival of tourists and, for the other, undermines growth expectations and the investment linked to the sector. So I invite you to talk to tourists, many tourists who have come years ago, who have come and continue to come, and to explain to them whether they are affected by the deep loops or not to return to Catalonia. Because it's very clear that the Catalonia brand is coming, and it's coming alone. Another aspect: investments. Here, miri, let's talk about a concrete aspect, because I soc de Lloret – as I have said a few times – I dedicate myself to the tourism sector and know very well the tourism sector of Lloret and the investments they have made. And I'll tell him: private companies that have renovated and made investments in their hotels, 2018-2019 year – will sound like it, huh? , process –..., investment of more than 100_million euros in large and also small businesses, that make a lot of effort, and some hotels, with investments of 28_million euros in a single company, said. For another band, I'll tell them: I was in October on a few days that Lloret was doing, where we held the bellows of the Counsellor Giró, and I felt very identified with a reflection that he did. He said: "We have to unravel the clix of mass tourism, because when I hear the claim of mass tourism, I can't help but blow my nose. At that moment I thought, "Counselor, I identify with you, because I've always thought about that. It's clear, the explanation the counselor gave us after. We're talking about mass tourism; it's a tourism that was from its beginnings. It was invented for anglers in the 19th century and it was to give the working classes of the interior the opportunity to go take the banys to the coast. In England, Thomas Cook set sail for the world's first tourist company. The year 1851 lasted in London 151,000 British who saw the wonders of the universal exposition. He set a popular fare to make travel accessible to everyone, and tourism, at that time it was possible that for many centuries it had not passed, and tourism was not only at the expense of privileged elites. Therefore, it should also be noted that tourism and the misnomer of mass tourism do not imply low-quality tourism, as is often intended to be associated. Finally, I would like to make it very clear that, from this parliamentary group, we are on the side of the government to work on a good law for the sector, to embrace the demands of the sector and to succeed in continuing to lead this industry, which is the pillar of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.111.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Anna Torrentà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.112.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, again, we find ourselves with a more extreme right-winger, without data, imprecise, and principle-to-principle failure; motion to dismount, because from our Republican Left Group we believe that silence can never leave a place to see and lie. So much lied that the self-determination process has spooked tourism in the later years and, in change, from the same sector anticipating reservations of memory, feel Catalonia the second after the Balearic Islands. And if they don't listen to the sector, I look at the labour market data, with a descent of 9,946 people, as a minimum in July 2008, and the increase in contracts and a social security contribution that first exceeds 3.6 million affiliates. Dades, Congresswoman. If I tell you Amsterdam, Berlin, Brussels, Paris, Bulgaria, Croatia, up to one hundred and fifty cities, there is a country, do you know what they have in common? So, apart from being great touristic fates, surprise! , apply tourist tax. I'm sorry to inform you that we've been advanced to our Catalan invention, which is also a lie. And that, with the best of intentions, generalize – as it did last week's inquiry – that, due to the tax, a family holiday in Catalonia pays a hundred euros more than on the Costa Daurada is a given trap. It is only an accessory if the family of four seven-year-olds settles in a five-star hotel for a week. Home, so much. Perhaps the example was a typical holiday for your group, but I don't know if you know that there is a wide range of families who are in other types of accommodation and that the tax would amount to 8,4_euros per family and week. Yeah, 'cause I work... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, 0,60_euros a day. It's just the same. Hundreds, I'm sorry. With examples that have been eroded and alarmed, it would seem that VOX is the one who does not want tourists to come to Catalonia. We're still helping. Catalonia, 2020-21, contributed a total of €3,182_million to help the social and economic needs of the pandemic. Some in trade, tourism and peppers, and some in the promotion of occupation. And some have continued into 2022. Mirin, I've been working for thirty-one years in the tax department of an attorney's office. Until the day before I joined this Parliament as a Member of Parliament, I was working on these aids for small businesses, restaurants and the local authorities of different areas. And, as much as there's room for improvement, I'll tell them that you helped them, they handled them in a simple way, and they got to who asked them and who fulfilled their demands. And yes, I want to simplify processing and red tape between administrations and with citizens. And, as you may know, this Tuesday the government set aside a new administrative simplification decree which, in addition, will save €44.4 million, without losing control of the transactions or failing to demand the security of the establishments. Before being insecure, I'm sure yesterday they listened to Councilwoman Elena and Councilwoman Verge's answer when they asked the government, which they explained perfectly. What I really want to say to you: I live twenty kilometers from the border with France, and its phrase "we have tourism from France that comes to steal from our neighbours is as false as saying that there are Spanish tourists who steal there where they go on holiday. How can you make these statements and stay so wide? Do you know how many French tourists came in 2009? More than four million. French tourism is important for the North-Gyronine area, where there is food and wine quality, accommodation, culture, and the beautiful countryside. It's actually a change in the tourist model and it's working on it. A model that brings benefit to the community through travel values, and is working with all sectors and ports of call of the tourism process to plan and order a new tourism law. Economic well-being, but also collectivities, social and emotional well-being, with entertainment and a balanced relationship with the natural surroundings, and in the community, of entrepreneurs and people directly and indirectly linked to tourism, but above all with people living in these localities, and also with the values of travel, not only as pleasure and joy, but also with academic, health, professional or family motivations. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Values, well-being, community. I'm done, President. For the fallacies, the inaccuracies, to propose actions that are already being done, we will vote against the split points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.113.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.114.0	Thank you very much, President. I'm gonna try to answer everyone, but I don't think I'm gonna give it time, but I'm gonna try. First, to Mr Juan García, of Citizens, tell him that we have never denied climate change. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Moreover, climate change has existed since the world existed. [[Some applause.]] Just like the erosion of the beaches. [[Widow's remorse.]] President... Well, with regard to the socialist deputy, look, just thank him for his effort to justify the vote against. Really don't try – don't try. We know, we already know of their sectarianism and what prevents them from voting in favour. Take note of our proposals, as they often do on some occasions, that we will indeed vote in favour of them. Thank you. See, the lady from the CUP, look, no problem. Just tell her that..., Mrs. CUP, in tourism and many other things, you are the problem of Catalonia. And as for Arran, his puppies from Arran, we know them, we know of their violence and we know that they are very capable of burning even buses. [[Some applause.]] Mr Gallego, you have invented a word that I have had to look for: « ultra-retailed. I don't know what you mean. It takes being an engineer to pronounce what and doesn't exist, that word. [[The joker laughs.]] You're so scientific, you guys, you're making it up to words. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, Junts and Esquerra, well, normally we don't agree, it's very normal. On the tourist rate, look, I have to tell you that the tourist rate in Catalonia ranges from 0.60, as you said – the lowest – to 3.50 – to 3.50. And I did a mean – half – calculation of an average tourist. As far as French tourists are concerned, look, it is true that many French, many French Maghrebians come. [[Widow's remorse.]] Recently in Salou, a Maghrebian Frenchman, of Maghrebian origin – of Maghrebian origin –..., a murder in the street in Salou. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.115.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the 24th item on the order of the day is solid. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2022-2023 course in the public education service]] [[302-00171/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into course 2022-2023's initiation in the public education service. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. And you have the word to expose it to Mr. Jordi Jordan... [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.116.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ... of Article 87. We have just spoken racist words using non-existent concepts to refer to a section of the population that we believe that in the framework of this Parliament we should not allow. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.117.0	As we have repeated on numerous occasions, we ask the Members who are responsible for the code of conduct of this Parliament, which naturally includes the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination and the non-systematic connection of the origin of persons with criminal practices. In addition, in this case, as the honourable Member had now pointed out, innovative in the name of the people affected. Once more, then, it is said here because I am conscious. And the word is Mr. Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.118.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... also greet the different members of the teaching union who accompany us. Good afternoon to everyone. September 7th and 28th, nine school waves. You announce all education unions today in a unanimous manner. That's how the new school year begins. Menysteniment, lack of dialogue, lack of ambition, lack of understanding continue towards the educational community, this is the balance of the Government Aragonès d'Esquerra Republicana and Junts. It will also be the fault of Spain or Europe, or perhaps the unions and the same educational community, because you are experts in pulling pilots out, in not being responsible for anything. And education is one of the skills of our self-government. Say what they say, it's obvious that worse, impossible. That's why today we present this motion, because, after the inquiry to Mr. Cambray last week and the nil answer of the entire government, we can say, we could say that we are on the day of the marmot. Calen change, calen mleures and, above all, to listen to the unanimous cry of the educational community of Catalonia. And let's go back to making proposals that go in three directions: in good planning, in more and better quality and in transparency. Let's start with good planning. The first element we put back from the table is the one-year moratorium on the progress of the school calendar. This is what we propose, that they listen to the Education Council of Catalonia and that they do, as did the Valencian Generalitat or the Barcelona Assembly and, therefore, that they prepare this change well, because it is already hoped that it will be a disaster, like the majority of actions that are being carried out in the field of education. Certainly, it would also be well if you withdrew the infamous campaign, of much displeasure, which with a requiem has outraged the educational community by putting even more lenja to the fire. Also in the area of planning, take account of climate change and, therefore, work in time to boost the adaptation of educational centres to climate change. Therefore, creating a diagnosis and a specific plan in a maximum of six months because it is actually able to apply in front of the coming summer, when there will again be heat waves. Because it is obvious that what they have done during this course has been leaving and leaving the educational centers alone. Secondly, we have a number of proposals from our own motion. Improve in relation to educational quality. And here we also put the elimination of school hours from the table in primary and secondary school. This is a basic, key question, asking the teachers to be able to do better and better their work. And if the government is willing, that it doesn't have it, it's moving from a presuppositional modification or enlargement, which is what we said and what we're proposing in this young man. It cannot be that we follow the only territory of the State that we have not recovered this heritage of convergent governments, those that came to Europe to say that they were the best in austerity. Therefore, it is time for a social pact, to seek agreement with the unions and to put the teacher's pocket back in value and stop denying it, as is happening. Also, in the matter of quality, we claim that public places in the professional training needed are guaranteed because the gap that has passed in the guinea pig has not been repeated, which has left many students out of the system. And also, as for the pre-registration of primary and secondary, which is not converted into a public-to-concerted bizum, as it can pass. In the matter of transparency, quickly. There's enough arbitrariness in time to select the teachers. This has to be done, and therefore we ask you to amend and review all the legislation on this issue. They already have various complaints filed with the courts. It has to adapt to the new regulations of the LOMLOE, because also here what passes to Catalonia does not pass to other territories of the State. So, as I said to the beginning, we have a lot of challenges in education. The government must respond with better planning, better quality and transparency. And this young man, like all those who will come after other groups, is the umpteenth demonstration that a change of course is needed to calm the world's needles after a year of government and because prepotency has brought us to where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.119.0	To defend the papers presented, Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.120.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Also a greeting to the members of the educational community who accompany us, company of the union, and also representatives of families of Mary Ward School, Barcelona. The truth is that we share, to a large extent, the diagnosis that the spokesman of the commons made in the educational situation, and certainly of many other groups of this chamber, and that it corresponds perfectly to the atmosphere that is lived today and that it is breathing to the schools, to the institutes and to the schools of adults. And we can say that this course has not gone well, politically at least, and we have spoken to it many times in this hemisphere, in a context of years of abandonment of education. After a pandemic that has required a lot of everyone, but especially in the education sector, it has lacked sensitivity, lacks capacity and willingness to seek complicity and social agreements by the department at the time of pushing for change. To the point that these changes, therefore, have taken place against Parliament, against the educational community, against directions, against families, against trade unions, against municipalities or, at last, against movements of pedagogical renewal. Starting with the progress of the school calendar, an announcement for the President of the Generality, which has been linked to a compact day, with which we cannot agree for the lack of planning with which it has been made, which, moreover, can have negative effects in terms of increasing inequalities, among others, and, above all, without taking into account, therefore, the opinion of management, professorship, the sector of reading or the appropriate school council of Catalonia. We insisted that she should have postponed her implantation for one year. We voted for it on other occasions and, really, it's what we thought it could do better. Still, it didn't happen. And that's why, so, all the same and share it, we seem to be no longer wanting to contribute to creating more uncertainty than there is at these times. And, on the other hand, we do find that there would be enough room to get, even though it was in the extreme, to an agreement with the unions to reverse the details, to agree, at least, a calendar that incorporated also the return of the teaching hour to the primary and secondary teacher's own course. Today, as explained, nine waves were announced in September, and we ask the counselor not to lower his arms, to work, if necessary, without rest, so that we can start the course in education. And before the huge bureaucratic burden, the constant changes that affect the educational community, the demand grow in the centers, they sit this July until they reach an agreement. Mr. Argimon has secured more resources for sanitation. Therefore, we understand that education must not be less. And, what's he doing to the one who's had a historical claim from the unions, that they've been calling for a while, right? , the repeal of the decree of plants, I think there has already been enough opportunity to prove its effect over the years, that it is time to put in place a review and modification in order to put in mind the arbitrariness that can be produced, that it is produced, in fact, in certain selected processes, and to adapt the selection criteria to that of public office, with a greater need for transparency, that we do not have at these times. We have reached an agreement with the proposing group, that we have made a deal that I want to thank Congressman Jordan. And I hope, therefore, that if he takes note of this, he will review these decrees, because, to be sure, his best would also help to improve the environment, the collaboration and the functioning of many educational centres. And so we also share the need to adapt educational centres to climate change – we also bring it to our youth – and, therefore, in favour of promoting a plan to condition schools and institutes, taking advantage of recovery funds as well, and improving the energy efficiency of these public priority equipments, where children and young people, more than the pool of teachers, spend a lot of time, and every time with more chills and heat. And, on the other hand, there is also a point that I want to thank the commons, because they have accepted the thought of our group that refers to guaranteeing universal access to education, educational time that is not lectual, but on which they rotate every time more unequal. And, therefore, it is important that there are public policies of the Government of the Generality to ensure this fair access to education under these conditions of equality. And, for that reason, social pricing seemed to us to be a fairer formula than not gratuitous for everyone. And we understand that here, therefore, the government is very late and that, every second, it has to do something. And finally, we believe that the pre-registration process has demonstrated the need to guarantee public places in all educational areas, in all stages. Therefore, provide a public offer sufficient to avoid unintended displacements to centres that are not the ones requesting families. Now, despite that, at some point, then, we should debate what is best, if it is the public school of proximity, as we have always said, if it is other less popular and less sustainable approaches from the point of view of mobility, and we understand that the debate here is pending. For what it does to the offer of vocational training, we share that it is necessary to increase it, because the growth announced this own course will still be insufficient; we will unfortunately leave young people out of the system again. And then I'll also refer to the injustice that this pre-registration process has generated in relation to the student comes from other... adult schools or also battling. For what he does to inclusive school, we haven't seen in this year no gesture, no additional recourse for this. It would be good to recognize on the part of all the groups that the premise announced was insufficient, that if there is no novelty we will again have the proper course schools that do not have the inclusive character that we would want. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of most points of this motion, noting that much work remains to be done and that there is a different and shared educational governance, with much more resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.121.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.122.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, honourable Members... very good afternoon. This motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomera presents eight points that concern the beginning of the 2022-2023 school year, although we were very disappointed that issues of crucial importance are not addressed, such as, for example, school harassment; cyberbullying; the eradication, in short, of school barracks; the lack of transparency and consensus in the drafting of educational decrees on basic education, curricula, for example; the debate on the continuous day; the precarious work of the food monitors, of lleure educatiu in general; the abnormal policy of imposing monolingualism in Catalan; the closure or threat of closure of multiple schools of concertation, and the reprobation of the Lord Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray, when so many times they have repeated it here. We are going to vote, despite all this, in favour of a few points, because we understand that they are certain – they are certain, yes – they are based on common sense and, moreover, they are claims that we have usually explained throughout the legislature. However, by appealing to your supposed democratic, conciliator, assembly, we have sent you four amendments, through which we wanted to improve the text, improve the motion or, at least, initiate a constructive debate with you, a constructive, positive dialogue, in order to arrive at some compromise that could have the most beneficial effect on the educational community. However, we have not received any reply, not even a courtesy communication, of minimal education, saying that they do not accept them because they come from VOX, regardless of whether they are endorsed, these amendments, by 220,000 Catalans or whether they are correct or not. Mr Gallego a short time ago – Mr Gallego a short time ago – has disregarded the motion put forward by my colleague, Mrs Lazarus, saying that In Comú Pomera is always willing to debate civilly. What did you say? "It is an exercise of hypocritical cynicism, the motion of Mrs.Lázaro. Well, everyone will know what they have to defend. I will comment in some detail on your motion. We advocate a moratorium on the progress of the schedule of the school year, but we also believe it is appropriate – we have sent it to you through an amendment – that during the school year 22-23 the School Board should draw up an opinion to know whether or not it is appropriate to move forward also, or not, the school year 23-24. We are in favour of reversing cuts, of course, cuts in education, of eliminating a school hour in primary and secondary schools, of eliminating staffing decrees and thus avoiding the arbitrariness that occurs when selecting teaching staff, which, as we know, must be governed by the principles of public service selection. We think it is very right to encourage, yes, the adaptation of educational establishments to changes in temperatures throughout the year, which exist and have existed all their lives, but, please, without the collection of climate ideology, please. We also agree with the universal access of pupils to all out-of-school activities, with guaranteeing public places – it is true – but also concerted, and always by virtue of the demands of families and, moreover, without limiting the choice of the centre by zoning, both of compulsory education and of vocational training and baccalaureate. And finally, as far as the seventh point is concerned, obviously we are not at all in disagreement with any national pact, when we do not..., we are talking about our beloved region, Catalonia ; if we could possibly talk about a regional pact. What we do advocate is inclusive school, and also special school, which some forget. For that reason, we had proposed to them in an amendment to require the allocation of resources set out in Decree 150/2017 of 17 October for the education of pupils under an inclusive system to provide adequate care to pupils with special needs in regular and special education centres, which have not yet arrived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.123.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.124.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, special greetings to the union representatives and the collection of educators and educators in Catalonia, who will see their figure disappear, because at this time they have a contract that ends August 31st. Well, it looks like this late was education; we have three education motions on the table. We have a statement from the travel committee of all unions informing that the course will not start normally, as it has not finished normally the course we just left a few days ago. To the motion put forward by the commons, we would vote in favour of most points, if it is true that we can disagree in some respects. For example, in point 1 of the motion, he talks about establishing a moratorium on the progress of the school calendar. We bet on the derogation, don't we? , for the elimination, but I see that this decision has already been taken unilaterally, they disengage the recommendations of the School Council of Catalonia, that contracts and appointments have already been made because the teacher is incorporated... In fact, he has already joined the educational centres during this first week of July to make this order of calendars effective. A moratorium, at least, could guarantee that, from the outset, this application is even and we could extend this debate for a year. Referring to this contract and these appointments from this faculty that has already joined the educational centers, as I say, this week, many of them without a nomination on July 1st... And what do you mean? That we have a large number of interns and interns at our educational centres, that come from the teaching staff bag, that have been making replacements or covering vacancies during this course, that lshi has finished the nomination and that, due to this unilateral emergency decision without planning, they have had to incorporate on July 1st to many educational centers without their nomination having been carried out. And that means that we have people who have gone to the educational centers to work without contract, in a public administration. As for the rest of the points... "Push a social pact with the teaching unions to reverse the retail trades. Of course, we would vote yes to this point, because it is an aspect that we defend. We are defending the education community, and that, Mr. Counselor, includes unions representing the education community, chosen for both teachers and teachers because they make this representation task. Now, with point number three, we can't agree. We will not vote in favour of this point, because it talks about ‘review, modify or delete, if necessary, the decree of autonomy of centres, the decree of directions and provision of places of work. For us, the suppression of the plant law is not negotiable, it cannot be subject to the criteria of the department. And, as this councillor has said on many occasions, they will review those cases where the contract is not being done the way it is. It's that in all cases it's not going the same way, because that's why there's a teaching staff bag, that straightens all the teachers in order of experience, training, qualifications. And the more doors in the bag, the more you're in order. And it can't be that this order has a decree that you decide to clear it and not to ignore it, to ignore it, and to give this power to the addresses to decide who is part of their plants, who is left and who isn't left. Because we have found cases of people, especially women... to you, who speaks that this advance in school, that this advance in the five-day calendar is a feminist measure, we remind you that there are women who have lost their place to get pregnant, have lost their place because they were low in motherhood and low in malaise, and have seen that the directors and directors of different educational centres have not renewed and have not made this claim for their continued presence before these falls. That would be a feminist measure, not advancing the five-day calendar. And, therefore, this is not negotiable for us. And we're betting on the repeal of this plant decree, which is neither democratic nor part of it. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] of a public system – and I finish, President – of education. In the same way that we control contracts to the rest of the Administration's space, it cannot be that the contract is allowed in our public education system. I – I finish, President – will also vote in favour of point 7, but with a little reflection. Here it refers to the timing of the implementation of this decree. What's the time to schedule? It's a decree from 2017. It's 2022. It should not be scheduled for its application; it should be deployed. And we will not allow it to be tanchine or special education centres, or that there has been a breakdown of resources and professionals at the educational centres with students with specific educational support needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.125.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Judith Toronjo has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.126.0	Good afternoon, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies and the members of the educational community who today accompany us in this plenary... Today, to the motion presented by En Comú Pomera on the beginning of the 2022-2023 school year, it is set to manifest, without any doubt, the phonenal paper, but also vertebrator, which occupies education to our society, as a piece of progress, country, but, moreover, also with this need for consensus and continuous dialogue among all the actors that conform it. An opportunity, therefore, to manifest the model of Catalan school that we defended from Junts per Catalunya. In this sense, before explaining some of the elements, arguments and the debate that we have brought to this House, I would like to highlight how the groups that we support to the Government have presented a total of new ideas, with the will of consent, of agreeing to adjust to the reality and, above all, to frame the backs of the new course facing the end of September, although not all have been accepted. And, therefore, we ask for a separate vote from some of them. Returning, as I said, to the arguments of the young man, from Juntes per Catalunya, we defend the model of school with a just financing, with a premise, as was presented last month of December by Councillor Giró, expansion, the highest of history. In concrete terms, for what it does... in the field of education, with an increase of more than 1,000_million euros respect the premise of the previous exercise and that it has allowed the Department of Education to manage these 6,681_million euros. We therefore bet on an educational model with a transformative vision, a vision of the future that starts from two pillars, which are and must continue to be fundamental, because they come from political consensus and social consensus. The first is linguistic immersion, because, despite the number of interferences that we have seen repeatedly from the courts to the català, from the Junts we celebrate that the proper course begins without the imposition of twenty-and-five percent of castella in the classrooms, maintaining, therefore, immersion, maintaining, therefore, the català as a vehicle language and protecting the teachers and doctors of the center. Togaes don't have space in our classrooms, and as we put it today to manifest from this Parliament. For another band, the second e..., or, as the second foundation, I would like to talk about the Education Service of Catalonia, a model of public service unique, successful to our country, that integrates and has traditionally integrated the public initiative, but also the social one. And we have overcome this dichotomy once and for all, in which the Catalonian Parliament has also often focused, between the public centres and the concerted centres, in order to advance towards an effective integration within the common project that we defend all public services. And, in this sense, we must continue to work for universalization, yes, to do it from zero to three years, and starting with I2 and free for all centers before the benefits that, without any doubt, means guaranteeing schooling to children. In addition to the social commitment of the Education Service of Catalonia, I would also like today to focus specifically on the pact against school segregation and on the inclusive school model. Highlight how, through different measures, in this case, through the conjunction of the Department of Education with the assemblies, with the local authorities, has worked in this pre-registration, detecting students in a vulnerable situation to realize the reserve of places and to bring to term a balanced distribution within the territory. And no less important, the last point of the motion speaks about one of the most important aspects of this legislature for Junts for Catalonia: the impulse of vocational training. And it is that, before the increase in the demand of young people or not so young to achieve a training much closer than the incorporation of them into the labour market, but that, moreover, also incorporates this practical approach to dual professional training, encanny has begun this increase of the offer with the map of needy take away the needs of the productive and business fabric and the demands of the territory in face-to-face manner, but also, yes, in online manner. And, finally, in the question that I wanted to get back from Congressman Jordan today, she also made a manifesto as the educational community in our country is very exhausted by the impact of the pandemic. And that's it, we can't agree more. Precisely, for this reason we have presented a later thought the State at the impulse of a specific program to attend to vulnerability, something that we have demanded from Juntes on numerous occasions before the need to maintain the coveted foundations of guany. Because we have to make it clear: who has eliminated the covid funds is not the Government of the Generality, but the Government of the Spanish State, and we must all be strong, so that we all go back to the same band and for the interests of Catalans and Catalans, which is what he is looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.127.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And, finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word the deputy Jordi Albert, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.128.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, companies Cid and company Albiach... Representatives of educational community; of unions; Ikram Assaghir, who also accompanied us today, the best note of selectivity to the city of Terrassa, and also the Teresa Ciurana, the director of the city of Terrassa, thank you for being here. Social educators, TIS, thank you too for being here. Good representation. And we like that you're still there – we like that you're still there – to live in direct and first person, so our work and our debate in your parliament. Today, monogram of education, monogram with three motions – of commons, of the CUP and of the Socialist Party. And, therefore, practically all the time we will be debating this issue. Also thank Deputy Jordi Jordan and also Magda Muñoz, the technique of the parliamentary group of the commons, which yesterday we were negotiating possible agreements and transactions. Unfortunately, we didn't get out, but I think we're very close. And I'm left with this, with this position; we're closer to what it may look like when we come out here to the Faristol. And, therefore, one of the nine items that we have tabled was accepted; we have not reached compromises with the rest. In any case – and with this I will close – there was a point of addition of a new point which we were pleased to have incorporated and which was related, precisely, to these covetous factors, which was given by Congresswoman Toronjo, who preceded me in the paragraph, but which for us, we thought was also important to point it out, because we also have to say the things as they are and framing them in the context in which they are. With regard to the first point of the young man, respect the calendar, he knows that our position is not of moratoria. Now, we do agree with the review and the analysis and the study of the application of this school progress: what can fail, what has worked well. And, therefore, from here, a learning to continue improving our educational system. And it's exactly the same thing that happens with the plant decree, with the center autonomy decree. We believe that there are situations that and as long as they are better, and there are situations that and as long as they are perfectable. And for us it's important that we get to the bottom of the question, we go on to modify what really doesn't work. There are situations that are donating in our educational system that we know you can't continue donating. And therefore, for example, one of the mechanisms that could be incorporated is that the directions of centres need to justify beforehand – to draw up a preceptual report – the decision they are taking to respect the professional education that is in their educational centre. And, therefore, if the decision is not to continue, we guarantee the rights to the self-defence of the workers and workers of our system so that they can exercise all the necessary complaints and so that the educational inspection can also act. And, therefore, give greater security to the workers and the workers of our system. We think we need to incorporate these better ones and, therefore, also review the concept of application of the plant decree. Other important questions: the social pact, a point on which a social pact is claimed. We agree that a social agreement must be reached, a social pact must be reached with the representatives of the workers and the workers, both in the area of the sectoral months, where, it is true, we would also like to see them annexed, to have them seated, and also in the framework of the committee. The representation at the sectoral table is one; the union representation on the vacancy committee is another. If we put the two together, we have the practically total representation of all the unions that are in the field of education. And it seems to me that it would be very interesting to review again the proposal of the department, which continues from the table, a proposal of the department that incorporates in the system for the coming course..., withdraws the teaching hour to the primary and, in view of the next course, withdraws the teaching hour to the secondary. Now, we also need to be clear – we also need to be clear –: to give up this proposal means to give up 1,400 more masters in the system, but to give up this proposal will not imply that there are 2,441 more endowments in the system to develop the whole inclusive system. And, finally, the question of social educators, who before with the company Cid, before I started my intervention, made reference. For us, it's a priority, it's kept in the system. There was an agreement for these covid funds to widen the course as well. This is the problem: that the agreement so long as there was continuity in the face of the coming course..., has gone away. We consider that here there is a responsibility of the State, because this agreement does not complete it. Even so, all the efforts we need, because we still have room to keep social educators and TIS in our education system, because it is essential that they continue to do their job, it is essential that they continue in the system. And, therefore, all the efforts so that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.129.0	So, after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.130.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... This one that presents us in Comú Podemos is the first – it has been said – of the three motions that we are debating in this plenary with regard to education and the 2022-2023 school year. The three motions have an ideological focus, which makes us not fully coincide with concrete proposals. Even in some cases, such as the measures taken in this young man, we agree quite a bit. In some of the concrete measures we may not match people or mica. In any case, it is perhaps no surprise that Ciutadans does not fill in with the often maximalist plans, which the Parliamentary Group of In Comú We can, in this case, on the beginning of course 22-23 in the public education service. No surprise, because we have a different vision of teaching in Catalonia. The public education system is essential for giving all our children and young people in Catalonia, with equal opportunities, the necessary tools for their personal development and access to knowledge. But we also have to value the concerted school, which does not compete with the public, but complements it. Both are of unquestionable quality and need to be defended. That said, I'm going to get into this young man's concrete plans. For what it does to the moratorium of a year in the advance of the school calendar on September 5th, from the point of view of Ciutadans we see no problem to advance the beginning of the course or to keep the school course until now. We believe that there is to be talk and that we cannot enter this issue, this debate, with dogmatic and untouchable positions. We do not see either the need to modify the autonomy decrees of centers or the provision of work places. From the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, we escape the uniforming effect, always down, that usually seek also from Podemos. Point 4 of the young man is the typical point of the nationalist and populist left, where they want to hang the green label. This proposal to encourage the adaptation of educational centres to climate change is interesting, but cannot be planted in four lines. We don't see it badly, but with this writing we won't give it any concrete support. With regard to the fifth point, it seems to us relevant and necessary to guarantee universal access for all students to out-of-school activities on an equitable basis, with social charges. We think it's a good measure to promote equity. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal. There are no other measures that would promote fairness and that would have to be implemented with general character in the Catalan public schools. Of course, we will also support the proposal to increase and guarantee public places of vocational training for all students, both face-to-face and distance. The sixth point, as it is written, generates doubts. We are not clear that the current situation, as could be deduced from the writing of this point, so that there is a displacement – perhaps they want to say a transfer – from the public school to the concert. The sooner we think the current process is just the other way around, right? Because if there is a displacement of school places is earlier from the school agreed to the public, because the offer of the school agreed is frozen from a long time ago, mainly by the will of the Department of Education. In any case, they already know that from Ciutadans we defend the need to count with a concerted school that adequately complements the public offer and facilitates the freedom of choice of center by the pairs of students. I also need to remind you that our position towards inclusive school does not coincide at all with your plans. It is clear that the school must be a tool for inclusion in equality, but we also recognize that there are students with special needs who must have special centres in which they have the true equality of opportunities we want for all Catalan students. Specific special education schools have an exceptional, widely accredited quality, and therefore need to continue to exist. And finally, speaking of equality, this is what we have been calling for a long time now for the Government of the Generality: that all young and young Catalans have the same opportunities as the children of the policies that govern us and the elites that dominate Catalan society. And this happens to have as many languages as the Spanish and English, together with the Catalan, with a twenty-i-five percent for each of these languages and a twenty-i-five percent for reading time to use as the official language that convinces depending on the specific situation of each center. And that, ladies and gentlemen of Commune We can, in your young man does not come out by place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.131.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, she has the word, then the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.132.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I also take the opportunity to greet all members of the educational community, unions who are with us today and also representatives of the AMPA of Mary Ward College, who will then have the opportunity to speak in another of the education motions. It is true that today we have three motions that highlight the concern we have with the whole educational issue. The Deputy for Junts said that when it comes to education, we must try to achieve dialogue and consensus. Well, here's not one thing or the other, no dialogue or consensus, Mr Cambray. In fact, the only consensus there is that we agree that you are not managing well. You've been at the head of the department for a year, and I've lost track of the strikes that have called you; I think we're going for the seven, plus the one they announced today for September. That's what you have to think about. You, many times, when you come here, talk about having the support of the educational community. Obviously not. And what I should do, instead of repeating what I constantly do to see if someone gets caught, is sit down with the unions to talk, sit down with the educational community to talk. It is that you are being declared a non-grateful person in some centers, Mr Cambray; it is that it is serious. In addition, they accuse him of having an intransigent attitude in many cases, of having a little negotiating character. When you come here and deal with opposition groups, you also have a tone..., as let me tell you that on some occasions it is quite arrogant, and it seems that you live from your back to the reality of what is happening in Catalonia's education. I mean, not just what we've been commenting on in the last few weeks on the subject of the twenty-five-per-cent Spanish, that you know perfectly well what I think, and I don't think we need to come in here today, because we have other issues, and I'm convinced that the people who are in the audience want us to talk about them too. We have a cut-off situation over ten years ago. What about this subject? We have the faculty working in conditions that are not worthy, with a high rate of precariousness and with a high rate of temporality as well. You have also placed them – now talking about the subject of twenty-five_per_cent – in a situation of total legal insecurity. It is true that they have saved the furniture with the decree and the law of the Socialist Party, but let's see what happens in the coming weeks. And what is not normal is that you transfer that responsibility and insecurity to the directors of the centers and to the teachers. You too, with the subject of the curriculum, are impoverishing the curriculum, Mr Cambray, and you do not have that consensus you always talk about, you do not have the support of the educational community. And you would do well, I insist, to listen to them. If you don't want to listen to us, listen to them. I told you once that you do not want to meet with them and, when you meet, because it does wrong, well, with pacts that are already closed and that, therefore, it is impossible to negotiate absolutely nothing. You here today have no choice but to listen to us, and again I insist that you do some reflection and self-criticism in this regard. Many of the proposals that today – now we are discussing that of the group of the commons, we have another of the Socialist Party, another of the CUP –..., and many of the points are coincident with the topic of the progress of the school calendar, which I asked you also a week ago, and you told me that, well, this was all benefits in every way – pedagogical, conciliation. It is not so – it is not so – Mr Cambray. I repeat: the consensus you have on the other side, that we are more the political formations that we tell you to think about the timetable, to back off with this decision. Instead of doing those advertising campaigns – which sincerely embarrass others, and I think they should change their creative advertising, sincerely – I insist, let's really think: do you think there are those really pedagogical benefits? Explain them, because I've asked you several times, and you don't explain them to me. Do you believe that this helps families to reconcile? Explain to us what it is based on, because the teacher is already telling you that it does not give you time to prepare the course, because it is precisely in those weeks... They are not at home, they are in the center working, because they have to prepare the course, because they have to meet the students, because they have to transfer functions, etc.. There is consensus among the opposition groups that on the subject of the progress of the timetable you have hastened, have done so unilaterally and should rectify. With the theme of abolishing the decree of templates, the group of the commons talks about revising, modifying or even deleting. We are going to vote in favour of this point, although it is true that we are closer to the position, in this case, of the CUP, with the deletion of the decree of templates, but it seems to us that one point is not incompatible with the other. And, therefore, we are going to vote in favour too. With the theme..., item 4, which talks about the climate emergency – that maybe I would have chosen another wording. But it is true that we are suffering from heat waves, which up to now have perhaps not been so acute, and we have more than a thousand barracks in Catalonia; we have many students studying in barracks with conditions that are not the best to be able to study. And the same happens in winter, with peaks of cold in which we do not have the necessary conditions. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Also, for example, we will vote – I am running out of time, but, well, we will have the opportunity in the following motions –..., we will also vote in favour of the subject of vocational training places. In short, Mr Cambray, you have many open fronts, and instead of trying to close them, what you do is open new fronts. Therefore, I again insist on the issue of responsibility, listening and lawmaking, especially thinking about improving working conditions and also improving the educational level in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.133.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.134.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... well, in relation to the papers, I'd like to thank the ones that Mrs. Niubó presented to us, which we have accepted, because we think they're on the line too, and, therefore, the tariff, right? , in all these extracurricular and lleure world activities. We have been pleased, with the CUP, to be able to negotiate the text on the decree of seedlings, why precisely, right? – It has already been said a few moments ago – we think it could be modified – and let's not leave the door locked – that this regulation be abolished, as the unions have asked us, basically because it is possible to approve here today in the plenary and that, therefore, the government must act with respect. And, in relation to the different questions raised by Esquerra Republicana and Juntes, of course, you say: "No, there is a presumption of more than 1,000_million. But it is that, at times, they are not giving, for example, the certainty to seventy social workers – seventy – from this great premise for September, whether they have to return or not. Or, as I've already told you before, they're talking about... always pulling pilots out; they're talking, aren't they? , of these extraordinary things, which are that, extraordinary. Therefore, we have not accepted most of its considerations, because they are all in the line of diluting commitments, dilating time, throwing pilots out and, in no case, assuming what the educational community is asking for, that it is not just a change of attitude at the councilhouse, but at the conjunction of the Government of Esquerra and Junts, which, repeatedly, is not listening to the cry of the educational community, as is seen throughout this course and as today itself has been demonstrated again. So, we think it's party time, it's not word time. It's time to find solutions. It's time to bet on education, to do everything you need and everything you can, that you can still do, and why we're going back to education following the pride and engine of our country. And that's where our group will be and continue to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.135.0	So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that the vote on this point will have somewhere this late, one time we finish the twenty-four point of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year]] [[302-00173/13]] Let's move on to point 21, the motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.136.0	Well, thank you again, Counselor, President. Well, in this young man we wanted to gather and observe the climate of discomfort of the educational community, a disaffection that worries us, and very much, and urge the government to take urgent action to reverse this situation and strengthen the education system. The truth is that we are making a very negative balance of how we have politically developed this school course that we have just finished, of the fact that the department, as it said before, has not wanted or has not known how to find these social agreements, these complicitys to push the changes, knowing that, without these agreements and without this complicity, the changes hardly tend to succeed. And, in addition, they are demanding a very abandoned educational community in the past years and now exhausted for the management of the pandemic. And we are very concerned, as I said, about the proper course, because this disaffection that is seen these last weeks, these months, does not turn positively into the quality of educational care. Before yesterday, the Government announced an increase in the number of professional staff at the educational centres with 2,441 staff, between teachers and staff of education and administration. But on the other hand, it has not been said, or it has not been said quite clearly, that the 5,500 contracts of covid reinforcement personnel, which have been so useful, so necessary, to the educational centres, contributing to an important educational improvement, will not be renewed. So, well, if they increase the endowments in almost 2,500, but they blend in 5,500, the news is that the next course will start with three thousand fewer professional students at the schools. And that again is a cause for concern, and a cause for great concern. And this is why we propose to the young people to recover, for this very course, the teaching and educational support resources of the centres with more complexities that started the course in detail, to preserve the staff of educational assistance to all centres, including educators and social educators – and here other autonomous communities have done it – and to increase it in those schools and institutes that, with current events, have seen their complexity increased. Because the next course cannot start with new details, we cannot add new details to the current discomfort. And, second of all, inclusive school can't wait any longer. We want to know the education model that the Department of Education has from the first cycle of childhood education to the post-compulsory level. What inclusive school model? Because one year ago we didn't understand any change in the management for what it does to this model of school. And we want to know not only the model, but also the presuppositional availability to deploy it, in view of the shortcomings that appear by appearance, in the study commission for the deployment of the inclusive school, we note. The Parliament... the councilman, forgive me, spoke of an open departure. So let's get going, don't wait any longer. Let's start the course with this open game, because it's a country, model and equal opportunity theme. And, of course, I have a plan of stumbling in the secondary school with a compromise to reduce the ration, without which the inclusiveness at the institute will not be or is real. For what it does to the progress of the calendar, we have said before that we do not want to contribute to generating more uncertainty. We regret this decision that has come, despite our opposition, to the whole educational community. And what we are asking here is a study of the social, economic and educational impact of this advance, linked to a reduction of the day throughout September, which assessed the fairness and educational quality of this decision and that, in any case, the proper course we can rethink this decision based on the results of this study, precisely to improve the planning and its application. That seems to us to be the best service we can do. And we also ask for other measures, such as a timetable for the construction, improvement or expansion of educational centres, to include this plan to improve the energy efficiency of equipment. Intensify the execution of the planned works, because we see that they are encouraging, they are reposting again. An express formation to the educational centers about the new curricula; also about their assessment already in the first trimester of this course, and a plan to improve the skills in English or a third language. Or the necessary flexibility in exceptional cases, such as those suffered by parents and mothers of the Mary Ward school in Barcelona, who accompany us, who still do not know where their children will be educated in their own course, in a process where they have not been able to access the education system, nor on conditions of equality, nor have they guaranteed freedom of choice of centres because of an irresponsible private title, in this case, and a lack of flexibility of the department. And, for all this, it extends again to the department, to the government; we will not tire of doing so. Councillor Cambray, we ask you to fight, as did Councillor Argimon. If you bring an educational shock plan with a change of credit, from our group we will collect it. And, in short, we understand that this course, which has been repeated and which we have experienced, cannot be repeated again. We know that it will start with new mobilizations, and we ask again, please, the Government to take into account the difficult situation facing education and to take urgent steps to strengthen and also to pacify the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.137.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.138.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, as we said, we're still on the subject of education. The truth is that the Socialist Party presents us with a very hard-working motion, which captures many of the demands of the educational community, many issues that we have dealt with in this Parliament condensed in a motion. And I therefore say that we are going to vote in favour of all the points. I believe that the first is fundamental, and that is what we are claiming here today: the widespread malaise that exists in the educational community, for all the problems that we have mentioned in the previous point, and especially – I repeat – Mr Cambray, because of his attitude, which is one of the points that specifically reproach him in these virtually non-existent negotiations, I say to him. And I therefore believe that it is also important that, from Parliament, we can visualize this widespread malaise. In point 3... Before I had given time to comment on the motion of the commons, which spoke on the subject of inclusive education. We, of course, are in favour of inclusive education, but we like the nuance that introduces the Socialist Party motion, because, first, to have an inclusive quality education we need resources, we need money that is not now, and, second, it is true that we have to recognize that there are specific cases that require a unique project. And I believe that this is best reflected in this point, which, moreover, is where several amendments have been accepted, and I believe that there is a very complete point. And, of course, yes, inclusive education, resources for inclusiveness, but also taking into account these particularities in cases where it becomes very difficult to power..., well, to have in other centers people who have other problems and other difficulties much more aggravated in this regard. We therefore like this point more and we will vote in favour. I have not said this before, but in the case of the commons we are going to abstain, but simply because of this fact. More stuff here. For example, when it comes to introducing for the next course a single registration procedure, a pre-registration procedure for middle and higher education courses that does not discriminate against pupils who come from high school or who come from the adult scales. It is clear that this is a problem that we have encountered. And therefore, this point is intended to alleviate those deficits that we have seen and those irregularities that we have seen in that regard. Points 6 and 7 – before greeting the representatives of the AMPA of Mary Ward College – speak precisely of their case. We had tabled an amendment to point 6 in which we spoke specifically about the centre and quoted the centre, because we also thought it important to see the problem here today. It was not possible to include it in the final text, but the honourable Member said so in her speech. Clearly this point refers to this exceptional and extraordinary case with which the parents of the Mary Ward school, which has suddenly closed, just when the registration period had ended and, therefore, they have been discriminated against in respect of the other families, who have been able to choose center. They have to conform to the vacancies, or that is the solution given to them by the department. But it seems to me that we are talking about a matter of rights, counselor, and I believe that there are ways and means to be able to reverse this situation, which, I insist, is extraordinary, it is exceptional. We are not talking about generalizing, but we are talking about the specific case. The parents pointed out a solution that I know has been sent to both the consortium and the Department of Education; that is, without an answer from them. But we want to echo it, which is exactly what we were coming..., what we had picked up in that amendment. There are centres with pre-approved lines. If these lines were to be set up and agreed upon, parents who have run out of places, students who have run out of places, I insist, because of this exceptional situation, would be able to access the school they have chosen. And so, therefore, their rights would not be discriminated against, as, I insist, has happened in these circumstances. Therefore, from here I ask you to understand in this sense, especially that you listen to the families, who are in a desperate situation, that you do not know where your children are going to study next year, that you do not know if the brothers will be able to continue together, that you do not know if perhaps that center is still in school or not, etc.. I think it is important that you meet with them, listen to them and try to find a solution, I insist, at least for this particular case. You yourself, the other day, in the control session last week, recognized the exceptionality of the case and, therefore, I ask you here for an effort of understanding. And lastly – which I have only twenty-three seconds left – I want to stop at point 10, where the Socialist Party is talking about pushing forward a plan to improve skills in English, which is very good and seems great to us. But, of course, what about the Castilian? Because I want to remind you that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has had to paralyse the enforced execution of the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent because of its law, because of that language law that you have agreed with the parties that support the government, with Junts per Catalunya, with the commons and with Esquerra Republicana. You tried to sell us cat for hare, saying that this was for nothing against the sentence, that I didn't mean, that what I wanted was to shield the Castilian. And yet, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has thrown them down, warns us that there may be unconstitutional flaws in this law. And thanks to you, in September of this year, when the course begins, parents will have to fight again if their children do just one more Spanish subject. I don't know if you, you, in that speech in which, I insist, you tried to sell us the bike..., I don't know if it was the fruit of naivety. If so, if you really thought that this would not prejudice the sentence of twenty-five per cent, you have an exceptional remedy in your hands, which is the appeal of unconstitutionality of the Government, that if you presented it would paralyze the application of this law and this decree. I'm afraid you're not going to do it, because even if you guys here are good and want us, I insist, to sell the bike...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.139.0	Mrs. Roldán, you should finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.140.0	...we already know them by heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.141.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.142.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin this intervention by welcoming the members of the AMPA of Mary Ward School in Barcelona, and other representatives of the educational community of our community who today suffer the consequences of the lack of due diligence, often of the Autonomous Administration in the field of education. In this sense, I believe that the young man who presents us today with the Socialist Party of Catalonia is a very complete and very accessible young man in all his extremes, in all his points, which we value in a very positive sense. And obviously, Mrs. Niubó, as usual when you're behind this class of motions, it's a very reasonable young man, indeed. We will support most of the points; in fact, to the totality of the points, even though there are some that seem to us, therefore, perhaps a little escape, to say the least kind, as is, for example, point 13, when it speaks of "guaranteeing, before the beginning of the 2022-2023 course, the economic resources necessary to activate a plan of shock that allows the educational system to be strengthened. It seems to us that it is perhaps a little inconcrete, and we believe that it is time to tell the Government of the Generality things in a much more precise, much more decisive way, because we believe that in aspects such as, for example, the one that is constantly hovering over this debate..., the case of Mary Ward School is a paradigmatic case of up to what point the Government leaves behind its obligations at the time of protecting a fundamental right that recognizes our Constitution, that it is the right to education in all its aspects, in all its points of Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution, which I believe are not very diligent on the part of the Council. In this sense, I would like to draw attention to what I suppose for a couple that your school will notify you almost at the end of the course – in fact, at the end of the course, when the school enrolment period is not even open – that the school will close and that the coming course will not have school to school its children, they will not know where their children will go, if they can keep the Germans together, if they can, in short, continue with their school life and with the educational community in which they were developing or developing, for some years, the education of their children. I think this is a paradigmatic case of a lack of political will. Here's the chance to give an individualized response to the Mary Ward school pair. And that is why we have presented a message that we believe is absolutely acceptable and that we regret, Mrs Niubó, that it is not accepted. In our opinion, what would be important is to create, in the case of the teaching inspectorate attached to the Barcelona Education Consortium, a special team of inspectors responsible for solving the extraordinary needs of students of the Mary Ward Centre. It is obvious that there is an exceptional situation here, and this exceptional situation requires, like others, exceptional solutions. And the Government of the Generality, as is often done with these questions, what it does is to look at another band and not give an answer to the parents of this school, so that, logically, they demand an individualized answer and that they also respect their preferences, since they have not had the same opportunities as the rest of the parents we have had at the time of pre-registration and registration of our children in front of the coming course. It is a case that reminds me of other cases that we are seeing recently in Catalonia, which have a willingness to manifest, to our mind, maximalist of the Government of the Generality, which is, unfortunately, shared, in many respects, also for other parties of this chamber, also of the Socialist Party, with excessive maximalism, for example, in the question of inclusive education. We have always said: "Inclusive education, yes; special education, too. This is why we believe that the importance of special education, of how it is important, for families who have children with some problem, with some special need for education, that they can be there where they are more comfortable and where their development can be, let us say, deeper and more friendly with their characteristics. This is the case, for example, of the El Brot school, by Sant Joan Despí, on which we have been talking with members of the governing parties, and I also know that there has been an argument with the government, but it seems that, for the moment, without a very satisfactory response. Let's hope I've changed that. On the other hand, one of the other problems facing education in Catalonia – not only the acquaintances of the barracks, of the excessive drop-out – is clearly also the question of the lack of respect for the right of the parents, that we have the parents of Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia to educate our children – and I will forgive, President, in short, I will not cheat on the other –... that we have the parents of Catalonia to educate our children both in Catalan and in Castilian. It is obvious that angled language is an instrument, a tool that will serve our children in many ways in the future. The Spanish language as well, and the Catalan language as well. But we live in a society that is essentially bilingual, and therefore this must be recognised in the education of our infants. It is a pity that the law that has approved the separatist parties with the PSC and the commons has allowed or forced the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to make a decision that will ultimately leave the linguistic rights of the citizens of Catalonia unmanaged. So good the Government of Spain does not fail to perform its functions and submit an appeal, even though it is unlikely, of unconstitutionality with suspensive effects on this law that clearly violates the individual rights of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen; thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.143.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr. Joan Garriga continues to have the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.144.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, at the first point of this young man, we agree that the education community has a general discomfort, and we also urge the government to take urgent steps to reverse this situation and strengthen the education system. We are also in favour of this motion to recover the teaching and educational support resources of more complex educational centres, to strengthen the inclusive educational model. In this sense, we have presented an issue – which, of course, I suppose has not been read – that respects the theme of special education, incorporating it from this possibility of choice of parents and families. We understand that I didn't even look at him, because neither... how he sees VOX, I guess it doesn't matter anymore, does it? We are also in favour of transferring sufficient resources to the upper secondary schools. We have also tabled amendments to incorporate into these requests that you make in support of public school... so to support schools of social initiative, the concerted school, and not just the public school. But let me get into the background of other points related to school planning, which are pre-registration, school areas, opening, maintenance, closure of schools, creation of new places and funding. Look, in VOX we believe that in democracy – and always, but especially in democracy – education must be planned under the right of parents to educate their children according to their beliefs, with three fundamental axes: plurality, freedom and funding. Plurality. You always talk – I take advantage of the fact that you are here, Mr. Counsellor –..., public school, secular, mixed, inclusive and Catalan. From VOX we believe in the plurality of educational models, different options: public and private, lay or religious, mixed or differentiated, with uniform or without, inclusive or special..., in Catalan, Spanish, bilingual or trilingual. This is achieved by plurality. And how is this plurality achieved? Ending the zoning that you defend – everyone in this chamber, except VOX – because not all areas have the same plurality of educational centers. And it is achieved with something that costs the Lord Counselor a great deal, which is to respect the difference. And this plurality is necessary so that there can be something fundamental in education and in many aspects of life, which is freedom. Because planning, which is what this motion is about, must revolve around the freedom of parents, and to do so we must plan school places by consulting parents first. There are successful, successful educational models that many parents want to take their children to that school. So do your best to do your best, to get new buildings, to incorporate these educational models into public schools. Open your mind. Do not close, and believe in the plurality, difference and freedom of parents. And the pre-registration, which you make a few months before..., does not help to plan by virtue of the demand, but quite the contrary. Do not determine the lines per course according to the requests you want, that is, your free will, but regarding the requests of the schools. They are not flexible and must be so with the ratios so that it adapts to the birth and the demand of the moment. And, in order for plurality to exist and freedom to be exercised, it is essential to ensure good financing, to stop financing private centers with concerts. Because what you do with the concerts is blackmail; you..., "or apply a model that I tell you or not is a concert, as has happened, for example, with Mary Ward College. Do not discriminate against educational activities such as differentiated school, which is as legitimate as mixed school or special school, and do not discriminate against the school of social initiative in relation to the public; they deserve the same funding, whether the holder is a city council, the State, the Generalitat, a foundation, a religious order or an entrepreneur in the world of education. And so our star proposal to guarantee this freedom and this plurality of educational options, which is the school check, so that the family can freely choose what it wants for their children, the school that they think is best for their children, giving parents the money, the resources they have paid through taxes, and not the centers, giving freedom so that they can go to a private school, a public school, without there being elite schools where only those who have more resources can go, because through the school check we would end up with those elite schools, which only those who have more resources can go, and avoiding what you do, which is to impose a single model for everyone. Counselor – I have thirty seconds left – I wanted to take advantage of it to demand it with all the humility of the world... Now you have another motion, then I don't know if you have a lot of work, but I think it would be good if you sat down with the parents of Mary Ward school, who are very worried and very distressed, reach out to them, respect their decision, talk to them and make them suffer no more. I beg you, Mr. Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.145.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, he continues to have the words of Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.146.0	Thank you, President. Thank you so much. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. Members of the educational community, Mary Ward school couples, good afternoon to all. We are debating the motion following the inquiry that the Socialist Group presented on the planning of the school year. They have rejected, as always, many issues, some transactions; some have been accepted, others have been rejected. I found myself missing a few nuances that were interesting to reflect on. How do you approach this planning from Junts? In the first place, with great satisfaction, because the robes, in September, will not be in the classrooms, with this twenty-five percent of the castle that had sentenced us. I, how do we approach this planning of the new school year from Junts? So we'll start at the end. The point number 13 speaks of a platoon of xoc, a platoon of xoc that can be activated through gratuitousness, through the decline of the ratios, through the resources for the students with specific needs of educational support, the substitution of thirds in myths, the complement of the direction and the contemplation of the contract of the most docents for the proper course. This, on a assumption that the councillor turned..., were the assumptions of 1,000_million plus increment, some assumptions..., the most social of the history and that, therefore, we believe that they must help reverse what you just said the motion in its point 1, reverse the general discomfort of this course. We believe that with this plan we must be able to reverse this discomfort. The young lady has different points. There's a point on the calendar, point 11. The counselor likes to talk about putting the student in the center, and we will vote in favour of this point calling for an impact study on this new implementation of the calendar. We believe that we need data, we need to have arguments, instruments to evaluate it, correct it if it was the case, and, if not, then pull it forward and assess if it is certainly a tool as it is to be and as we claim to be, of transformation and of better educational quality. In the fifth point, on the procedure of pre-registration of the degrees of middle and upper cycle of the professional formation, a couple of things. We believe that it is good, the action that has begun to be taken, this new model of integrated training, but we also believe – and we do a conceptual abstention – that under the concept of continuing education assessment is to be introduced or to be sought to include or work to include pupils who come from batting, pupils who come from other cycles, pupils who come from adult school, because, if not conceptually, it seems as if there was a penalty for pupils who have found themselves in this situation, and we believe that this is also an educational continuation. Point 8, point on the gratuity of I2. We believe that the gratuity of I2 is a tool, but that the objective is universality. And in order to achieve this universality we believe that we need to work in universality; we may need to postpone 0 and 1, and we certainly need to create nine public places. Nine public places do not mean only in public schools, but also through the Education Service of Catalonia, with the double network, count with the concertation and count, above all, with the social initiative concertation, because they are part of the solution of this universality of the I2. In point 7, we are absolutely in favour of legislating, of regulating, of protocol·litating these irresponsible private owners who have arrived at situations like that of Mary Ward School. This has to be solved. There are different situations, all with very different cases, but we need to accompany the boys and girls, the boys and boys, the parents at this school. We think this department has started, and the consortium needs to continue this work. And already in the last few seconds that remain, it seems to me that it is a mistake to point out that there has been a rejection of a slogan in point 2 where the State set out to promote a specific program of better attention to vulnerability with the incorporation of professional profiles such as social educators. It seems to us that it is not a waste that Catalonia, that brings a dinosaur and that I am a new..., then, from the Socialist Group it is made a letter to the King in which we remain unable even to recover some covid funds that would solve the role of social educators. Nothing more, President, but nothing less. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.147.0	And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the words of the deputy Irene Aragonès, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.148.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, also, to accompany us this late... Welcome, collectius of the educational community. They set a motion on the planning of the 22-23 course where is highlighted this study of the social and economic impact for the advancement of the calendar, free bressol schools and measures for segregation. Although in this later departure we are surprised to have eliminated part of the transaction we proposed avoiding the increase in school segregation with the admission of this new student, we understand that they stand firm in the pact against segregation and continue and remain faithful to the struggle against segregation. They're talking about retrieving resources; not one has been lost. On the contrary, those centres that had lost complexity, were kept additional resources, euro to euro. And, therefore, with the new complexity study for the coming course, not only have the centres that gain complexity increased resources, but they have kept resources in the centres that lose it. Defend a unique pre-registration procedure for the format cycle. We cannot forget or forget the fight to reduce premature abandonment, as it is a pre-reincorporation sglad. Obviously it is necessary to increase the index of re-entry into the education system and obviously we must accompany those students who at some point have abandoned it, but to promote the formation continuity of young people who finish a quarter of ESO, those who have made a training and insertion program – account, younger than different years, we are talking about younger than divided years – is to guarantee them professional skills and provide them with opportunities for the future to prevent them from giving up. And don't discriminate against anyone; it's a social issue. Seventeen-year-olds who can guarantee their continuity, because their premature abandonment will certainly provoke them, would provoke them with great certainty that they will not get back into the education system. And that risk we can't run, we don't want to run. For another band, their placement of the oral and written skills in foreign language is with little concreteness. The various programs and performances for the better of the foreign language proficiency of high school students are already driving with the English teacher's endowment for unfolding. Well, until now, your motions, alternate government programs. They also dispelled us with a new terminology, and they call it a sham. I have a doubt, or so, about the plans to increase educational resources, I would say that they must be accompanied by economic resources, accompanied by data, economic resources. And, therefore, what really is your proposal to how they intend to increase resources so that they can put an end to this set of demands they propose? Because it is because, moreover, they are refusing to incorporate our theme of addiction, that we proposed them so that the Government of the State drives this specific program to improve attention to vulnerability with the incorporation of professional profiles such as social educators, TEIs, social integrators and special education educators. I, in fact, would buy them everything from the young man. Well, maybe not yet, huh? Nor would I want to be overly ambitious, but I make a proposal: I enter to play on the proper assumptions. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're the main opposition group. Therefore, we have opportunities to make all these proposals or other futures that are reasonable, that are necessary, that some are due in time, that we can certainly find many points of agreement. Put them down, put them in the negotiating table of assumptions. It's a stretcher. She was talking about hand-extensive. To the Republican Left, the extended hand. And you don't have to take responsibility and give up pride and satisfaction – why not? – to have participated in the better of some assumptions, in this case, of Education. The way is not to give up on raising assumptions and then dedicate the rest of the year to changing consensus and conditioning the model of the education system with successive proposals for resolution to the committee of turn, of motions or now with plans of coc. The Education Department has taken measures by 2023 with the aim of strengthening the education system: free of charge to children 2, the decrease in rates, the decree of admissions, substitutions to third parties..., in mediums [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I just went ahead, president – the addition of direction and now, with these new dates of schooling, contracting more teachers. Therefore, better to strengthen our education system, an education system that we need to continue working together because we want it much better to defend this Catalan school and that is equal opportunities so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.149.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.150.0	Thank you, President. Well, as has already been said, this late, monogram on education. Thank you..., I almost want to thank that this time some of the members of the government have come to appreciate the points of the motion and not to complain about their policies – as they did to the previous motion – and everything that had done well in the department, taking advantage of the motion on the table. I think we should go in and evaluate the points; I almost appreciate it that he did it in this young man. As for the motion presented by the Socialist Party, in its point 1, we are completely in agreement, right? "The Catalonian Parliament notes the general feeling of malaise in the educational community and urges the Government to take urgent measures to reverse this situation and strengthen the education system. We all know that the management of the department during this course has been disastrous, that the educational community does not fail to claim its cessation and that the whole educational community has failed. We find ourselves in front of motions and proposals also from the education committees. And, however, we have not just heard why the fire chestnuts are being pulled out of it, because this time, for the third time, we are putting his reprobation back on top of the table, a reprobation that does not end up being effective because the Socialist Party, precisely, goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and And, therefore, if we are clear that this reprobation exists, that the department is not doing the right thing, we have a series of demands that we share with the three motions, also yours, that is also critical with the management of this department... And, however, it's an aspect that we still can't explain to each other. I don't know, I think you'll have to explain to the educational community, you'll have to give explanations; for what reason, change what. They'll be there by now. Today we have representatives from the educational community who I assume also want some explanations. The counselor is said to be a non-grateful person every day, isn't he? , or some center makes public its agreements in the cloister joint where they decide that Lord González-Cambray is decreed person not grateful in that center. Yes, it has passed and continues to pass, despite the tricks of this week of the department at different directions indicating that they had to remove this point from the order of the day of their closings and that they did not have the power to decide on this fact. Despite this, I continue to feel said person not grateful to many centers and do not stop asking for his resignation. As for point number 2, we will vote in favour of most of the points of this motion. Point 2: "Recovering your own course – this is important: your own course –"the teaching and educational support resources of educational centres with more complexity. And here today we have representatives from these support professionals. I have repeated it on several occasions, in this faristol and also in the committees: it cannot be that the department attaches labels to the educational centres which increase the stigma against these centres, giving them the label of the centre of maximum complexity to those centres which have a higher index of migrated population or families at risk of social exclusion with the excuse of "this label serves to identify the educational centres and to look at them resources and, therefore, to maintain this stigma and this label, and, at the same time, to withdraw these resources. The excuse of "we were well-suffered for the State, these well-suffered ones have disappeared and, therefore, we cannot keep it... We cannot use this excuse and at the same time say and defend that we have the skills in education, because, if we have the skills in education, we also have to provide the resources necessary for our education and we cannot pull drivers out and always excuse ourselves in the others – "the responsible are the others. I would also like to be able to refer to another of the points, point number 12, in view of the end of my time: "Prevent an express formation to the educational centers about the new curricula and their evaluation during the first trimester of the proper course. We remember that these curricula have not yet been approved, yet they have not been published, yet they have not reached and the teachers of our educational centers and they will have to apply them and they will have to incorporate them as of September 5. It does not only serve training in directions, because the directors and directors of the centers – and I finish, president – are not the ones to adapt their contents and their materials. And so it's not worth having a four-month-old eraser, and yet we don't have a definite resume, when the order of the calendar is already above the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.151.0	The next word is Mr Jordi Jordan, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.152.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... that's the second reason we're dealing with education today, in addition to what we talked about a few weeks ago, which we'll talk to later, and which, therefore, evidence, isn't it? This malaise of the educated world, as we all know. A discomfort that we continue to say that the government should resolve immediately and not make it see that it does not exist, as is being done on a recurring basis. The advance, Mrs. Niubó, that we will give support to the total practice of the points that you have presented today and that are also on the line, right? , of many of our demands and, ultimately, of the educational community. And in any case, and in order not to repeat myself with what I said before to our young lady, I will try to focus on some elements that, precisely, I have not been able to explain before and that are also contributions that go to your young lady and that, therefore, for us are also important. The first, in relation to the more complex educational centers – important. You know we share it, you know we've voted for it in different committees and in different motions, which you can guarantee, right? , these resources of teachers and educational support in these schools, which are certainly of the most need among our system, if we really want to bet on equity. Second place, inclusive school. It must also, of course, be a priority. We spoke to our young man about a pact that we have negotiated in a work table. You speak here, above all, that this clear model is present in September, to the proper commissions, and that there is also a plan, right? , better for all students with special needs. Obviously, we agree with this plan of shock. It's time to act. We see this in all the appearances of the study committee that respect it, which is a scandal that has not been completed to what was approved in the decree of 2017. And, therefore, you also know perfectly well that we are on this line. Another element that we want to highlight from your youth and that we also share and that we defended: the need to increase lines or primary groups in those centers, right? , public that has more demand and, above all, ensure the schooling of Germans and Germans in the same educational center. Let's just think this is important, too. Fourth element: bressol schools. Also very prominent. They didn't talk, I need to plan better. There are the resources of the European foundations, in this case, but neither must we make a scene at the gatherings, as it happened a few months ago. And, above all, these new seats have to be planned to guarantee, right? , universality and progress towards equity, for equality between men and women, also in this aspect. And, finally, we would also like to highlight the importance – that you are a battle that carries and that we also share – of the better angled language as one of the elements that we need to improve among our educational system. Therefore, we also agree with this need for a better course, that what needs to be done is to provide more specialist teacher, that it must also facilitate these developments, that we must also be very clear – we have also voted for it other times – the initial training of teachers and teachers in this language, and that it should therefore increase everything that makes reference to the places of official language schools. Therefore, as I said, we will practically support most of the points, with some abstention for some morning. And, as I said to the beginning, this is a second reason which is debated today, which is added to ours, which will then be debated by the CUP, and which, once again, in front of the groups that we support the government, there is no more excuses, that is to say, they have to react. It is obvious that the educational community is demanding better, is demanding change, is complaining that it does not lose it. You see yourself here in Parliament, you see yourself in the street. And, therefore, it's time to act and stop saying that they will just do what they do, because discomfort is obvious. And, therefore, let us hope that they will actually react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.153.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Esther Niubó once again holds the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.154.0	Well, thank you, President. I'll start with MP Aragones. We already know that we are making a lot of proposals, alternatives, constructive; that the reports of the alternate government are coming to the President of the Generality; that, moreover, we have told them that if they bring here a change of credit we will give them support for this plan of education; if, above all, we have to say [[the speaker laughs]] from which to draw resources, let us govern and finish before. [[Some applause.]] But in any case, they know that the predisposition of my party, of our parliamentary group, since the past year..., I mean, more extended to talk about assumptions as well. Who doesn't want to, because they have to think that we're one... I mean, it's the same, they don't care... it's you. So, do they want to sweat and talk about supposition? Do it. They wanted to make it past the year, so they won't have a problem in the future. But in any case, I wanted to thank all the spokespersons from all the groups for their interventions, contributions, reviews from all the groups. With Citizens we have been able to do... well, we have accepted a thought that seems to enrich me, which is that it makes an important recognition of the social and educational function also of special education schools. With VOX, then, we couldn't accept anything. For what he does to the PP, we have not been able to reach this agreement either, but it seems to me that with the point at which the reference is earlier, the need for flexibility in exceptional cases, such as Mary Ward's school, has been recaptured. And, in general, for what it does to the recurring subject, the subject of covid resources, escort'm, there are other autonomous communities that, even with an agreement with the unions, have maintained these reinforcements, this additional staff, which is necessary for the schools and the institutes today. It's a structural deficit that you're watering, and therefore, you need the resources you need to be able to, so, plant this better that, as I said before, is watering. For what he does to PP and Ciutadans, they don't have to worry. That is to say, the law that we approved in educational matters that guarantees is the learning and the use of curriculum and education of all official languages, also of the castle. That is why it will not be necessary to apply this concrete percentage, because there is a better realization of this guarantee of learning in the castle. I also say that I celebrate that Juntes, with the reticences that he held, now, therefore, is so satisfied with the law; we celebrate it. But in any case, what we require is that the government do its dues and sit down with the unions and provide us with a better course than we leave behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.155.0	So the debate is over, so I'm telling you, the vote on this point is going to be somewhere this evening, when we're done substantiating item 24 of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of school year 2021-2022]] [[302-00176/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the balance of school year 2021-2022, which presented the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. And she has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.156.0	Thank you, President. Well, that's the last thing that's going to be about education this late. Unfortunately... well, I don't know if I'm saying badly, no; we haven't accepted most of the items, especially the governing parties, because they're not on the same line as our proposals; it's obvious. Point number 1 of our motion establishes or directly calls for the withdrawal of the decree of plants, which I have already argued before the violation of rights that entails this contract to say and this selection of staff who make the and the directors of the educational centers; certainly, without training in human resources, in personnel contract, and that they are duties that have been, worth the redundancy, attributed to these directions by order and authority of the department. Well, point 2: "Approve an extraordinary premise to ensure the return of school time. A non-negotiable line, either. Not negotiable because it was a red line of the vacancy committee. Yes, Mr. Counselor González-Cambray, the vacancy committee is sitting at the negotiating table. He sat down, but he sat down with empty proposals. At the first meetings the department presented no concrete proposals to address that meeting and was unwilling to accept any of these red lines. One of them is the approval of this extraordinary premise to guarantee the return of school time. And it is not acceptable that it is divided or intended to divide the educational community offering the reduction of this day by the return of this school hour for primary education teachers, attending staff or secondary education teachers. That's what we could say about "divide and you'll win. So no. The vacancy committee does not go through these departmental strategies and does not accept it. And neither do we. The next point, which has also been discussed before, is the withdrawal of the order of the calendar, as also recommended by the School Council of Catalonia. Point 4, another aspect of which we did not reach agreement with the governing parties: if it does not withdraw the order of calendars, to guarantee the contract of monitors and monitors that they will have to cover the afternoons of September from the department in order to guarantee a quality of work, that the prices are paid according to the price of the price, that it is not a lower contract to make money for other external companies and to ensure that this contract remains at least half a day, because we consider that less than this day is job insecurity, more than they already have in this sector. We have also proposed this transition in the application of curricula, because, as we have already argued, curricula have not reached the educational centres. As much as the advisor agreed to repeat that this information has arrived at the centres, the training has arrived at the addresses, but, I repeat, the addresses are not to adapt the contents of their materials nor are they to apply these new curricula. As for the point number 6– providing an offer of public FP places that guarantees access to all the students–, when I mentioned it in last week's inquiry, the counselor was surprised when I was referring to the student of adult schools. It seems that neither the counselor nor the department make it clear that there is a part of the major population of divided years that is also studying the compulsory secondary education degree, this graduate who is running in the adult schools. And, therefore, if in a pre-registration order the continuity places of the compulsory secondary education student are specified, it is also necessary to guarantee the continuity of the student who holds the same title in adult training centres. Why, as some of the Members have argued, if continuity is a tool to fight this premature abandonment, what happens to these seniors of age who are trying to reintegrate into the education system to improve their living conditions? Doesn't lsha guarantee a place in our educational system? And since I'm running out of time, I'll only refer to two points very briefly, President. Point 8: Ensure the right of the entire student to access schooling under conditions of freeness. This is an aspect that is collected into all the legislation, from the State of autonomy to the law of education, to the decrees of the procedure of admission of centers, and it is not complete. Gratuity must be guaranteed, and this implies no payment of fees to the head of the centres, neither public nor concerted. And, finally, our dot, as you may know, Mr. Counsellor Gonzalez-Cambray, failed the Education Counsellor, Josep Gonzalez-Cambray. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.157.0	To defend the papers presented, the first word is Mrs Esther Niubó, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, come on, she's the last one. [[The joker laughs.]] I'll start at the end: we won't fail Councilman Cambray. Do you know what's going on? The most important thing that's happened is that he failed everyone, the whole educational community, all of them together. And from my group we share a good part, not to mention all the complaints from the educational community. Obviously, we support these just claims that have been expressed by different points of view – directions, families, unions. But we believe that we are not contributing to the Councillor's rebuttal, and what we do need to do is to make proposals, constructive solutions to address this justified discomfort and to make a clear alternative. This is what we expect or think we expect from ourselves, from politics. And this is our line, to do this, that is to continue building an alternative of the hand of the sector, and in that we will continue to work. And, in addition, we find that who calls on us to fail is the one who took over this government's investiture, when there was an existing alternative – indeed, there is still this alternative – or who, therefore, fails, but may have approved of some assumptions that were insufficient and that do not contain all these claims that we are asking for. So, so to speak. We understand that they want to repudiate the councillor, which is actually in the dark, but what we want is to draw an alternative. But in any case, what do they propose in this case? They propose an extraordinary premise to ensure the return of both primary and secondary school teachers. There we are in favour. In fact, we were the first ones we offered in this chamber to the councilman to be able to make this change of credition. And, therefore, sadly, until today we have not rejected any..., king, no interest on the part of the government to plant it. Second place, they propose to remove the order of modification of the calendar. I have already said that, despite sharing it – and we have voted on it again – I believe that we prefer this impact study to re-establish it in front of our own course. In fact, the unions themselves give the fact that the bait will be the 5, and that's why there are the mobilizations. And, therefore, it seems to us that these lifts would not help to clarify the situation. For what it does to monitor contracting, the underlying problem is that we are totally opposed to this compacted September day for this social and educational impact that we think it can have. We don't want to whiten this operation in the afternoons of September, we totally oppose it. And, therefore, this point we do not want to vote for. It seems to us that it is a mistake, that what we want is to study this impact and rethink the measurement face-to-face at the next course, with rigor, and we will not do experiments again that do not suppose any better pedagogical for the student, on the contrary, that complicate the organization, the adaptation of the student and also the planning of the centers, to the band to generate an increment of inequalities. For what makes the transition to the hour of deploying the new educational curricula, miri, the department knew two years ago that there was this new educational law – which, by the way, Esquerra collected –, knew the contents, the new curricula, the focus. And, therefore, we do not agree with not applying these curricula when the government has had enough time to accompany, to form directions, cloisters and centres. And it didn't happen and we're sorry, but the Catalan student doesn't deserve to keep Minister Wert's résumés for the government's leave. On vocational training, we agree with what they propose. We celebrate that it guarantees the educational continuity of the alumni that comes from a quarter of the ESO, effectively, but without discriminating the student also young that goes from taking 'only high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high school high This we understand is a repte, that it has to do much more and therefore obviously agree with this point. For what you do at points 7 and 8, we appreciate the statements that you have accepted. It seems to us that the right thing is to talk about guaranteeing the freeness of public places while there is no funding just at the concertation, while obviously, therefore, we aspire to the free education service of Catalonia and the necessary guarantee of public offer enough in all stages, and we are still not far off. We also share the continuity of social educators, social integration techniques. I've said before that other communities have done so, and I still agree with the unions. And, finally, we are in favour of revising and updating the decree of beggars to incorporate also the criteria of distance, precisely for those aggregate municipalities, which do not follow the change of municipalities, but the criteria of distance respect to the school, which the PSC has defended and proposed in the last legislature and others, and has never been pleased. For what you do to inclusive school, you offer minimal things, which is to keep the non-retailing professional to the EAPs to special education schools, only would be lacking. But, in any case, we think that it would be urgently necessary to increase the provision to meet the increase in the number of students with specific educational support needs that have been detected. In any case, we will vote most in favour of the motion. I want the next course, so it starts better than this one we've left behind, but so far we're seeing a lot of black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.159.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.160.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. This motion, the third on the subject of education in this plenary session, addresses issues, more issues than those addressed by the Comú Puem Group, but does not address issues as relevant, as important as school harassment, cyberbullying, the debate on the continuous day and the causes and consequences of the closure of certain concerted educational institutions. We shall vote in favour of a few points. On which we disagree, we have tabled four amendments, such as the second, in which we point out that the provision of public and concerted places is in line with the demand of families. Or, for example, the deletion amendment in point 11, for its improper mention of Catalonia as 'our country, when the reality is that it is our region, of course. But its ideological lock, its sectarianism reaches such unsuspected limits, as cunning and grotesque as the one I will now refer to. You, who impose monolingualism in Catalan at school; you, who believe, who consider Catalan to be the only proper and normal language, also disregarding Spanish; you, the defenders of l'école in català, go and present a motion, in catalan, with lack of spelling! Well, you are able to change the spelling standard, amend the flat to the very Pompeu Fabra, rather than thank us for the correction amendments we have submitted to you, because they come, or temporal, or mores, from a modest Catalan teacher who is from VOX. Look, the performance of Catalan students in mathematics, science and reading comprehension in the latest PISA tests has dropped by 9.7_per_cent. But none of the three previous motions – and neither has this one, that is, the three that have been debated in this plenary – have addressed this issue, which is essential. Which one? This, in particular: the school is going to acquire content, to acquire valuable knowledge. Because knowledge is information processed by previous knowledge, ruminated in working memory and retained in long-term memory. Mr Fernández, of the Joint Group, rightly yesterday, reflected on the current disregard for the culture of effort. I would like to give some more ideas on this. In ancient Greece a term was used, the term 'apeirokalia', to refer to vulgarity, i.e. the lack of experience of dignity, and, in general, of good and beautiful things, those which can only be conquered after many years of effort and dedication, for example, art, science, virtue, will and attention. Unfortunately, in the current Catalan school we see this affectation of apeeirokalia. The school has always been a noble creation of humanity. The school was the place where generations and, above all, poor children had access to the discovery of the great, the place to transcend their daily experience. But the Department of Education requires that there is no valuable knowledge, but powerful search engines and, at best, fluid skills. Thus, knowledge has been devalued. The poor remain helpless, because the rich, of course, can complement the lack of knowledge with extra-schoolers that can be paid for. When left without arguments, the school, in order to defend its nobility, is concerned only with how to entertain the students, becoming a kind of amusement park, with various activities, with a lot of paraphernalia, that is, electronics, so that the students do not get bored. For this reason, only 8.7_per_cent of the fifteen-year-olds, according to the PISA report of 2018, can distinguish between a given and an opinion. Children need schools that do not refer them as defective goods to universities with serious problems of reading comprehension. They need honest teachers who don't cheat on them by hiding the objectivity of their school results. They need evidence-backed methods in dogmatic methods. They need, in short, someone with authority to make visible to them the best they can be and to stimulate their appetite to achieve it. I'm done. When Euclid presented King Ptolemy I in Alexandria with his treatise on mathematics – Elements, thus entitled – the year 300 before Christ, the king asked him: "Is there not an easier way to learn geometry? Euclid replied: "There are no real paths in geometry. That is, learning, studying involves effort for both the rich and the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.161.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, she has the word, then the deputy Mrs.Glòria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.162.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselors, MPs... In his young man, obviously, today the CUP, so he also shows his education model for the country, as it has to be. And I'm telling you that I always look at myself with affection for everything you've expressed, because if there's anything together for Catalonia that we have, it's this feeling of bloc and unity that we all want, that is our country's independence. But when I read them, I really think: "My mother, which two countries are more different than we want. To see, however, Congresswoman Ndiaye wants to thank, and very much, all the conversations, this attempt to lie down at the different points that have come forward. He hasn't accepted many of the papers, and so what we're going to do here is talk to him a little bit. You, for what you do at school, proposed..., in our thought it was proposed that it was gradual: one for primary school and then continue with secondary school, this adaptation, because it is an objective of all, shared, that needs to be recovered at this school hour. But with you we always find ourselves with "or everything or things." Follow him, it's supposed to be all over the place. Of course, I sometimes find that on my part, so I have little intention of finding a solution for everyone, because I think our proposal is simply moving forward and referring to something that should never have happened. About the new timetable, they also ask us for more time for this incorporation. And it's also from the socialist bench, so, more time to evaluate it. We believe that, beyond that, that we are sure that an assessment will have to be made... I saw what Congresswoman Niubó was talking about today..., and also Congresswoman Palacín was there; that we met with UNESCO's Director of Education, and he explained to us that all these measures, that they are tough and that they are measures that change the current landscape, which they always want is a good follow-up. And therefore, here we are sure that from the Department of Education it will do this follow-up that is needed to improve. And, therefore, before the changes, always accompanying. Another point that we have not been able to agree on is that they are asking for this day of September's advancement..., it is asked, please, that the day of these monitors that families are asking for to complement the school schedule is a minimum of half a day. And we may go back to whatever you say, because the truth is that there are many solutions to this: to extend the schedule of the country monitors, including to all students who have this title of monitors, you can add to these schools to help in all these days. And, therefore, we believe that there is also an opportunity for all these young people, who, well, as you have already said or anything, so neither have we been able to come to an agreement. For what it does to public and free schooling, gratuitousness already contemplates our law of education, and already know what Junts thinks for Catalonia. The Education Service of Catalonia has a double network and has to count on it, which is both the public and concerted network. On vocational training, in vocational training we were surprised that we did not accept the idea, because in the end, at the increase of FP places and coming from the different courses that you offer, we also asked for the criteria of sectoral and territorial needs, which I think also complemented a little something that we say, because we do not disagree with everything that you propose. But, mirin, the last data of youth is a 25,3_per_cent in Catalonia. We're not talking about Spain because it's still a lot worse. And I'll tell you another time. The last memory of the trading chambers, from 2021, tells us that a twenty-and-five percent of businesses see limited their ability to grow due to lack of qualified personnel. So, listen, the solution is vocational training and dual vocational training. You tell us that dual professional training for you is all the opposite, that you see paying less here is to do the same job. But we, from Junts to Catalonia, are not on this line; we are on the line of Holland, Switzerland, Germany, to learn working, to train from practical and with a few underworthy. This is the end of job insecurity. From Juntes to Catalunya we understand that it is necessary to promote professional training, because it is essential for the incorporation of many of our young people into the market. Where you see precariousness we see an opportunity. And, lastly, we were asked to guarantee the continuity of social educators – and the deputy Niubó said – as is done in other autonomous communities, probably – they will have to recognise it – far more well funded than Catalan. And they know perfectly well who the assumptions of the Catalonian Government are. They tell us: "Spain will cut the stake with these covid funds. So if the size fits you come and claim to the Government of Catalonia. I think this battle is everyone's. They can't get through the screen so fast. This battle is for all Catalans, and here I think we need to go folded. That is why, and finally, from Junts to Catalonia, we will continue to work for a country of our own, which is the only way to guarantee a pioneering and quality education, because a country that values itself is a country of progress, prioritizes its educational quality always above all else. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.163.0	And in this turn of defense of the papers presented has the word the deputy Mònica Palacín, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.164.0	Thank you, President. Counselors... Also, therefore, welcome, invited people today to the plenary. Well, this is the last of the education motions today. And, see what we've seen, let him tell you that we believe with a lot of magic and little realism, cards to the King that you believe or think you have a box of infinite resources. Three motions with very similar points, some specific ones, according to the parliamentary group, but many points are common and my companies, both in Jordi Albert and Irene Aragonès, have already been able to argue and defend certain positions. Now, it would be fantastic for all these groups to tell us... and not to rule, perhaps better than not. It would be fantastic if they told us, not just us, not just the government, the educational community, as they would pay, all that. It would be very interesting if we could also put this information on the table, because not even with the greatest assumption ever made by the education council, with more than 2,000_millions of respect to the previous assumptions, a presumption of 6,000_millions of euros, we haven't had enough for everything. And, despite that, so, we've been working, working the department, getting out of these pandemic courses, and starting, despite everything, the educational transformation that was promised by President Aragones. For the first time, the initial offer has increased in the public. There have been fewer concerted groups; there will be a reduction in student-to-child ratios 3 with twenty students per class; free for families to children 2; fight against segregation with the student admission decree for a balanced schooling, essential for truly fighting against segregation; thirty-four_per_cent more places than the year spent in vocational training– are about 413,000 more places, and with a clear objective, that is to fight against early school leaving, and the expansion of the staff of educational centres with more than 2,400 teachers and professionals of education. Many of these measures we believe already announce and justify the sentiment of the vote in many of your points of this motion. And there has also been an effective and realistic response to feelings against the Catalan school. We have also continued to work in this line, with consent, rigour and long look, because we have already said that doing nothing was not an option. And, therefore, still with everyone against the application of the twenty-and-five-per-cent of the castle to classrooms, and also with everyone to push the catalade from the norms and from the active militancy for the use of the catalade to the school. These are examples of the transformations that we have begun, with a certain limited assumption, coming out of a pandemic, but with realistic, planned and time-bound objectives. And, once again, an eternal gratitude to the educational community, to the families, to the teachers, for having protected our students, for having kept the schools open and secure, and with a very complicated quarter, and to which the department has faced with the coverage of the many casualties caused by the cove, especially at the end of the last quarter, with an increase of teachers and staff educated to cope with the effects of the pandemic. And the effects of the pandemic are the ones that the Spanish government has already missed, eliminating the coveted funds for the coming course. But as they govern, as in Parliament, the gaze is wide with the clear objective of doing everything that goes on and getting old for the educational quality of our infants, and finding solutions to the continuity of social educators and TIS. I thank you, Congresswoman Ndiaye, for the acceptance of one item and the transaction of another point, of the twelve that you have planted. We would have liked to vote more in favour, but, as I have said before, we do not share your vision for the education system. You would want some schools that function as a sole, where the department handles and the schools obeissin, without center autonomy, without diversity of educational projects and linguistic projects, a block. A model that calls for struggle against segregation, but deny balanced redistribution to avoid this segregation. The claims increase of ration or opening of nine lines according to the demand of families, not from a global point of view and thinking long term. This is a long way from equity and equality. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm sorry, President, I'm going to expand, like most Members. As I said, it's a long way from equality and equity. And I'll tell you something that tastes really hard. His speech respects this theme, like that of the PSC today, and that of the group of the commons, is very similar to that of his veins from the other gang of the hemisphere. [[Widow's remorse.]] Finally, when decisions are made, we can do two things: try to please everyone and end up blocking, political inaction, or think about the common good and, despite the changes, which had conflicting opinions, listen to everyone, prioritize according to resources and act. CUP companies, let's hope they can say this theme that they know very well, which is: "They used to slow down so they could travel far. And I would say more: and for the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.165.0	I remind you that the fact that I allow all Members to finish the reasoning makes my generosity a reasonable limit. When you get past the minute, it's obvious that this is no longer reasonable. Therefore, I recommend to everyone that they snore at the time they've been assigned. Then, to fix his position, has the word Jordi Jordan MP, of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.166.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, counselors... well, we find ourselves with the third, and last, education, which... again, let's say that there's obviously a discomfort, a discomfort to the educational community, that, according to the Republican Left MP, it seems to be... or it must also be demagogic, right? Because in the end, it's no longer something that doesn't want reality. Therefore, it is obvious that if we are talking here, if there are members of the educational community here, if all the parliamentary groups are proposing and saying that there is a change of course in education, if there have been announcements of new educational waves for the course teacher, something must pass. But I have already told my intervention that surely the blame would be, if not from the Spanish State, from Europe, from the educational community or from the opposition, as it seems from the Republican Left they are today. In any case, and focusing on the CUP motion, we won't repeat all the things we share. We will try to highlight those which we have not been able to say before and which therefore also seem to us to be proposals, right? , that they are on the line of building this education more equitable for our country. The first point is that if the calendar is not changed, which is obviously not changed, you also ask that from the department you lead this contract of monitors and monitors for the afternoons, and that it is a half-day, like at least, to be able to do your job with guarantees and quality. And, therefore, we will obviously support it from our group as well. With regard to vocational training, more than anything that has been said before, in this case we would like to put emphasis on the need to ensure access to all the students, not just those who go to secondary school and, therefore, also all those who are studying these form cycles, this course of access to middle-grade form cycles, adult schools and the rest of people, in short, right? , who are likely to enter vocational training. We also think that it must be guaranteed and not repeated – demagogic, I suppose – that there has also been a fight in relation to vocational training. Another element that we have also commented on before and that we are now repeating is continuity, isn't it? , of these seventy social and technical social integration educators. And here, too, obviously, we think that we can give them an answer before the summer ends to know whether they can really continue or not, because I think it's a totally obvious thing. And then another element that we also think is different from the other motions that have been made and that the UPC has proposed to us is the fact that we guarantee fairness with regard to the transport and to the school manager of all those students who live in municipalities without educational centres, that they should move between, right? , of other municipalities which are not recognized as such. And, therefore, we also understand that it is positive, especially in the occupied Catalonia and rural Catalonia. About reprobation, we'll give you support. You know we did it in your day. He knows we asked for the councillor's resignation a few days ago, but we've already said that before and in all interventions: we don't think it's the councillor's or the councillor's thing. There should be an answer from the whole government, from the Republican Left and from Junts in its conjunction, which, instead of saying that the educational community is asking questions and that they are demagogs, what they should do is a reaction that, for what it seems, not above. And, therefore, we will continue to work because they do. In any case, we will abstain in a few points, as we have already commented, for the wording or for the terms that you comment, but mostly from Comú We can support your motion. I, for that matter, wait, don't you? That there really is a reaction beyond today's discourses and words, because what the educational community and the education system need at these times is a change of speech, a change of course and, above all, that all these better things that have been claimed and that we think are absolutely necessary are taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.167.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, has the word, after all, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.168.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... In this third consecutive motion on education, we had to talk concretely about the balance of the 21-22 school year, but I have to say that the balance did not just look at it. As I have already said in the debate on the motion for a resolution, neither in this case, with this motion for a resolution, do we agree with the political and ideological view of the questions raised. Therefore, it is no surprise that there is even a difference in funds. And yet, given that we never get bogged down in sectarianism, I have to admit that this young man was better taken, in general, than not the young man of Podemos, which ultimately makes us give a support more apart, and even this support can be considered as a majority, at the same time as the young man himself. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we believe that the autonomy of the centers we have to believe and that they must have their role in the definition, provision and management of their plants. Therefore, I have already advanced them that we will not support their demand for the government to withdraw the plant decree. The intention to withdraw the order of modification of the school calendar is also considered to be a priority. So now it's from the Department of Education already done. Mr. Ernest Maragall already did it when he was a general government advisor to the PSC. That advanced calendar lasted only two years, but I don't think you're generating problems that are as difficult as to consider this advance inconvenient. In any case, we do not consider it relevant and we will abstain from it. Now, we believe that, if the Education Department retains the order to modify the school calendar, the Administration of the Generality must assume the contracts necessary for the proper management of the afternoons of September at the children's and primary education centres and in order to ensure that the contracts that are signed are not less than the middle of the day. Therefore, at this point we will vote clearly in favour. The group proposing to open a three-year transition period at the educational centres to implement the new curricula. This may be the consequence of the fact that the much celebrated – for some, not for us – law is applying very late to Catalonia. The generality has not done dues, but the centers have not been too diligent either. Therefore, we will not support this proposal. We do agree that the public offer of vocational training should be improved so as to guarantee access to the pupils' secondary education, secondary education, secondary education, secondary education, secondary education, adult school pupils and any person who wishes to access the public network of vocational training, whenever he holds the title of access. Therefore, at this point we will vote in favour. To the proposal to increase the offer of public places in all stages of compulsory schooling, from the start, we are not against, but the rectification of the concrete point generates doubts. So we won't be picking him up either. From our parliamentary group, we have defended that the offer of concerted schools in compulsory schooling stages are also public places. Once the doubt is generated, I've told you, we'll abstain. We also defended the right of all students in school at a place in basic education at public and concerted centres, under conditions of free compliance with the Statute, the LOE and the rest of the standards of application. Perhaps this obliges the Government of the Generality to ensure that concerts with the concerted centres are sufficiently equipped to ensure that this freeness for the students is truly effective. We believe that the continuity of social educators and social integration techniques that form part of the plants of high- and most complex educational centres is necessary. We also agree with the need to ensure the free transport and the school-teacher of the student who must travel for his or her schooling in his or her municipality. There are habitat nuclei that are far from the school in the same municipal term. It is not to be condemned to an expense that is not corresponding for a rigid interpretation of the regulations. This also forms part of the support that small people need to not get emptied. With regard to its reference to inclusive school, in our view, the truly inclusive school also passes by to maintain specific special education centres, which have an exceptional quality and which we consider essential to put the true equality of opportunities at the abst of many young and young children. They propose, finally, also, in their gift point, the reprobation of the education counselor, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray. The goats on the invitation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.169.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.170.0	Yes; President, I will do it from the seat, to see if we can compensate for that flexibility in the minutes, but it is true that we have been debating education for quite some time. I don't want to repeat myself. There were many points that coincided in the motion. In one of my speeches I have already advanced that precisely the CUP was the one we perhaps liked most in many respects. We find it quite brave in some of the points, and that is why we are going to give majority support to almost all of it, because it basically collects the demands of the educational community, which I think is what the thing was about today, to listen to them; since the counselor does not, to listen to us and try, at the very least, to force a change of opinion in the department and policies in the department. We are going to vote against point 11, which talks about inclusive education, but it is about terminology. Other comrades have said that before me. You speak of our country, and we do not enter into this type of whitening of the expressions of nationalism, but not because we do not support inclusive school. And, in fact, we already do it in other motions. Congresswoman Palacín said where they're going to get the money, which is a matter of money. I wonder how much the embarrassing advertising campaign cost us to try to sell us the advance of the school year. Perhaps you could save there or, if you have no ideas, I really volunteer to give you a list of all the things where you could cut: less propaganda, less promotion of nationalism, for example, and more education. That's what the budget would have to do, not for other things. But you, as always, cheat on the lonely and pretend to cheat on the others too, as, for example, happened yesterday with the announcement of the increase of the staff, that you do the account of the old one. But it is very simple: the unrenewed are more than the re-contracted ones. So don't announce it so proudly, because we honestly know how to add and subtract, Mr. Counsellor. And, finally, adds another point, this motion, which is novelty with respect to the others, which is point 12, that of reprobating the education counselor, Gonzàlez-Cambray. The Socialist Group's Member said that, well, perhaps this does not bring much, that they have already tried to reprimand it on other occasions. In fact, from my group we ask you to leave directly, Mr Cambray. The unions have also done so in a majority way, but I do say one thing to the PSC: this point, precisely, serves to see how you continue to follow the government of Republican Left and Junts. You, who came to save us from nationalism, support them absolutely in everything. And you, I'm sorry to say it, but you have the same alternative as I do in Norse Blonde. [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.171.0	So, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.172.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, as for the papers, first of all, the reference made by the Socialist Party to point 11, to ensure as a minimum the professionals of this deployment – that it has not been deployed – from inclusive school, is a question of minimums. But it is precisely necessary because we have found ourselves, in the last weeks and in the last months, SIEIs that have closed, special education centers – like Mollet's – that are closing. So let's try, at least, to ensure continuity. YES, he announced his lockdown a few days before the former councillor visited the centre, which I appreciate, because the allusion of complaints on that visit caused that SIEI was not closed at last. As for the VOX Parliamentary Group – we have repeated this in this chamber several times – I think that..., we believe that this parliamentary group is here because of a democratic anomaly. Therefore, we do not accept any ideas or lessons from this parliamentary group. We did not include aspects such as school accommodation because we approved the creation of a committee, a working group, precisely to cover this aspect. I, on the subject of orthographic faults, typographic faults of a letter, a lack of a tea. But in the band of that, Congresswoman Palacín was talking about how to guarantee all that we propose. So, well, social educators are seventy-five, seventy-five people. Therefore, it would only be possible to guarantee the continuity of these professionals by lowering the amount of money we are proposing for the Members' and Members' CUP. But, if not, we have a lot of proposals: to stop watching money at the concert, to stop investing in macroprojects like the American Cup, the Olympic Games, the videos of the department or this subway line that is a funnel, like line 9, of the territory. Therefore, if you wish, we can continue to add proposals. I'm done, President. As for the deputy of Junts, we cannot buy the FP mark, because we do not share this dual FP idea that what it does is to guarantee youth access with training or learning contracts, doing the same job as a professional, but taking the bribe. And, therefore, the companies take advantage of this situation, and we do not buy this brand or this speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.173.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point will have the twenty-and-four point of the order of the day finished. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into infrastructure]] [[302-00172/13]] Let's move on to point 23, the motion following the Government's inquiry into infrastructure, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And he has the word, to make his presentation, Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.174.0	President, deputies, deputies... At the end of the next year, 2023, the B-40 tram between Abrera and Terrassa will be finished. We present a young man who has two points, and it's two very concrete points. That both governments, the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, agree the informative studies for the railway connection between the Vallesos from the R8 and the R4 and also with Railways of the Generality of Catalonia. We want to go by train from Granollers and Mollet to Sabadell and Terrassa without having to take it down directly. We want to go directly to improve the mobility of people in public transport. This is one of the young lady's points. And we also propose that they agree with the Government of Spain – that both governments agree with me, as I asked the Vice President – the mechanisms that allow the drafting of the North Round project of the urban systems of Terrassa and Sabadell, which, moreover, is proposed in the specific mobility plan of the Vallès. And that this convenient retreat also means that the execution of the works is done by the Government of the Government of Catalonia and that it guarantees precisely the financing of this work by the Government of Spain. Exactly what we're proposing is that I draw up the draft of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and connect it to what I gave them to the beginning of my intervention, with the B-40 tram to Abrera to connect with airport infrastructure. This road infrastructure – yes, road infrastructure – is key, from our point of view, also for the economic and social agents of the territory, for the economy, for the consolidation, the creation of work places in the West Valley and, by extension, the conjunction of Catalonia. One thing: the twenty-i-five percent of Catalonia's industrial sector is concentrated in the western Vallès region and the eastern Vallès region. An infrastructure, a road for the better of the mobility of people, but, above all, of the goods that are produced in the West Valley, in the industrial conglomerate that Captain Sabadell i Terrassa. A 2+2 road; yes, yes, a road I allowed, right? , reach the airport infrastructure located at the port of Barcelona and the airport of Barcelona - El Prat. We believe that the design and execution of the Terrassa-Castellar-Sabadell tram, that is, of the conjunction of the North Round, is good news for the socioeconomic fabric. I also want to point out that this road is a solution that is defined in the Vallesos mobility plan, which was approved by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. That it's good news for the West Valley and, by extension, we don't just say it from Catalonia; they say it too – and they say it with strength – the socioeconomic agents – the unions, the tradesmen and the entrepreneurs. We are in favour of investing in better rail mobility, but also in better road mobility infrastructure. Escoltin, MPs and MPs, goods produced or required to produce the Vallesos and, in this case, the West Valley, must arrive by road at the logistics and intermodal centres. And to decongest the present lives with complementary solutions, among them, railways and roads, but also with the drafting and construction of this new railway and road network between the two Vallesos. And one last point. In a period that will not go beyond fifteen years, electric vehicles, also goods transport vehicles, will be mostly powered by electricity or hydrogen, and we will continue to need to invest in the better road network of the Vallesos, in this case, the West Valley, to connect with the B-40 tram up to Abrera and 2023 will be completed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.175.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.176.0	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate last week on infrastructure, we were able to witness the many criticisms made by the Socialist spokesman and the Vice-President of the Generalitat, who is absent today. As a result of the large amount of information presented, and although they both used the data and periods they were interested in, we believe that it was clear to us that the Government of the Government of the Separation of the Generalitat is very poorly managing public resources. It was also evident how badly the socialist government of Pedro Sánchez manages. That both governments are mismanaged, we already knew. Who makes it worse than the two of us? Well, I wouldn't know, actually. I like football; I'd put an equidae in the quiniela, huh? But those who always lose are the ordinary Catalans, fed up with a ruling class that doesn't watch over their interests. But there is one difference: while the separatist government simply does it very badly, because to its incapacity it adds wrong priorities, for example, it turns into the continuation of the process, bordering the affairs of ordinary management to the government of Pedro Sánchez, while Spanish separatism attributes its mismanagement not to incompetence, but to an intentional attitude. Listening to the separatists it seems that all the Spaniards, while we are having breakfast every day, are calling out plans, evil ideas, to annoy and harm Catalonia and Catalans, as if it were something different or enemies, isn't it? And the worst part is that there are people who, based on listening to the machacona and repeatedly believe it; I think we have a few here. On the content of the motion, both proposals seem to us to be positive, because they will improve the mobility of people and goods for citizens and businesses in Vallés. The B-40 or Cuarto Cinturón road is short, since it only proposes the completion of a section of the road of the fourth section, of this B-40, of the sections in which this road was divided. In addition, he changed his name; now he calls it « the North round of the road system between Sabadell, Castellar del Vallés and Terrassa ; that was the day before yesterday, yesterday they changed his name again, and now, instead of « the road system, he calls it « the urban systems and the name has disappeared« Castellar del Vallès. Well, you'll know. We assume that they do so to try to mislead the extreme-left ecological groups, which oppose any work. I think they haven't made it; I think they've already noticed the attempt, the deception, and already, in fact, I seem to have seen some picture in which someone paid them a visit. Well, we, the VOX Parliamentary Group, have already put forward a proposal along the same lines in this Parliament's Committee on Digital Policy and Territory. It was debated on 16 February, and our proposal only had the favourable vote of our group and the vote against all the others present at that meeting. Well, we welcome the Socialist Group's change of heart; welcome. What does the Government of the Generalitat think? For, by the interpellation and the amendments, it seems that part of the government – it seems – the Junts side has also changed its mind – we welcome it. And on Republican Left we have doubts; I don't know. We'll see what they say – we'll see. We have tabled amendments to the text proposed by the Socialist Group, because we believe that it is the State that must directly carry out the relevant project, work and studies, and not simply transfer to the Generalitat de Catalunya the money necessary for it to do so. The experience of these forty years reaffirms that the less separatism is managed, the better. Hence, we point to separatism as the main enemy of the prosperity and well-being of Catalans. For their part, socialists have always wanted to hide the presence of the State in Catalonia and feel more comfortable as mere crutches or lackeys of separatism. His collaborationism has aggravated the situation and shows day and day also that they are neither alternative nor exercise as opposition in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.177.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word the deputy Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.178.0	Thank you very much, President. The PSC presents us today with a motion on infrastructure in Vallès, a motion that we have agreed and traded with Esquerra and PSC. I would also like to thank Mr Jordi Terrades's so British taranna, and after four days, teaching me maps, speaking... I mean, many thanks, because I'm after a lot, and that's what it's all about. Well, if we're here talking about these issues, it's because the Valley accumulates decades of investor failures in the Spanish State. Looks like something's moving now, but, well, we're in a pre-election year, the year that sees there are municipal elections. And we say, with Congressman Juli Fernández, to make a hemerotheque... in the last thirty years, statements by Members, socialist ministers, the year before the municipal elections; we would find things here. But, well, let's go to the party – let's go to the party. Sabadell today is one of the most contaminated municipalities in Catalonia. There are times when it's the most polluted. From 40 to 45,000 daily cars pass through his Gran Via. More than half use this Great Way as a long-distance highway. We must act urgently. Chambers of commerce – we have been sold in an act at the Chamber of Commerce of Sabadell – have estimated every year the loss of hours between 15 and 20 million annual hours, which suppose the scales, the col·lapses, the retentions due to lack of investor actions. If we multiply the price of the hour, we have a dimension of the disaster, along with the demoralization that causes us to see decades as they lost these hours. Therefore, it is necessary to act quickly and effectively. I, finally, Castellar del Vallès, therefore, remains disconnected. I defined Castellar del Vallès as the Far West of Vallès. Actually, one day I got carried away, because to get there you have to get into Sabadell, you have to do it all once, cross barrels and take a road. There is no link to Castellar del Vallès with a high capacity track nor is there a rail connection. All citizens and all businesses and Castellar trucks are obliged to cross Sabadell if they want to go to the airport, if they want to go to the port. Therefore, the situation is urgent. As Congressman Terrades said, effectively, at the generation of 2021, Councillor Damia Calvet presented the specific mobility plan of the Vallès, published to the DOGC on February 19. That plan, approved in 2021, was the result of a long negotiation process: Generality, together with local councils, chambers of commerce, employers, trade unions, professional clubs and also citizens, which made sixty-six accessions from eight hundred proposals. So this consensus is already there, and we need to put it in value and we need to take advantage of it. From Juntas to Catalunya we agree with the railway issue, which we have agreed with PSC and Esquerra; therefore, here we are happy to agree. And we also agree that the B-40 was over in Terrassa and that there was agreement not to continue it, as expected in the future. But, well, we think that a road solution, which can be the North Round, that gives a definitive solution that is missing between Sabadell, Terrassa and Castellar del Vallès. For example, in the Alt Empordà, a solution that worked: the double way with many roundabouts that there is between Figueres and Roses. Yes, yes, without this solution, the alt empordad col·lapse would be much worse. But, well, it's a possible solution. There are many roundabouts that give a lot of capillary and de facto limit speed. Well, it's a possible solution. Counselor Josep Rull talks about it. So, well, let's study it. Finally, together with Esquerra, we presented a statement, which was not accepted, asking the Spanish Government to transfer resources to the Generalitat. As we saw earlier this week in the Diaries that were transferred to Defense, weapons were paid, planes were bought, I'd ask you how many food trucks all these planes are worth; 2,000_millions ago, these 1,000_millions this week... Well, more than enough because they're comparisons that have been made in the past, right? Well, then, listen, to you socialists, who like Keynes so much, John Maynard Keynes, the great British economist of the past century, he said: "A business is made only when it is cashed, that you may not know better than English to say that a business is only closed when it has been charged. Therefore, welcome would be, this transfer, because this would allow us to speed up the execution of the work. That is to say, one thing is that the minister makes a promise, just the week she got out..., we knew the data of the Ministry of Economy..., Catalonia, thirty-five_percent of the executed; Madrid, almost two-hundred_per_cent of the assumed. But, well, in any case, we can't talk about these questions for long. All in all, from Junts to Catalunya, we think that an urgent and quick solution is needed to solve the mobility of the West Valley. Cal connect Castellar del Vallès, cal decontaminate and decongest the Gran Via de Sabadell, cal concreteize the North round with an effective and respectful solution with the new sensitivity of the majority and the environment. From Juntes per Catalunya we want to be, we want to be, we are the "yes, well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.179.0	And it is now the return of Congressman Juli Fernàndez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.180.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs... MP Terrades, MP Tremosa, I think it's true that we've had some time to switch and know who our positions are, at some points known to be different, although I think we can go to bed, as is the case with the second proposed by his young lady, around the railway connection of the R4, the R8 and Railways of the Generality of Catalonia. You know perfectly well, I think, the position of the Republican Left of Catalonia around the Fourth Belt or B-40 during the last thirty years; it is not a new issue. From the Republican group, what we believe is that we solve mobility by focusing on a focus in Vallès – with a focus in Vallès – and not on trossets, not on a state infrastructure that is a highway, because the State, the skills it has to build highways. We knew, on June 10th, an announcement more like the ones we could feel in 2010, 2014 or 2018, all years pre-electoral, in a new format. And you told him that the minister qualified as historical agreement; I suppose historical agreement because announcing a non-existent agreement must be historical, but she explained that she had reached the agreement to expand the B-40, to transfer the execution of the B-40 on her tram between Terrassa and Sabadell, and to finance it through the third additional provision. I suppose here you have to understand that we have a double disagreement. One, the announcement of the transfer of the execution of a highway that we believe is not the solution to the mobility of the Valley, among other things because it is limited to six kilometers between Sabadell and Terrassa. Listening to Mr. Terrades, it seemed we had a highway all over Vallès. And, at the same time, that the financing through the third additional provision is to use the money, the resources that are from the Generality, to decide what it wants to execute the State. So we have a double disagreement. What has allowed us is to be able to explain who our priorities are in the model of mobility in Vallès. Railway priorities, presented in a proposal for a resolution to the Commission of Territories, are collected in a very detailed way which are the best railways – orbital train, interconnections – but, in addition, public transport. We believe that this is the first priority in a metropolitan region where we have the thirteen_per_cent of public transport and the eighty-seven_per_cent of private transport. But what we have also seen is that, since that day, the term « B-40_has disappeared from its lexicon and have incorporated other names, such as the North Round. Therefore, in these items what we have tried to do is to see if really what you intend to do, Mr Socialists Group, or the ministry intends to do is something different from the B-40. And, therefore, what we have done has continued to incorporate this total visit of the Vallès, the transfer of resources from the total of the B-40 to the Generalitat so as to provide solutions of mobility, the finalization of the B-40, the C-16 and remove the reserve of the B-40; work the proposals between Sabadell and Terrassa improving the existing lives and proposing the connection of the C-58 with Castellar – lives owned by the Generalitat. And, unfortunately, we have proven that what you are claiming, as you were explaining here now, is that there is a high-capacity road between the whole of the East and West Valley, and that you are doing it to the fish and that the Government of Catalonia has executed it. Well, we believe that after thirty years, the Fourth Belt is in critical state, that it's about to die and that we don't want to take it out of the ICU. On the contrary, what we want is to certify our death and with the resources to be allocated to the B-40 to build real and adequate solutions. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I conclude, President – to the needs of our people and to the climate emergency and energy crisis situation. Therefore, build solutions, with more trains, acting on the existing road network, improving it and making connections to facilitate life, in this case, to the people of Castellar del Vallès, to the people of Sabadell. But, unfortunately, these connections that they make are to move the emissions to a bar in an annex to the city of Sabadell, do not make them disappear. Many thanks for your contributions, Mr. Tremosa, Mr. Terrades. And we're still working on building these solutions for our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.181.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Ms Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.182.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Mr. Terrades, I suppose you already know that we are voting against it, right? We have often shown our opposition to the Fourth Belt, B-40, round North, the name you want to pose. Don't worry, Mr. VOX, that we are very alert, that even if the name changes, as the name doesn't do the thing, we identify it. Why are we against it? So it's very simple. We live in a climate-emergency situation, decreed including for this Parliament, which no one questions and which obliges to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The IPCC's latest report tells us that we need to act urgently and create a North Round does not serve to reduce emissions, but increases them. Second argument. The level of contamination causes quantifiable deaths, and Mr. Tremosa, in fact, goes to the Parliamenthouse and tells us that Sabadell is one of the most contaminated municipalities in Catalonia. So we can't make a North round, Mr. Tremosa. Look what's going on in Vitória, look what's going on in Oñati. What solutions are they giving? Please, it is not fixed in the same solutions as usual, starting from the idea that Sabadell is one of the most polluted cities. Third, the price of gas oil is coming to the right, not to increase, and you from the Madrid government, in accounts of taking effective solutions, right? For the price reduction, which could go through the intervention of oil companies, which are speculating with the price increase, what they do are cosmetic measures, such as making small bonuses, and that's what it does to charge diesel and the ability to take cars. So, who's going to go around this north round? High classes? Because, of course, the people of this country just now won't even be able to put gas in the car. Peak oil. There's a time he won't be able to grow up because this first thing will be over. There's all the scientists we're getting right now. What's it gonna be like to have a new road? And in the last term, and related to this North round, the theme is that you, in our hearing and with respect, start from an optic that is wrong, that is: you pose this problem in long-distance terms, when this is an urban problem, and therefore what it is to give urban solutions. And this happens to bet for the transport collection. We ask ourselves, frankly, why do you continue to insist on this project that goes back thirty years. And there's a few things coming to mind. For example, in sociological terms, therefore, there is still no way to pass the page of this developing country that has been pervaded for many years by the way governments do. I don't know if they want to promote the interests of the big oil companies, to promote the interests of the automotive industry, to promote these UTEs that we have learned today are making the distribution of public contests... I don't know if all the answers to the questions are positive. What we believe... oh, by the way, the theme that the North Round will create workspaces. We, therefore, cannot share this vision that the North Round... A North Round will not create places of work. What creates jobs is a reindustrialisation, thinking of a new industrial fabric, but not a road. A road, if any, which will lead us to more logistics warehouses, which do not generate quality work places. Look, what Vallès needs is to breathe air and collect transport options that ensure mobility for everyone. And it also needs another thing: to amplify its agricultural potential as much as possible. And this day we made an inquiry about the need for food sovereignty, and we reproduce here everything we said at that time. And we do want to point out to the Lord of Junts, that with the slogan they talk about the financing of the work by the central government and the execution of the Generality. I see it's not said in this address about the title of the street. Is this where it's going to be, this way? Who will be the titular? Shall we go back to the pit, Mr. Tremosa? You'll let the sobriety lie? We don't claim street titles anymore? So, we have the reference to the special mobility plan of Vallès, which leaves much to be desired, because the plan enters into an internal contradiction when it says that it wants to reduce the gases of winter effect and sets as its objective to make this round. And lastly, point 2, which is placed here with cellophane, isn't it? To the effects of, first, we pose the North round and, if a case, let's say something about the trains, see if that's the topic of the North round tail better. So, look, we, in relation to this point, we will abstain, more than we will, because if these movie heights are called for is to agree with Spain, to study information for the connection of the railway lines R4 and R8, which means that we are very backward. The only thing that fits into these movie heights is to require ownership of these two lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.183.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.184.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Well, the PSC presents us with a young man who, as we warned last week, is going to put on a manifest, even if he wants to make up with the second point, talking about railway infrastructure, so it's the defense of a model that's an outdated model, that's an antique model, that's a past model: the model of road infrastructure. And a model that, in the end, puts us back together is how the PSC turned into the defense party, isn't it? , the conservative party defending the interests of the elites in Catalonia. And he does it – and this also shows us this young man – with an agreement with Juntes for Catalonia. Therefore, this is the reality that we see as an alternative to government in Catalonia, which is this alternative « sociovergent anchored in a past model. Deia: as much as the second point of the young man wants to make up with railway infrastructure, the central point of this young man is the Fourth Belt, an infrastructure that, as you know, we don't think is necessary. Mr. Terrades told us that the Abrera-Terrassa tram will be finished in 2023. You could also tell us when it started and, in any case, we'll see when it's over, because our prognosis is that we'll probably end up before the Holy Family that this section of these 11 kilometers of the B-40. Deia: it's an infrastructure that's not necessary. An infrastructure, told us by the Director General of Carretereres of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, was necessary to transport tomaquets from Almeria to France. And I already told them in one intervention a few days ago: we believe that the tomquets and the rest of the goods are to be transported through the Mediterranean Corridor, that is, the future is to transport the goods by train. An infrastructure that it does is to draw a grid over the agricultural space of Vallès and, therefore, mismatch the ecological system of this area. Also an agrarian space that is key from the point of view of food sovereignty, but also an agrarian space that gives important social use to all citizens and citizens of the Valley, that use this open space that, unfortunately, we still have, but highly fragmented and that we would help to fragment even more with this North round. A Vallès where 1,300,000 people live, that what they need are solutions of mobility. And this isn't the mobility solution. The North round between Sabadell and Terrassa does not solve the mobility of the 1,300,000 people living in the Eastern and Western Valleys. In change, the stake for rail transport or the rethinking of collective transport, therefore, are real solutions. And I'm referring here, because they've made a lot of reference to the specific mobility plan of the Vallès, which is actually approved and has some objectives. And I want to read them some of these two objects that have the plan. Number 5: "Promoting modal transfer in journeys and goods to more sustainable modes. Do they really believe that doing the B-40 is encouraging modal transfer to more sustainable modes? Or Goal 7: "Reducing the impact on atmospheric pollution and the climate change of mobility. Is it true that to reduce the impact on the climate change and to reduce the atmospheric pollution that we need to do are the most roadways? And, certainly, Mr Terrades, Sabadell must be the most polluted city, but I also invite you to come to Vic and see the tropospheric ozone levels that we have in Vic's city, derived from the high mobility with road transport, so to speak, to the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Objective 9 of the specific mobility plan of Vallès: "Modify consumption and reduce the energy intensity of transport. All these objectives are set by placing a bet for the transport of the collection and for the transport of the railways. I already know that the specific plan also contemplates the North round, but it is that we prioritize, we cannot do everything and, therefore, we prioritize: if the objectives are these, we prioritize those objectives, those investments that really allow us to move forward, therefore, towards a reduction in emissions and a transfer of passengers to more sustainable modes of transport. Then there is the question, which is real, which is the urban Sabadell - Castellar del Vallès system, which requires a solution of mobility, but it is different things. We do not want to solve the mobility of the Sabadell-Castellar urban system through an infrastructure like the B-40. Let us resolve the situation of Castellar del Vallès. Certainly, we also celebrate, therefore, that at least Joints for Catalonia have said that the B-40 will end in Terrassa – let's hope this is so – and that, therefore, as a minimum, we give once and for all to bury this Quarturo, far beyond Terrassa. Because the real threat to the connection between Terrassa and Granollers is very high. In any case, for all these reasons, because above all we believe that it is an infrastructure of the past and not of the future and that it is a change in the modes of mobility in Vallès and the country's immediate vicinity, our parliamentary group will vote against point 1 and in favour of point 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.185.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.186.0	President, Members, Members... Mr Terrades, the truth is that we thank him for carrying this motion – that in some other case it has already been debated at different places in Vallès – because it is important that we stand, even though it is true that he does not have much to see with the inquiry exactly, but because it is important that we stand in this Parliament on a subject that we have been living in Sabadell for decades. It is obvious – it is obvious – that it has never been possible to give an answer to which the citizenry really..., because Mr. Fernández spoke before I think of the people, of our people, right? That's what our people are thinking. He must know what his people think; I'll tell him now what our people think. In fact, two days ago at the Sabadell Assembly Hall, our people approved this motion. Therefore, I believe that our people, who are represented at the Ple de Sabadell, the Ple de Terrassa, the Ple of the regional council, who are represented by the different unions, by different employers, opinion and desire that this work is done. This is our people, who fly – from Sabadell and from Terrassa and from Castellar – who somehow ended up some day, say, this evil that we are living. So, well, in the end, the history of Vallès has also become the history of its infrastructure, its great infrastructure; one of its great infrastructure is precisely this Quarturó, B-40, round Vallès, round Nord – we have told you every way to try to stop waiting or to get to an end, say, adequate and correct. And we carry on waiting... and we keep on waiting. And this voodoo we've found ourselves now was, so to speak, the end of the story. You understand – Republican Left and Junts –, pact, or at least so it seems to us, a plan, a specific mobility plan of the Vallès. When one looks at the Vallès mobility plan and looks at the PSC's motion, he finds a series of coincidences. And I think that in this case – that's why I say it's appropriate – is the door to this plenary because it votes its – its – mobility plan, its specific mobility plan of the Vallès. When the time comes to make it true, because, well, the Government of Spain... Because, clearly, for many years, Sabadell has been told essentially that "we – from nationalism – will not do anything if the Government of Spain does not let us choose the route and tell us or facilitate their payment, their financing. When you have the financing, when you have the desire to trace, when you have the consent – because from the Republican Left it is demanded for a long time – you have the consent of the territory, you have the consent of the institutions, now you come and you go. Left Republican and Junts say that, well, that mobility plan that we approved, that gave response to the 1.3 million valleys, therefore, no longer serves us and we have to bring this story to Parliament explaining I don't know what an orbital alternative of railways, which you know perfectly well – because, Mr Fernández, you know perfectly well – that this is not a quick answer; it is not a quick answer that you can [[Funnel veils]] Donate the Government of the Generality. Yes, yes, because you, besides – it's funny – one of the things you feel most proud of is that you have provoked this expectation of, precisely, keeping the sabadellencs waiting for this work to be done. Mr. Juli Fernàndez, you, who has been mayor of Sabadell, are proud that the sabadellencs cannot have this work finished in time. So, this is a voodoo. I hope that today we will approve, that we will add to it, this institution will also add to this consensus that is constantly demanded, that we have, therefore, the support of the Ple de l'Ajuntament de Sabadell, the Ple de l'Ajuntament de Terrassa, the Ple de l'Ajuntament de Castellar, the Ple de l'Ajuntament de Castellar, the Ple, surely, of the regional council, of the Government of Spain, of its plans for mobility and of this Parliament. Do you want consent? Here's the consensus. You want to know what Sabadell's people think? You know perfectly well: that this work is done as soon as possible better. All right, all right,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.187.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.188.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we have been thirty years – thirty years – of delays and thirty years of continuous reproach between administrations. This is the drama we have with the Fourth Belt, now converted into the North Round. And, although it seems that a year ago, then, this infrastructure began to see the solution, that light at the end of the tunnel, with the approval of the Vallés mobility plan, the issue, today, remains stuck as a result of the already frequent disagreements between the partners of the government. Let's see what the votes are like this afternoon. Well, this motion – we advance that we will vote in favour of the two points –, in addition to talking about the settlement of the Fourth Belt, also addresses the improvement of rail transport in the Vallés. The plans, as the Member who preceded me said, therefore pass through the orbital line of rhollies, with a line similar to that of the B-40, but it is evident that this is a pharaonic work, which is not done in two days, and therefore demands to look for more short-term alternatives. One of them is the one that proposes this motion of the Socialist Group, with the connection of the lines R4, R8 and also Railways of the Generalitat, as, moreover, already takes up this aforementioned plan of mobility of the Vallés of which he spoke. Another solution, for example, would also be to introduce improvements in frequency and expand the service of the R8, which is the responsibility of the Government of the Generalitat. But what about the Government of the Generalitat? Well, then let him complain, he claims constantly. You point out what the rest of the administrations do wrong – and don't get confused, that that seems legitimate to me – but, of course, it is curious the rigidity with which you judge others and the laxity with which you judge yourselves. Therefore, what I would tell you from here is that less demand for skills and complain and more exercise those they have and fulfil their own commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.189.0	So, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.190.0	Thank you. We didn't accept VOX exams because we have a vision of the State surely a different skin than you, right? We believe in federalism, and federalism also means collaboration and agreements between governments, that of Spain and that of Catalonia. Mr. Tremosa, it's not an election announcement, and you know it perfectly and you've made me a little trap from the Faristol, because months ago – months ago – the Government of the Generalitat, through the Territorial Council and the Ministry of Transport, is negotiating this solution, which is not a solution that has been invented, but it is a solution that comes out of the mobility plan of the Vallesos – exactly this one – which, moreover, is bundled with the North round of the Sabadell system on Terrassa. What is strange to me is that the governing partners of the previous legislature who approved this mobility plan, when this is intended to translate into reality, vote differently. It's that even all the directors of the CUP in Sabadell have defended this solution. Clearly, what is strange to me is that when this is publicly brought to Parliament and forced to vote, it turns out that those who support the Vallès mobility plan here do not want to be portrayed and do not know what they will vote for. Well, the CUP, yes; Republican Left, I don't know. "We are against the Fourth Belt to the Rock; yes, we are asking Spain to assess the cost of this work and to transfer resources to us. Home, that, ladies and gentlemen, is a little trickery, huh? [[Rialles.]] Listen, all day long demanding that they transfer their skills, there's an agreement, and when they want to transfer the ability to write this project and after they do the work and transfer the rooms, the euros, it turns out that some are also against it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] What we don't know is which proposal they have to pacify, the deputies of the Republican Left – and I finish, president – the Gran Via de Sabadell and the conclusion of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, which whenever it speaks of investments in the Vallès, you are against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.191.0	So, over with the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, just when the next item on the order of the day is over. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the follow-up report of the Council of Europe]] [[302-00175/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the follow-up report of the Council of Europe. It was introduced by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, and has the word, to expose it, by Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.192.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, very late. We present today the motion following the inquiry that we made in the final Ple respect the follow-up of the degree of compliment of the report known as the report Cilevics. The motion we are presenting today is developed in four very clear points and I want to quote them further. The first point I raise is which is the position of this Parliament respects this follow-up report. Do they share and denounce the majority of MEPs representing the people of Catalonia in the conclusions of the Cilevics report? Let's look at it, but democratic principles. Secondly, we also debate and vote whether the Government of the Generality has to demand from the Spanish State the immediate compliment and without further delay of the recommendations and conclusions of the Citizens' Report of the Council of Europe. The number of recommendations issued by the Council of Europe has been approximately one year and a hundred years ago incomplete for the Spanish authorities; a further incompliment that adds to the long list that the Spanish State shamefully accumulates respects international actors who have denounced the actions of the same Kingdom of Spain and who have not been endorsed. Let me mention a few: from the High Commission of the United Nations for Human Rights, from special rapporteurs and various special committees of the United Nations, from the Commissioner of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, for International Trial Watch, for Amnesty International. I – why not say so too – also neglect the opinions and considerations of various national legal experts, such as former magistrates of the Spanish Courts, lawyers and academic reputables of various Spanish universities. I will not tire of saying this: I am not surprised that the latest report by The Economist and his overall index of democracy has lowered the qualification of the Spanish democracy from full to defective. It's the only state – it's the only state – of Western Europe that suffered this fall last year. Thirdly, it is subject to this chamber's consideration if Parliament has to take a long-term follow-up to give knowledge of the conclusions of the follow-up report and seek to deepen in its degree of compliment. The questions raised by the report directly affect the citizens of Catalonia and therefore directly question this Parliament. We're gonna make the report and its failings an altarpiece. And, fourthly, she submits to consideration and vote if the Minister of Justice, Mrs Pilar Llop, is to be repudiated for lying in her parliament when she said that the Council of Europe opposed the follow-up report. I'll give you a little thought, and I'll explain the truth to you. Do you know what the representatives of the PP and the PSOE together with the parties of the right of Turkey and Italy did? They pressed the rest of the representatives to look to eliminate Spain's reference to the report, that is to say, they tried to remove the half of the report just where it is referring to Spain and, logically, the incompliments that are due to the end. I'd be so ashamed of myself. And, in case it wasn't enough, they also tried to prevent the report from being published and the citizens from knowing the abst of a report issued for the Council of Europe. I am not surprised that I want to store data, information and opinions collected on the recommendations made to Spain because you have put up with repression against independence. And I'm not surprised that the report found that the Spanish State didn't follow him, and that bothers them and embarrasses them. The result is that the report was put to the vote and the Spanish representatives of the PP and PSOE were practically left alone. That is to say, despite all attempts to avoid it, this report can be published without – repeat it, without – the web correspondent of the Council of Europe. As far as you're willing to fool the city, beyond what you're fooling yourself? How far are you willing to lie to Mrs. Llop? For us, it is clear: the minister lied and therefore deserves to be disproved. It is for all that we ask, those who think it is opportune, to give support to this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.193.0	It has the word, to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.194.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Rius, it's really Northern Dawn that you come out here to accuse Minister Llop of lying and do nothing but lie. One after another, lie after lie. He has been falsifying the reality about what happened in the Council of Europe for five_minutes. Look, indeed, the Cilevics report has fallen – indeed. At the Council of Europe, the Cilevics report has fallen. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe has indeed voted in favour of the positions advocated by the groups, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And, indeed, the mention, the reference that was made to Spain in a report, certainly, questionable, with conclusions based essentially on what the Synod of Greuges says, what it says Cultural Ómnium, what it says the Catalan News Agency, that is, the paradigm of reliability and rigour and journalistic objectivity... A report of these characteristics fell, in fact, on 21 June in the Council of Europe. Therefore, Minister Llop does not lie; you lie, Mr Rius. That's the first element I wanted to make meridianly clear. What the Cilevics report says, as I said, is based entirely on infundia. When Mr.Cilevics came to Barcelona he did not meet with the first party in Catalonia, which was then us; he refused to meet with our party to explain to him what was happening in Catalonia, and he relied exclusively on the sources he considered, let us say, reliable in Catalonia, which were, therefore, what I say to him: basically, the Syndic of Greuges, who, basically, has acted as a defender of the abusers of the authors of the coup d'état of the year 17. And he also took credit for what Ómnium Cultural said and what they were saying, in short, means similar to the separatist movement. I insist, to bring here today a motion on a report that is absolutely discredited – because it has been discredited by the Council of Europe itself – and, on top of that, to accuse Minister Llop of lying... I really tell you, I find it deliating. It simply seems to me to be of northern aurora. I don't know how you don't have any shame. I don't know what you'll say next when you get out here, because what you just said can be easily countered. And you, tell me: is what I have just said about the Council of Europe true or not? Has the Cilevics report fallen or not fallen? Because the reference to Spain has been withdrawn thanks to a vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Council of Europe. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Hey, don't tell me this isn't true. You have a capacity to deny the reality that is certainly amazing. I recognize the merit, the quail you have to deny the evidence, to deny the reality. It's one thing... I really want to hear what you are able to say when you come out here, and you say again that who lies is Minister Llop, when the one who lies... that I'm not telling you to be a liar; I'm just saying that he lies, he lies on this occasion. [[Rialles.]] He lies in this and some other, but it's an important hue – it's an important hue. I'm telling you from respect, Mr. Rius. And in this respect, taking advantage of the risueño situation, I do want to express my solidarity very seriously with the expression of this chamber, Mrs.Carme Forcadell, who has received an indiscriminate, fierce attack by separatist militants, who have accused her of botiflera and traitor for watering an apple with an October One urn. It has been the object of the vilification of activists on social networks, who have been offended by the use of an urn, which should be venerated by the whole of humanity, as a irrigator. The metaphor seems spectacular to me. He has watered an apple with an October One urn, and that has unleashed the anger of some of his fellows. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Certainly, what we are seeing in Catalonia... yes, conmilions. If you don't know the term, Joseph, look at the dictionary and you sure see it fast. Certainly, what happens in Catalonia is strictly of aurora boreal; I tell you again. There are certainly more than one, at least these who insult Mrs Forcadell for the use of the water urn, which is like the water itself. Certainly, it is something that attracts attention. That is why I wanted to express my full solidarity with the attacks on the new, traitorous botiflera. Indeed, you are degrading to some levels the public debate in Catalonia, which is shameful; I tell you so. You, Mr. Rius, will come out here again, will accuse Minister Llop of lying, will lie without any kind of repair, with the most absolute hump. I sincerely believe that you should make sure that you look at it, because you are turning the Catalan public debate into something that is certainly small, certainly small, as you usually say. The truth is that this motion is truly wet paper, Mr. Rius. Tell me otherwise and tell me what happened in the Council of Europe. It also illustrates and explains some invention that convinces someone. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.195.0	I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, have the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.196.0	Thank you, President. Before I start the speech that I had prepared, I need to make a reference to the intervention of Ciutadans' companies. Honestly, I don't think he knows what's going on with the Council of Europe, and that's why he turned the whole thing around. Do you know that, a little more than a year ago, the resolution 2381 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was adopted by a large majority on the basis of the report on Turkey and Spain by the socialist parliamentarian Boriss Cilevics with the title'Should policies be pursued for positions taken in the exercise of his mandate? ; a report explaining that the repressive response to independence that has extended the Spanish State from democratic standards and respect for human rights..., is true. Because, in the words of the same Cilevics, Turkey and Spain are two members of the Council of Europe where there are the highest names of elected policies pursued or undertaken. And, every time the State's action against the independence movement for the U of October referendum goes through the thirst of the international human rights institutions, the answer is always clear: that the violation of rights is denounced and measures are proposed to force the State to restore respect for the human rights of the independenceists and everyone. Let's get this straight. [[Some applause.]] We also remember here what the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Working Group did, when it asked for the release of political prisoners and the paralyzing of judicial proceedings, because it is not worth, outside this State, the excuses with which the repression is crushed. And every time you see more clearly the drift of the Spanish State, which goes from the rule of law to the rule by law, from a state of law to a judicial state, with the instrumentalization of the judiciary, when you interpret the law to criminalise and pursue political and ideological rivals. And this is the drift, too, which causes the extreme right to ascend with impunity to the Spanish State. And that's why silence and incapacity and inaction are even harder, when there's no connivance, and the direct responsibility of the Government of the Spanish State in this drift and this repression that still continues. [[Some applause.]] The Cilevics report and the resolution adopted by the Council of Europe on 2021 show the error that this leads to, this repression. And the follow-up report that was approved in June, a year ago, evidences the inaction of the PSOE and Unites government to make this mistake. What does this Resolution, adopted, 2381 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe tell us? Requires reform of rebellion and sedition crimes, establishes that they are not valid before the decriminalization of the 2005 referral organization. Tell us that there can be no crime if the action performed is not collected as the crime. First of all, democracy. From here, in coherence with this interpretation, the Council of Europe demands the fictitiousness of judicial persecution. And here they do not demand, let us make it clear, a partial solution as these prisoners were lost, but ask for a complete solution, call for a halt to criminalization and judicial persecution, which means returning from exiles, which means ending all cases against public servants and ending this spasm of Damocles that still weighs on the lives of many people. You're going to say that it ends with repression and violation of rights, and that that's why it ends with the state's current capacity to suppress and violate rights, and that it stops attacking and causing unjust pain to people and collectors. I insist, you're independent or not. And that also means amnesty, which is what we are asking the independenceists. The follow-up report, what you tell us, after a year of that resolution, is that there has been inaction by the Spanish State in the failure to complete the report, there are the pending causes that should have been withdrawn, the arbitrariness of the judiciary when it wants to review the government's pardons and indolence when it does nothing about the revision of the crimes of seditiousness and rebellion. And we believe that the PSOE-PSC, instead of making changes and finding this point to resolve the political conflict..., unfortunately, we see them trapped in a vision of Spanish nationalism that drags them through, if necessary, over democracy and human rights. And we've seen it in Catalan. From the Republican Left we find the resolution timely, motion that presents us today Junts. We believe that the resolution of the Council of Europe is a good full road on which we must build the political and democratic response to a political problem of clearly democratic arrangements. Here, too, we want to recognize, like the Republican Left, the work done by the ponent, the socialist read Boriss Cilevics, and all the members of the Parliamentary Assembly who have worked and approved these resolutions and this report. And, in particular, thank the good work of Senator Laura Castel, the only Catalan independentist at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And we will not only support it, but we believe that the groups that understand its political action from the compromise with democracy and human rights should also support the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.197.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.198.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. There are no advisers... Ladies and gentlemen, there are three documents, effectively: a first document of Mr Cilevics; the follow-up report, a_second document, and a third document, which is referred to by the Deputy of Ciutadans, of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights. You're right, Mr. Congressman. And you're right, Mr. Congressman. But they're different reports. We don't sweep everything, which, if not, we won't clear up. And every one says, "No, it's what you say the report is..., and blah, blah, blah. Well, we read what the report says, don't we? I told you, we won't vote for it. No, because there are things we don't agree with. Of course, I suppose you've got the same thing going on. There are things they don't agree with, but they vote for it, right? What's wrong? Do you agree with everything? [[Pause.]] Ah, all right. Okay. What does this report say? "The Assembly recognizes that Spain is a living democracy, with a culture of free, open political debate and that the mere expression of independent opinions is not a reason for criminal persecution. That's what the report says. You will vote for it. Perfect. We want you to be aware that we agree with this, but there are other elements to the report that we do not share, but that we agree with this. You too, for what I see, will vote for it. They agree that Spain is a living democracy and the independence debate is not persecuting. All right. Listen to me, "that the expression of independent opinions is not a motive for criminal persecution, literally says that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, perfect – perfect. What else do you say? To the Turkish gang, what else does the report say? Home, there is a particularly interesting case that is still pending, which refers to the presumed involvement of the defendants in promoting Russia's participation in the Catalan independence process. All right. Perfect. That's what the report says. You will vote for it. Perfect. And when they ask that you follow up on all this, they will also refer to this, you. What else does the report say? The need for an open and built dialog between everyone. You will vote for it. And he also says that there was also a proposal for a negotiating table, for the participation of all the political forces of the Catalan Parliament, which the Catalan Government has not done. You will vote for this. Very good – very good – perfect. There is a lot of demand for what others have to do, but very little self-demand. What we're going to fail here is a government that didn't do it. [[Some applause.]] He's the only one who says the report he should do. Listen, look, we're in a room following an inquiry into the government of Catalonia. The only one who says the report of the Government of Catalonia is this, and nothing has happened. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, did any dialyx commissions take place in Catalonia? Is it done? Have we met? Next point: demand the Spanish government. Of the points asked by the report of the Spanish Government, the first point was: "Reform the dispositions on rebellion and siege. This does not correspond to the Spanish Government. Oh, no, you don't know, what do they say to Parliament? You don't know, you don't know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? You're saying the report, too, aren't you? « Consider the possibility of indulging. Is this over or not? "Remove remaining procedures. Correspond to the judge. "Guarantee the arrangements over badly. They don't correspond to the government. « Refrain from demanding policies that deny their condition on their political opinions. Is this over or not? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's fine. So the report says yes – the report says yes, the report says yes! [[Some applause.]] And I have to read it – and I have to read it. [[Widow's remorse.]] I can feel it. Well, can I read it? The report says: "Despite what the Ombudsman says – that this was to be done – the Government has not followed the Ombudsman's recommendation and, therefore, I am pleased – the Member of Parliament – "declaring that recommendation 10.3.5_has been fully implemented. I said the report – I said the report. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home, all right. No, yes, of course, it's from the report I'm staying with what I'm interested in, and what I'm not interested in, no. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done... listen'm... I'm done, Madam President. What does El País say, huh? – the Committee on Legal Affairs? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Clearly, El País doesn't interest them either. Well, then tell a truth that was just said a moment ago: the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights included that, through a vote of thirteen votes to twelve, all these references were withdrawn. And that's what the minister said. Surely, it changed if it was the Commission or the Council, but, to see, I agree, this may be a small... but this is not a lie; this is what happened to the European Council's Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.199.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Tarradas has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.200.0	Thank you very much, President. Good evening – good night, almost –, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Junts Parliamentary Group presents us with a motion that refers to a report that was processed at the Council of Europe Consultative Assembly, a body that, by the way – do not want to confuse – is not part of the institutions of the European Union, and entitled under the rhetorical question « Should politicians be persecuted for their statements made in the exercise of their office? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We see you've been a little addicted since the beginning. What they bring us today in this motion is, basically, a chaff. The only intention they have is to give voice to a pseudo-report of follow-up issued by a Latvian, pro-Russian and nostalgic Member of the Soviet Union, Mr Cilevics, a gentleman who came to Spain to swallow all the false propaganda of separatism and, subsequently, to transfer it to the consultative assembly in a twisting way in order to, well, try to remove the colors to Spain and try to interfere with our national sovereignty, attacking the separation of powers and the principles of the rule of law. At the end of the day, the Cilevics report would be an empty document, without any legal link whatsoever. And I say 'it would be because you know, even if you lie, that this report, in addition to wet paper, has already fallen, which is why it has already been explained. Some amendments have already been tabled, the whole false side of Spain has been withdrawn and that report is no longer in place. Another ridiculous, another ridiculous more separatism at European level. That today separatism present in this chamber a senseless motion, with the same usual recital of lies, only demonstrates the disconnection of separatism with real Catalonia, with the real challenges that Catalonia currently has. While fuel prices only rise, making it impossible for thousands of citizens of Catalonia to move, while theft and insecurity only increase in municipalities like Figueres, for example, you make deaf ears and present us churros like this. Look, VOX has come to this plenary with a motion to give a boost to tourism, to promote the prosperity of Catalans and to place Catalonia as a top tourist destination. We also bring an inquiry that faces one of the biggest crime problems affecting our region, which is illegal occupation, which you silence and protect. And you, separatism, led by Junts, therefore, bring us this parliamentary chasm on a report that, in addition to false and no legal effects, is no longer even in force. This shows, once again, that separatism lacks a project for Catalonia. You are still enquired about the process, which has only brought ruin, division, violence, the loss of thousands of jobs and businesses that have fled our region. But that, of course, of course, for you this has assumed and assumes and you want me to continue to assume your modus vivendi. But, look, don't lie; don't lie with this. Moreover, there is no such persecution in Spain as you say. If Mrs Borràs is to be tried shortly, it is not, of course, because of her ideology; it is for alleged crimes of prevarication, of documentary falsehood, of embezzlement of the money of all Catalans. If Mr. Carles Puigdemont is in search and capture and Mr. Junqueras and the rest of his gang were sentenced to prison, it was not for his ideology, but for starring, in the eyes of all, a coup d'état in 2017. In short, separatist gentlemen, this pseudo-report of the Council, which today seeks to rescue from the box of shame, is the umpteenth demonstration of how separatism, therefore, goes through the institutions alone and only seeking its own party benefit. This, in fact, reminds me a little of Mr Puigdemont's presence in the European Parliament. During the year he was there, I remember he was walking from one side to the other like a soul in pain, walking around the cafes and trying to beg the attention of the other MEPs, who, as soon as they saw him passing, were already making a break to avoid crossing with him and giving them the plate again. This is the ridiculous harvest of separatism in Europe and wherever it goes. And speaking of ridiculous: Puigdemont's new judicial defeat in the European court. Of course, great day for all good Spaniards. European justice has given us reason. The Spanish courts are above other rules. New victory for VOX and, of course, new victory for Spanish sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.201.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the words... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I'm sorry. The Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win. Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.202.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, indeed, the Civics report is very relevant, certainly, because the Council of Europe is a very important institution on the European institutional map, because it recognizes a political conflict that requires a democratic resolution, because it recognizes and denounces repression on the part of the Spanish State with all evidence and normality, indicates a minimum basis for the democratic resolution of the conflict, and, certainly, denounces the failure of most of these bases on the part of the Spanish State. On an international level, therefore, it is a questionable report that places things in their place and gives them their name. To the situation that the report denounces now we have to add to it the aggravation provoked, for example, by the « Catalanate or by the recent restriction of the right of participation and political representation in the case of the deputy Lluís Puig. And the report of 2021 asks to reform the crime of siege and rebellion, to release political prisoners, to withdraw extradition proceedings against exile, to withdraw charges against the rest of the charges for the U of October referendum, to initiate an open and constructed dialogue with the Catalan political forces, not to sanction symbolic actions that only express solidarity – remember our companion Pau Juvillà, today disabled by an anti-repressive symbolic action – and, moreover, to question the persecution of the Court of Auditors against the charges of the Government of the Generality and the Diplomacy. Indeed, this report in some way sets out a resolution agenda for the conflict, marks a territory of democratic resolution of the conflict in the measure that sets out the problems and sets out the basis for starting a genuine negotiation and a genuine democratic resolution of this conflict. I am sure that the report of 22 shows that the petitions and proposals of the 2021 report by the Spanish State are largely incomplete. Therefore, it also situates with realism where we are. In one conflict there are two parts, and in these moments in the other band there is none. There is no one with a real will to resolve this conflict democratically; on the contrary, repression continues. And, also, we have to note that the democratic shortcomings that the Council of Europe has in mind are neither short-term nor exceptional. It is about structural democratic deficits, which are of the rule, which are of the state, rather than of governments, which, on the margins of their political colour, share repressive marks. The application of Article 155 of the Constitution, the law bites, the police infiltrations into independent organizations or the "Catalangate are obvious examples that make the PSOE and its government fully responsible for this repressive march, which is of state, which is of rule. Because, effectively, the Spanish State and its governments face their multiple crises – democratic, economic, social and territorial – with repression and democratic restrictions. It's a matter of state culture. But, well, we also have to say, in the end, that it is not just the Spanish State, which is responsible for the problem. Today the Government of the Generalitat is not part of the solution, but it is also part of the problem. I, why? Therefore a table of dialog without results that at international level renders the Spanish Government to the detriment of the independence movement, in a context of descalation and deactivation of the conflict and the permanence of repression, agenda of the reunion and institutional stability, that mark political priorities and a model of economic development with full harmony with the Circle of Economy and that increases our dependence on the Spanish State. All this to the detriment of the defence of the territory, of the public services and of the redistribution of wealth, and with a waiver of the sovereignty of Parliament in the defence of rights before the impositions of the Constitutional Court, such as, for example, in the field of housing. And to all this add to it, moreover, the repression that comes directly from the Generality: denunciations, institutional racism, political repression materialized in accusations of the Generality, false complaints of the Squadron Mosses, etc., with drawings of persons pending trial and hundreds of reprisals by direct action of the Generality. Well, in view of the lateness, what will the Government of the Generality do? We know that the Spanish government is preparing security for a late heat, they say, in responding to social demands with repression. What will the Government of the Generality do? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The Government of the Generality – I finish, President – will defend rights and sovereignty to defend and guarantee them, or will respond with the agenda of the reunion and repression of the protest. I'm done. We will vote in favour of this motion, pointing out, however, that Europe will only take us seriously if we generate a democratic conflict and destabilisation that imposes a genuine democratic resolution of the conflict – if it does not do anything about it, I end up – by means of self-determination and amnesty, because rights are not called for, they are taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.203.0	Now, Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.204.0	Thank you, President. Before entering the matter of the content on the motion, I would like to make a clarification with regard to the question made this morning by the French Dalmases deputy to Councilwoman Alsina. I know it's hard for the councillor not to follow. Mr Dalmases said that yesterday in the European Parliament, in the vote on the recognition of Kosovo, the common people voted against it. [[Someone said, "No!]] And that... yes, yes he did, I went to look for it literally – the literal size I went to look. And it's not true. The commons did not vote against; the commons... MEP Ernest Urtasun voted in favour. What happens is they say it, they start it, they start it running and then you see it and you lie about it. So, if, indeed, he didn't say so... Yes, I will ask him, then, now a correction, because it is because I went to seek the size of the recording, and he said that the commons we have added to VOX, Ciutadans and the PP voting against Kosovo's recognition. You're lying. So I just made it clear that this is a lie. Now, as we enter the content of the motion, the content of the motion speaks of a report that follows a resolution that was approved a year ago. Indeed, the report – I think it has already been explained – went down from the committee. Therefore, the report withdrew the deputy, the person putting, because, in withdrawing a paragraph, decided not to throw it forward. Therefore, it did not go to debate in the assembly, it did not go beyond the commission; therefore, it is a little difficult to make diffusion and to make claim of a report that did not pass. And that's important to say. Beyond that, and speaking of the resolution to which the report refers..., and which we in Madrid voted in favour, in recognition of what this resolution says and that the Spanish Government should make a case to them – it should make a case. And we agree that Spain – and we have said it many times – is not a perfect democracy, it is not. It's an imperfect democracy. There is much to be improved, in many themes; in rights and freedoms, sure; in right to housing, too; in right to people without papers and in irregular administrative situation, too, much to do. That there are things that are moving, little by little, but that are moving. That one of our bets is the reform of the crime of sedition, too. It's over the table and it's moving. Little by little; no one says no, but you know that little by little it may have been better to say that everything is as long as it is not, and then it turns out that it ends up being a bluff. So, we're being honest, it's going a little bit, but it's moving forward. The reform of the biting law is advancing. The pardons were a reality. Political prisoners, political leaders, political prisoners are on the road. So that's what happened, too. What turns out to be funny is Juntes' double morale at the time of recognizing resolutions. Because, of course, to the resolutions of the Council of Europe, which are not binding, effectively, are recommendations, we must do so, the Government of the Spanish State must do so and implement them. Okay. In the resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia, should the Government of the Government of Catalonia do so and implement them? It's a direct question. Do you have to iron them? Why did this Parliament approve a resolution recognizing that there is a rule of apartheid in Palestine based on what Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International say, and Councilwoman Alsina said nothing about it, that she thought nothing about it and ran to call the Israeli ambassador to say, "No, no, we won't do that, we won't do it, we won't do it, do we? [[Some applause.]] Because resolutions of the Council of Europe for which they are entitled, yes; resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia in which Junts for Catalonia votes against, no. And it is that, moreover, these resolutions – and you know it – were based on reports from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, two international organizations that the spokesman Josep Rius cited in his intervention to justify the violation of human rights in Spain. So, the violation of human rights in Spain, yes; the recognition of apartheid in Israel by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, no, because that is trivializing apartheid. So, what are we doing here? What is the case with the resolutions or not with the resolutions? Therefore, we will not support this motion for a resolution for the hypocrisy of Junts for Catalonia at the time of measuring the fulfilment of human rights and resolutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.205.0	Finally, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.206.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'm..., Mrs. Segovia, that you seem to have now discovered the gunpowder. Yes, separatism manipulates. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. It was good enough for them to recognize him from time to time. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, we come here today – it has already been said – from the report of the Latvian MP, the report Cilevics, where the paragraph was withdrawn – which I see there has been a bit of controversy here –..., the paragraph was withdrawn, well, it was rejected, it was voted and it was rejected, and therefore the Member what he did was to withdraw those conclusions. Well, this motion I think is one more example of procession, of concealment of the truth, of manipulation to present yourself as victims, when you actually tried to be the executioners of democracy. It is true that the Latvian MEP's initial text bought quite a few mantras of Catalan separatism, which I am not surprised at, because, of course, if he reports with Ómnium Cultural and reports with the former syndic of pelages, Mr Ribó obviously buys those mantras. He did, for example, as the PSC sometimes does, and also bought those authoritarian tics of separatism. So what the Member wanted, in his initial text, was to end the separation of powers, and to dictate, from a political institution, the withdrawal, for example, of the requests for extradition of the fugitive Puigdemont. Mrs Serret said, she was giving us first-class lessons in democracy. Well, first of all democracy is the separation of powers, Mrs Serret. I know that you do not have it very clear, we already checked it here in 2017, with that totally authoritarian law of yours, the law of transitoryity, where, according to you, the executive power had full control over the judiciary. But it turns out that we Democrats don't think so, and we don't think it should be, but we believe in the separation of powers, and we also believe that no politician has to be above the law. It's called the politician Pujol, it's called Puigdemont or it's called Laura Borràs. Look, the text of this Member, we say, was rejected by the Council of Europe – the paragraph referring to Spain – among other reasons because it is based on the same lie that we have heard here so many times and that you have repeated again today. And it is that the politicians of the process are judged by their opinions, but the reality is that you were judged by your terrible crimes against democracy. Specifically, by sedition and also by embezzlement, because you allocated and spent money from Catalans on a project...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.207.0	One moment, Mrs. Roldán – one moment. It only takes a moment – I've stopped time. There are still two interventions. He asks you to silence, please, the hemicicle, because the speaker has to go every once in a while and cry more and more because it is impossible that she can feel herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.208.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. In fact, he was going there to say because there were a lot of rebounds. Well, what I was saying was that you weren't judged by your ideas, but you were judged by your crimes; specifically, the crime of sedition and the crime of embezzlement, because you spent Catalan money on a project that was illegal. You wanted to turn most Catalans into foreigners on your land, and you also wanted to take away our rights, political rights, jumping over the Constitution, jumping over the Statute and the Rules of the Chamber. I repeat, first of all democracy, Mrs Serret. And it is also that you are still in the same position, because it seems that you are now also trying to skip the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber – Rule 25.4 – which clearly states that the President of Parliament should be suspended by the Bureau because an oral trial has been opened for her, not as an independentist, but as a result of alleged corruption. You continue, however, saying that it is because you are independent. But I insist that this no longer hangs, that when you get caught, supposedly, with the contract splitting cart here there's nothing to do. And I simply insist that we are all equal before the law. And here, then, no one believes that Mrs Borràs will be judged by her views, by her ideology, by her statements. Quite the contrary: here was an investigation, in addition to by the Mossos d'Esquadra, who were following the case of a convicted drug dealer and counterfeiter of coins, who apparently had business– « trapis, he calls it in one of the mails – with Mrs Borràs. The High Court of Justice notes that there may be continuing offences of prevarication, misappropriation or documentary fraud, among others, of these traps, of the fractionation of invoices to give public money to this gentleman convicted of drug trafficking. Therefore, you will stop repeating that this is an ideological persecution, because here, for almost a decade, and in this Parliament and in the media that depend on the Generalitat, nothing has been talked about but independence, and here no one has been judged by your opinion. And if not, there they have the gentlemen of the CUP, that none has been judged by sedition. I don't think the trial lie is sustained anywhere anymore. Europe does not believe them – it was clearly leaked to Congressman Cilevics, but not to the European institutions – but you continue and continue and continue to intoxicate with your half-truths. It seems that you sometimes follow under the influence of the Puigdemont friends. But I insist that the truth always opens its way. You have spent millions and millions of euros of public money trying to capture foreign politicians for the independence cause, but you have failed. And today we are going to vote in favour of the truth, which means, of course, voting against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.209.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.210.0	Very quickly, because it's all just two minutes. But logically, Mr. Pérez and others who have done so, vacate the web page and look if the report exists – the original of a year ago – and is published and approved, and look if the follow-up report is also there. It's very simple. On the other hand, it is very easy: look whether or not the crimes of siege have been reformed; look if it is true that some pardons have been obtained, but there is a supreme court that is now looking to see if, with a change of composition of this one, they can be reversed; look if the rest of the charges against all the U of October proceedings have been withdrawn; look – forgive – if there is an open and constructed dialog, and they have met twice and so – I don't know, go –; look if no symbolic actions have been sanctioned that only expressed solidarity, and look if, moreover, there was no question of the persecution being done by the Court of Auditors against the heads of government and government. Three associations of judges – three – complained to the Spanish Government that they had put in place the necessary diplomatic instruments to prevent the original declaration, that of a year ago, from being approved. In fact, Spanish deputies pressed ahead because the report was not approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights. Even the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs made an angry note aimed at lowering the text and willing to confuse public opinion with the strong pronouncements of this report. Lord of Ciutadans, lying is saying that there is linguistic conflict in Catalonia; lying is saying that there is a conflict of coexistence between Catalans or that there is a social fracture; lying is saying that the U of October was a time of democracy. I don't know if he met or didn't meet Mr. Cilevics with you when you were the first game, but maybe—maybe, maybe—he already knew that the question of his party was in danger of extinction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.211.0	Yes; why ask me the word, Mr Dalmases?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.212.0	I understand that, as a Member who was not involved in the motion, I could refer to Rule 87 for reference.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.213.0	A minute, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.214.0	Mrs Segovia, this morning, if you have followed me – because, in fact, there was no Member, as there was very no Member – if you have followed me, I said that the vast majority of Spanish MEPs, the total practice, voted against Kosovo, and that the vast majority of Catalan MEPs voted in favour of recognising it. I understand his discomfort: they have weeks to eat the 1,000_million of military spending and the shameful defense of what happened to Melilla. [[Widow's remorse.]] You come to the vast majority of Catalonia, which is freedom and which is human rights. We'll wait for them there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.215.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.216.0	For motion number 19 we would like to read point 16.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.217.0	Reading point 16. Well, then, the debate is over, so I guess we'll proceed to the vote on the motions that have been substantiated this late, which are points 19 to 24 of the order of the day, and that the vote of Congressman Lluís Puig will be counted in the sense that he indicated to the spokesman of his group, that the delegate has. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies for tourism development (continuation)]] [[302-00170/13]] We begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into policies for tourism development. Let's start by voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 13 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point has also not been approved with 13 votes in favour, 119 votes against. Ask the secretary to read point number 16.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.218.0	« To promote urgent and structural measures in coordination with the rest of the competent administrations to curb the erosion of the coast and to recover the sorra of the beaches of Catalonia, specifically Prat, Viladecans, Gavà, Castelldefels, Badalona, Sitges, Montgat, Vilafortuny and Terres de l'Ebre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.219.0	We proceed to vote on the remaining points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were not approved with 18 votes in favour and 114 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the initiation of the 2022-2023 course in the public education service (continuation)]] [[302-00171/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the initiation of course 2022-2023. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 30 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 38 abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 63 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 67 abstentions. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 55 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 52 votes in favour, 11 against and 69 abstentions. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was approved with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 50 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 18 abstentions. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved with 113 votes in favour and 18 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00173/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the planning of the 2022-2023 school year. We vote points 1 and 10. The vote begins. These points were approved with 68 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was approved with 57 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 43 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was approved with 115 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. We vote points 11 and 12. The vote begins. These points were approved with 121 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number 14. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour and 64 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 132 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance sheet of the 2021-2022 school year (continuation)]] [[302-00176/13]] Yes, ma'am... Why ask me the word, Mrs. Ndiaye?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.220.0	Yes; President, ask for the word in order to read high point 5 of the following motion, since it is a point that has already been approved in a previous motion, and wanted to remember this aspect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.221.0	Perfect. Thank you very much. So we'll vote..., on the 22nd of the order of the day, we'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 22 votes in favour, 102 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 63 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 29 votes in favour, 64 votes against, 38 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 97 abstentions. Ask the third secretary who, before voting point 5, the legeixi in high view.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.222.0	« Give a three-year transitional period to the educational centres to implement the new curricula, accompanied by the Department of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-07-3502.223.0	The vote begins. This point was approved with 94 votes in favour and 38 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7 was not approved with 56 votes in favour and 75 votes against. We're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved with 121 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number nine. The vote begins. This point was approved with 68 votes in favour and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number 10. The vote begins. This point was approved with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point 12. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 35 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 33 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into infrastructure (cont'd)]] [[302-00172/13]] We then vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into infrastructure. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 82 votes in favour and 50 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the follow-up report of the Council of Europe (continuation)]] [[302-00175/13]] And finally, we vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the follow-up report of the Council of Europe. Let's start by voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved with 73 votes in favour and 59 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 73 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] The session's up. Thank you very much.
