ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session [[Question to the Government on the impetus of language policy]] [[300-00211/13]] And we do this with the question of the agenda item: the question to the Government on the impetus of language policy, which was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. And, to give her the presentation, Mrs Irene Aragonès has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.2.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Good morning, Counselor. Through this inquiry, we want to know how the linguistic policy of the Department of Culture is promoted, what actions have already been completed and what steps the Council has taken to deal with the situation in Catalonia; a situation that is characteristic of two evidences. The first is that we need to equip ourselves with all the first tools of a state to ensure the survival and normalization of the catalá. This will be the only way we can guarantee that everyone can have full access to it, that you are available everywhere, and that everyone can learn. Until we do, however, we will never give up doing all the necessary policies to increase our knowledge and facilitate our access. Because we want to achieve a multilingual society, which respects the linguistic rights of the entire population, in a _framework that guarantees the full continuity of the Catalan language as the country's own language, and also of the occidentity and of the Catalan sign language; a society that does not secret the population in different linguistic communities and that takes advantage of linguistic diversity as a source of social cohesion and cultural richness, in a socio-linguistic and cultural context every time more complex, interconnected and globalized. The second evidence is that, after a decade without political initiative, it is up to us to pull ourselves together and generate this new momentum to save the language from institutions and from all areas of the country. Cal, so, as we've seen in this first year of the legislature, recover the abandoned level of action. It is necessary to reverse the paralysis and activate all the mechanisms that must allow the development of laws that are guarantors of the linguistic rights of the citizenry. So, counsel, on the first evidence I was commenting on, you know that having all the tools of a state like us would make it possible to ensure the survival of the catalá and we would not find ourselves with the magnitude of injustices that I am now naming. As the castle is official throughout the State and is the only official language of the central institutions, the Catalan has only been recognized as official where the native historical language is, and only if the State has declared it. Except Bulgaria, which in this it did copy Spain, this fact does not go to other widely multilingual countries of the European Union. The legal mark favors the castle to the detriment of the català in multiple areas. Many laws and other state regulations impose the obligation to know and use the castle, and simultaneously restrict or nullify the duty to know the català and the possibilities, also, to be able to serve it. This is the case, for example, of the officials of the Spanish Administration in Catalonia, of the labelling of products and of numerous official documents and a long etcetera. The Catalan can not be used in the Spanish Parliament, unlike states that are linguistically federal, such as Belgium, Canada, Finland, among others, and at the initiative of Esquerra Republicana, the later proposal to modify the reform of the Congress of Deputies' Rules of Procedure on the use of official languages and statutory recognition of autonomous communities was rejected – this same May passed – with votes against the PSOE. The Catalan can also serve the European Parliament, despite having 10_million inhabitants who speak it, and all that is the most widely spoken language of the European Union, over official languages such as Danish, Finnish, Slovenian, Croatian or Latvian. And no one escapes from the fact that the official status and recognition of Catalonia in the European Union passes through the hands of the Spanish Government, according to the Spanish Government, which is the one who has to ask the Council of Europe and include the treaties. But the Spanish State is still blocking it. And he's stopped it until seven times. Spain also complements the European charter of regional and minority languages, and refuses to investigate complaints of hard linguistic discrimination. According to the 21st, the Committee of Experts of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages stated that the Spanish State is not fulfilling its commitments in relation to the rights of Catalan speakers. Another clear example, and more clearly, passed with the law of the audiovisual. Left Republican we negotiated the law of audiovisual with two clear objectives: to protect català and to give support to the country's audiovisual industry. We agreed with the Spanish Government on the presence of Catalan linguistic quotas, equestrian and galleic to audiovisual plataforms, a state foundation for Catalan doubling and a fair distribution of resources with independent producers, based on cultural richness to audiovisual. This failure of the agreements by the PSOE has caused us to vote against it. He preferred to agree with the right to benefit the great producers, who probably make them the political campaign, touching of death the independent production and posing very difficult that they can arise, from then on, nine« And on the second evidence, we see in September of last year this reactivation in linguistic policy: the general policy debate was approved a proposal for a resolution of this Parliament in favour of the National Linguistic Pact. Because now it is, more than ever, when we need to add all possible actions and efforts to save the català. The Secretary for Linguistic Policy responded promptly, took charge, and has already cleared the pact, which has provided the maximum social and institutional support for the development of all the necessary policies for the use and knowledge of Catalan language. We know that a wheel has already been made all over the country to explain what it is and to be able to add as many actors as possible. Also, counsel, we know that another of the great challenges we have is to push català into the audiovisual and digital world. Today, that the data show a clear reversal of the social use of language between the younger generations, it is necessary to devise new actions that accompany those that already exist in this strategic field, developing linguistic policies that are capable..., that are effective, i.e., in this key sector, audiovisual and digital; given that they indicate that the catalá now assumes less than 1_percent of the cataláleg of international platforms. The exception is Filmin, which almost offers a quarter of its catalate. Counsel, what can we do because these producers follow the example of Filmin? How to increase the presence of audiovisual products produced, doubled or subtitled in catal and occidental? How to encourage the creation of Catalan content in social media and how to increase the presence of Catalan in digital voice technologies? We think that the Media City audiovisual hub project will probably have a very decisive role to play. We also understand that the functioning of language promotion and protection mechanisms in all areas is taking place: in culture, in the audiovisual world, in education, in the future of language, in the education world, we have responded decisively to the actions of the courts with the decree and the proposal of the approved law – in matters also of social, accompanying and gathering of enterprises and in the international sphere. And despite these two evidences, and despite all these adversities, we take the upper hand and responsibility to reverse the situation of the catalá because we are in time. It must work tirelessly to respect the individual and collective rights of all citizens, and language is not a paradigmatic example. In this context, the Catalan language, the occency and the Catalan sign language, as in Catalonia's own languages, must be endowed with all those tools that are attached because it is preserved in the territory that is propitious and in order to guarantee the future and to ensure the right of the citizenry to use the language of the country without any restrictions. The Catalan language, therefore, has to be the cohesion language of the city council; it is the vehicle of expression of a society; it is the characteristic trait of a culture and it is heritage, also, of all the inhabitants of the country, know it more or know it less. It is necessary to intensify this work so that the normalization of the Catalan language continues to advance and because the citizenry can actually serve the Catalan language in all its spheres. In conclusion, she would like to welcome the presentation of the report of the National Linguistic Pact that we have the opportunity to take the decisions that would guarantee the future of català, a language of cohesion and finding, but also an instrument of competitiveness and collective identity, a language of presence and future. That's why, with a year of legislature in front of the council, we ask him how to boost the linguistic policy of the Department of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.3.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.4.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MP Aragonès; bon dia, MPs and MPs. Many thanks for your intervention, which I totally agree with. A little more than a year ago, we took on the challenge of leading our country's cultural policies with the Department of Culture team. From the first moment we have fixed ourselves as one of our main axes of work the promotion of Catalan language; it is within our four main axes of the department. Because we're at a turning point and, as the motto of the national language pact says, "we don't have to talk today to talk about it tomorrow. The language lives in a complex and delicate situation, but reversible if the attached measures apply. And we're applying them. We have made great strides: some are already clear today; others, we will see their fruits in time. We want the català to be considered for our citizenship, regardless of its origins and the other languages I usually use, as everyone's idiom and practiced for everyone, at the same time, as Joan Fuster would say, from whom we reel the centenary of his birth. Because it's a matter that surrounds all of us, and in which we have to work from the consensus. We have already had examples here, in Parliament itself, of the good work that is due to end in the language camp when we work together and for southern Catalonia. Among all of us, we are starting a new stage in our country's linguistic policy, because to improve the situation of the Catalan language we had to explain ourselves without beginnings, with the utmost sincerity and visibility, without by any means, the data we had on the table. We need to know it so we can recognize it. It has been difficult to realize reality, but it is also an opportunity; as I said, this opportunity to renew the great consensus of language, which has already given very tangible and remarkable results. With most of you we have approved here the law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching, which is resulting in the Catalan debate being back to where it is to be, which is at the hands of professionals who really know about it, following pedagogical and socio-linguistic criteria. In fact, after Parliament approved the law and the decree of the law, this time we heard that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia saw the impossibility of applying the sentence with the new legal mark. So the debate goes back where it has to be. Now I'd like to talk about what we're doing for the language from the department. Of the multitude of actions that we are doing, you know that the great project of country that we are due in term – and now you said, MP Aragonès – is the national pact for language. After Parliament's resolution, which we do not forget was approved for the eighty-five per cent of this chamber, we have prepared a report on the situation of the language. Now we find ourselves in the participatory process of the pact, which will end on September 30. The details of the participatory process will be donated by the Secretary of Linguistic Policy in a similar appearance to the Committee on Culture. We have done forty raids across the country – which are said to be fast – and there have been experts and people from various social sectors. Moreover, a number of deliberative sessions for civil society have also been completed. When we have all the inputs, we will collect and analyse the proposals and draft a first version of the pact. We would like to have a definite text during the late hours. On the basis of these agreements, the Secretary for Linguistic Policy will develop the multi-annual language policy platform, which will structure the policies of this area of its own years. I insist: from the català, let's talk about it today to talk about it tomorrow. During this long year of the legislature, we have also enhanced linguistic policies with a view to Catalan countries, through the agreements adopted at the Palma declaration of 2017. In the language camp, we held meetings in Barcelona, Valencia and Palma, to coordinate between governments. And how palpable it was, for example, the three territories we have put in operation the joint web on the official certificates of català. And, recently, we have introduced the Shared Letters project, so as to create a circuit of writers in our language. In another very important field for us, which is the audiovisual, in the previous inquiry I already spoke about the help of the Department of Culture to the Catalan audiovisual. We have increased the audiovisual budget to 36.9 million, confirming this government's commitment to one of the sectors that we consider strategic for our language. And we have the will to have four films and four series of large formats in català every year. In addition, we have seen later days as negotiations with Netflix continue to bear fruit. And we're starting to incorporate folds and subtitles in català into the films and series of your catalog. And here, let me give you a little bit of detail. A few days ago, you must have seen in the media and in the media that Netflix has incorporated the first Catalan doubling of Steven Spielberg's TV3, Taurus background. This forms part of the silent, but constant, background pocket that we are making from the Department of Culture. They do not know how to work in another way: they insist, they persist, so that we will pass. Specifically, this incorporation is the result of the technical work stage in which we find ourselves. Each platform works differently and we're looking at how we can make all the files compatible. Let's hope, then, that these news is converted into a normal fact, as it should always have been. Let's talk now about the orange tree. This government has been fully compromised with the language of the Occitan, orange to the Aran, as the fundamental element of the identity of the own people of the Aran. Identity and language, we remember, recognized and endorsed in Article 11 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and for the Law of Occupancy, orange to the Aran. In one band, for what it does to grants, encany has increased by fourteen_per_cent. And, on the other hand, we have increased coordination with the Aranian authorities. Because our goal is that the policies on the Aranis, inside and outside the Aran, are in line with the General Council. That's why, for the first time, the Aran General Council took part in the committee that was holding the aid. And the criteria that the actions had to have at least some impact on the Aran Valley were introduced, because we have neither made nor will we make any change that would lower the linguistic policies on the Aran. It is also to increase this tune that we have helped to start the courses at the University of Barcelona, based on the common European mark, which have been very successful. Apart from Catalan and Arabic, the impetus of linguistic policy in our country would not be complete without Catalan sign language. It is also between our functions to protect it, spread it and guarantee its use. It is for this reason that this 2022 has increased in twenty thousand euros the endowment of the line of subsidies for the project of promotion and diffusion of the Catalan sign language. One of the most important areas for any language is to enable it to learn and for that good teaching materials. In this sense, we are advancing in the publication of the levels of Catalan sign language in the common European mark of reference for teaching and learning languages. On the other hand, we also work to explain what the Catalan sign language is. This is why we are opening an exhibition this late that took place with the involvement of the community of signers and intended to extend the knowledge of this language in the joint venture of the Catalan society. Finally, just said past we presented the national plan of the book and reading. According to data from the Institut Català d'Empreses Culturals, year 2021 a 69,9_per_cent of Catalans read a book in the quarter, a 32,4_per_cent does it in Catalan. In relation to this, the objectives of this area are the better and better readership, the increase in reading indexes, especially in català. Therefore, more readers, more usual and, above all, in Catalan. The aim is to present, in April of 2023, a document containing the diagnosis of each of the areas of work proposed and the proposals for action agreed to in order to ease its objectives. Last week we gave the sort of exit to the board with the National Council of Reading, a very representative table of the sectors of culture and education, both public and private, that really made a lot of goig. With this team we're sure we'll make a big pocket. As you see, with everything I've explained to you, we're doing a lot of work for the language. As a summary, catalá is one of our departmental strategic axes, we continue to work in the national language pact, we strengthen linguistic policy vis-à-vis Catalan Countries, we reinforce audiovisual in catalá – let's remember it: four films and four series in original Catalan version – we insist and persist in taking advantage of TV3 folds for plataforms, and we are fully committed to Catalan sign language and Arabic. Lots of feta work; lots of iron work. But we are certainly pleased to be able to do so together with all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.5.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government about attacks on prison officials by internal authorities]] [[300-00213/13]] Let's move on to the 14th item on the agenda, the question to the government about attacks on prison officials from inside, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites for Progress presented. He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.6.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, Workers and Workers of Parliament... Counsellor, very good day, thank you for coming. Miri, today's not a happy day. I'm doing an inquiry today that I wouldn't want to do. Many times in politics we try to wear the opposite politically, with its weakened, misguided or inefficient management. But it's not all going, in politics; at least for our group, for the PSC. There are such important things that you can't do politics with them. And I know – and I always say this – that justice, a sense of doubt, is clearly one. So we have tried to do this throughout this legislature, making a responsible, serious and purposeful opposition, supporting everything that was right for this supreme and often intangible good, which is to impart justice between men and women. We consciously wanted to help Catalonia make practical application that a good opposition makes a good government. But today we have enough. We gave it on behalf of all the officials and prison officials, who are being screened, day and day, attacks on the prisons in Catalonia; attacks every day more violent and irrational, attacks that suffer in compliments of their functions, giving much more than their charge implies and that they do it by responsibility and by another term that I believe defines better than any other of our officials and employees: compromises. Does it seem normal that attacks have increased by a hundred_five_per_cent in the last five years, when the population of interns has dropped from 10,500 to 7,500? And everything – which also happens – after the approval of that circular 2/2021. I answer it myself: no, it's not absorbable, it's unbearable. And the patience of all of us is over. I don't want to hear any more company and company witnesses explaining to me that an intern or intern moved their necks, pulled a saying out of them, hit them with an iron plate or tried to sexually abuse it in a sink. I don't want to feel like prison health personnel are assaulted to simply do their job. That's right. I don't want to feel again that the respect of human rights to Catalan prisons is in doubt, and I want to feel it on the part of ultra-subsidized pseudoentities that claim to defend human rights to Catalan prisons, and all this with a complicit collaboration of the ancient heavyweight syndicate. However, it is not equipped with the tools, training, personnel, infrastructure, institutional respect necessary for the functions and functions of prisons to simply do its job. Why, you know what, she'll advise? That you know that you're gonna work and that you're gonna work in prison, you can't even take a minute off. They and they don't have that luxury, since the least you serve in a prison is almost as much as you do. Because they can't leave their place of work massively to defend their rights, because they know what that would mean for their own fellow prisoners. And I remind him of this principle that I gave him before: compromises. Yesterday he said, to parliamentary questions, that they are making a diagnosis of the motius. If you want, I can explain the reasons: eleven years of total and absolute lack of reversal in prisons. Do you know what the time was when more investment was made? Socialist governments. And you're new to the job – and we know it – but your party has been running Catalonia for some time, these last eleven years. I say some self-criticism should be done. Politics isn't always a shallow table where it starts from scratch, if well this government of Esquerra and Junts always talk like they've just arrived. And with a mental process worthy of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde speak in third person of the previous governments, as if you didn't. All the prison unions – all of them, all of them – showed up yesterday. There are no cracks, lefts or ideological or political intentions. Don't look for anything else out there. Yesterday there were only men and women tired, tired of being assaulted and not listening to them. Yesterday, counselor, there were only public servants asking for two things: respect and tools to be able to do his job with all the guarantees. Our group has almost visited the total number of prisons in Catalonia. We know reality and we don't... we don't even fall for easy criticism or unconscious euphoria. You don't think we're coming here to complain and not make proposals. To speak and speak without any kind of content has been a long time since we have lived in this Parliament for many groups of opposition, but also, unfortunately, of the government. The motion resulting in this inquiry will give, in a comprehensive manner, measures to end this unworthy situation of our functions and functions of prejubilation: rejoin the template to mitigate prejubilation; special modules for internals of great perilosity, separated from the DERT; apply exhaustively, without generating impunity, the rules of sanctions to internals that manquin to respect the functions and functions of prejubilations, in order not to feed this spiral of impunity; actively participate in intermediate commands and core staff with accredited experience in the regulatory departments enclosed in the design of policies and measures that affect them – there is no proof, that always from a depatx where decisions are made, obliving and departing from the urgent procedure of the prejubilation group to which the work of the internal group is performed; Moreover, an inescapable and immediate increase of the staff through opening the bag of interns, which is now sold out. And, advise, please, training, actual training of the staff involved before their incorporation; own facilities to give prison training; update of PAGs; rapid and agile coverage of temporary disabilities or reform of the protocol for the prevention of aggressions – because, in addition to dealing with the procedures of action, what we want is that it is, above all, with a preventive character–; a specialized service for internal psychiatric disorders. Mental salvation is a pandemic, a silent pandemic of our society, and let's arrest them as well clearly and perhaps with a little more concern. There are no means or personnel necessary for our prisons to be able to work on this reinsertion of this type of intern, and what is generated are dangerous situations for the intern and for the purpose you will work. These are some of the measures and many others that we will have the opportunity to explain to the resulting motion. Miri, Counselor, you have two options today. One is the easy one, but once in a while the wrong one. The other is the hard one, but the fence. The easy thing will be to go out to this cliff and make a reply saying that everything is fine, that it has no guilt or responsibility and avoid, no type of self-criticism exercises. The difficult thing is, as always, to be responsible, to recognize that they are not doing well, that they can do much more and that they have listened to the unions and the collection of men and women who work every day in our prisons. As I almost always do in my life, counselor, the easy way doesn't just have a good ending. Take the hard way today and it'll come all the way. If he takes this path, I don't feel that he'll have us at his side to overcome all the obstacles I'm aware that there may be to get to this tape we're offering him. That his success is the success of all of you working and working in prison and this spiral of rape and assault on our prisons is over. He'll advise, I encourage you to do so. He'll have us at his side, as always, because our prisons can't wait any longer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.7.0	Then, the word has the counselor of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.8.0	Very good morning, deputies and deputies. President, thank you. Miri, I have to start the inquiry, logically, first thank you, Mr Viñuales, who has brought the issue here to the plenary, because I already know that I like every opportunity you give us to talk about prisons. Prisons, I will never tire of saying that they are the great oblivions of the system; they are traditionally the great oblivions of political responsibility more openly so because it matters, therefore. They spoke yesterday, didn't they? , what could be done with the 1,400_million estimates of assumptions, and the schools, hospitals, and de... No one spoke of more than a few prisons. Therefore, my obligation is to put on the table the needs of the prison system. And, besides, I can tell you that we've done this since the minute zero, not even since the minute u. Because when we came to take on this responsibility that I have the honor of bearing today, we were quickly aware of what the reality of the prisons was. And like you, before you, logically, because it's our obligation, we visited them all and talked to everyone. We made a very clear idea of what the problem was, and it was twelve months ago and we've already taken a lot of challenges. It's like, we've been, we're and we'll be on the side of public servants, serving the entire prison community, because its success is the success of reinsertion, which is the last word that moves us. And the best of all knows what it is? That you're gonna work in prison, you know that, and you're aware of that. Dialog, mail, communications and agreements. And that's not what I'm saying here to the Faristol; I'm saying that, because from the team of the Secretary of Criminal Measures and the union representation of the prisoners we've gotten many files folded. Because if we don't fold, we won't get out of it. And these threads that we have managed to achieve are, for example, to put the circular in order, that without forgetting the object of zero content and of scrupulous respect for human rights, as the Committee on Prevention of Torture that we visited in Paris did not do weeks, now it gives clarity, it gives conciseness and it gives precision to the work that public servants have to do in cases of difficult prison conditions and when everything fails. I agree with the prejudices, that you asked me. And I remind him that you in Madrid voted against this. I hope you can work together now. He told me in his moment that you, therefore, would help me claim this fact with your representatives and homologs in Madrid. I hope you can go folds there and complain about it. Therefore, I count the sense of doubt to his help; not me, but the prison system. We have made an agreement with Salut; an agreement with Salut important, revised and which, moreover, takes into account the problems of mental health, with a special economic endowment, extra, to be able to face the challenges. That you have every reason: mental salvation is a pandemic. It's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out. It is not the prison system that is not our society; therefore, as plural and conflicting as our society can be. And also an agreement just made in the PRP, the famous salary supplement. But, in addition, an agreement that, thanks to the negotiation, we've managed to have more effect than you're going to work when you're better off at father's hours. Therefore, public servers have also been involved here, because they are always on the side of giving the best service. Training. You say training; I am the clairvoyant: operational training, because formats are not there. Operational training is what they do. And you asked me: "Listen, more training for people who are going to work at the prison camp. We're doing it. It's not going from the atrium to the duck anymore, as it is now. Now it's a few days of training. And, in fact, we are now making up one hundred and fifty professionals, of whom thirty-four are already at the heart of our prisons, in order to be able to give more effective and immediate answers when there is a problem, if there is a fire, if there is a problem of salvation, if there is simply a problem of conflict between people, because that is why we have the prison guidelines, the GAP, which you said, which we are constantly updating. Therefore, Mr Viñuales, every day of every day since the secretary is working in the best of our prison system. I want to thank the professionals of the Department of Criminal Measures, the public servants who work in the department, so they don't save hours in order to be able to respond to the reptes. We have been on the side of public servants after these horrific attacks; attacks that have no justification, attacks that we condemn and attacks that we work every day because they do not repeat. Because we don't want attacks at our prisons. I said that yesterday: we consider the prison system in Catalonia a structure of state and we want it to be model. Unlike the Spanish State, we have always wanted to assume responsibility with a clear reinsertive vocation. That's why it's justice. Therefore, it is our obligation as to primary responsibility to continue to deepen in the system for the benefit of reintegration. Many things are about to be done, because, obviously, it does not help to have some equipment which, as you well say – and I give it the reason, because I have also repeated it many times –, there is a lack of reversal and there is a lack of maintenance, it is true. I was already commenting on it yesterday, wasn't I? : We have increased the resources more than 3_million euros to be able to provide fireproof material – in this case, lençols..., forgiveness, killers and cushions–, so that there are no problems in the cells as a consequence of the virulence that is given in some prisoners who are extremely dangerous inside the cells, because they have an important state of alteration. And I remind you, as I'm sure you know, that one of the attacks occurred because it was a ventilation rex and with that rex it was manipulated and it was given a shot to a worker. This can no longer happen again, because we are making secure cells to prevent the content of these precisely being mismatched and turning against the internal and also public servers. We're already doing this. We already have this kind of cell and we're working on it. In addition to a multidisciplinary team that will analyze the person's pathology, give personalized responses, where there are qualitative, non-quantitative measures, that follow those that inform progressions or regressions of degree; not because you do three days or because you do one day and a half, it is possible or not able to progress or return. It will make a dress to the measure of each person according to their realities. Or intermediate units for violent high-complexity profiles. We are talking about interns who need greater control, greater supervision, in smaller groups and with a greater number of professionals. This is what we're working on, too. Above all, protocols to the DERT, to the special closed-regime departments; protocols to have, therefore, security actions in those internals of risk. And we are also preparing, as I said, those protected cells, which we will have in all centers. Therefore, the effort is constant and remarkable. We will design a space, or we are, in fact, designing a security space to ensure that interviews with the professionals of the centers are carried out with maximum security in the special closed-regime departments. And that's what we're working on. And one thing we haven't thought about, and very important, that today we have on the table, basic: the resize of the template. That's why he didn't tell me, and I want to talk to him; that's what we have on the table. We need to know exactly how many professionals we need at each penitentiary center and to do what it works; to assess who are the structural falls we have in the department, in the penitentiary service, and how we can do that we are redoubling the falls and that we can have more professional endowments in our prisons. And that's what we're doing; that's in collaboration with the public service. And there is already progress: the real challenge is that the next quarter will be meetings focused on giving support or giving response to a new challenge, which is this one of the resize of the template, just as it has been given response to the four previous challenges that I have mentioned. Therefore, I believe that no one can accuse me of attending or being passive or not loving and with a constant dialogue with the prison unions. I thank them for the work they're doing, because... you know why? This also helps us to visualize and that we are here today talking about this issue. All the themes that come to pressure need an effort of visibility – if it is to be through demonstrations, so let it be. Yesterday, in fact, I gathered a nice room with them after the plenary. Therefore, in this councillor you will always find your hand extended to the dial, throughout the department, because if we don't make the reforms together we won't get out. And they know one very important thing: that we are on the same boat; public servants and the department are on the same boat, because the object that moves us all is rehabilitation, reinsertion and giving out to the people taken. I don't know if they've seen that we have a special set of prisoners working in deforestation pockets. We are training these people because they have an operational training, so that they can have an office when they have completed their sentence, which in this case is about the management of the forests. And, besides, if the program is a success, because the person who is there, in Quim, is a person who is fully involved in implementing this program, doing his training, and that these people are, therefore, fit to do a job at the end of his prison life. This is our goal: to follow many more reinsertion programs. But if we don't have the public servers on the side, we won't get out. I repeat: thanks for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.9.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.10.0	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. I liked it, Counselor – I liked it. He chose, as if it were Matrix, the tablet that brings us to hard reality, but that is the only way to try to find solutions. I appreciate it – I appreciate it –, frankly, the way he wanted to implement it in his speech, because it's the only way – it's the only way – there's no other way. And, miri, of the prisoners – you're right – don't talk about it at all. There's a very usual practice, unfortunately, of criminal lawyers who, when you've done everything you can for the client and you're already in prison, don't forget, because you can't do more. There are also specialists in prison law – lawyers, etc. – and it is a trend. If it happens to your own lawyer who brought a person's defense, what can't happen to the administration? I'm offering you a deal today. Mr. Giró is the one with the rooms, isn't he? Looks like it. We can talk, if you like, about how we have to make a serious complaint about why we have to invest in justice. It's as important and as unknown as social pau – social pau. Listen, I'm offering you a deal today. I thank you for everything; I am convinced that you will work and press functions will thank you for everything. And, above all, what we must thank him for is that this is a reality, because it will be a benefit not only for us, but for all of our Catalan society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.11.0	And then there's the word "counsel" in the replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.12.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Viñuales. I am enthusiastically pushing back this agreement, this pact. We can work together on a coherent proposal, a proposal that can give economic response to these needs, which is realistic, that we don't blow up pigeons, because then we can't, we would create false expectations, right? In any case, I am convinced that this work with this alliance will yield good results. I'm sure the counselor turned, so he'll see this reality; in fact, they're seeing that this issue of prisoners is of interest, that matters. And I can only thank you again for the intervention and collaborate with you, all the groups in the chamber who want it and, obviously, also with the unions, with the public servers, to keep the best of the prison systems possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.13.0	Let's move on to the seven-point order of the day, the motion following the Government's inquiry into digital policies, which was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into digital policies]] [[302-00177/13]] And he has the word, to expose it, the deputy Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.14.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, to present the digital policy motion following the inquiry we made to the Vice-President. Well, we've presented a motion with fifteen points; we could do more, but I think the point here was to reflect on what happened in the past few years and, above all, not so much..., to make a proposal for more extensive to see in which elements we can agree. Because I think that as a country we have a lot of luck and we have a problem, to sum it up. We have a fate, which is that nobody discusses the importance of digitalization, the importance of technological infrastructure to the world and our country, in order to ensure an economic and social progress. The great change of the last hundred years, or of this century or of the..., let's say it as usual; the great change, therefore, is this digital technological revolution that is present in the life of all folds and in life, obviously..., and in the economy. But we have a problem, and it's hard to get this network, this technological infrastructure, in a fair way, regardless of money or family, social income, or regardless of the territory where it's located – I think that's the secret. How important it is to debate the ups and downs, huh? , to hold debates in Parliament so as to talk about this important digital revolution. We have said that we are concerned about the low degree of implementation of the Open Party of Catalonia in small towns and areas, which is vital, of vital importance. As we also said: "It is very important to create occupation, to fix population, to create wealth, to increase productivity, the importance of counting with fiber. But, on the other hand, those places where, unfortunately, this fiber or 5G coverage is not coming, we see how this can precisely condemn this..., fix population to the territory or this creation of wealth. Of the fifteen proposals that we have put forward, we ask from updating the digital agenda, which, as you know, 2020 has already lost its vigor..., so try to make this reflection and update it with the many things that have gone on in the past few years, as we also see how we carry optical fiber and 5G coverage of the territories, the trades, the fields, the ski slopes, the small towns, and see, in those small towns that will not be able to carry optical fiber because you have not felt it, we saw what technologies we use to guarantee also the internet, as was done, for example, in the pilot test that we have already said to the Valley of Aran and that we also propose here to give coverage to areas that are covered through satellite. As I said, there are also some explanations and a reflection of the future of what we are doing with these corporate contracts that fall apart. One hundred and forty million euros with the management contracts of the towers, of the connectivity of ours..., of yours of the Generality and, therefore, a lot of money to make a review to see how we also take advantage of it to ensure this connectivity. I also need to see what's going on with the congresses. The vice president – that greeting, vice president, good morning –..., that we said that we are happy with how these arrangements go. This is the line of collaboration with the different public administrations, but we can't get over what we already have. Lleida's Diputation, to give an example that I know very well, carries three years with 30_million euros assumed; executed, zero. God, God and God; zero, zero, zero. So, the deal with the Generalitat is a lot of paper. As much as you pass along the coast of Espot, if then the House doesn't do its job, then, then, then, it doesn't happen. I also think it is very important, Vice President, Members, Members, that we have a database, a map of covers. It is good that we draw from the ministry's databases, but we believe that the Generality should also have an accurate database so that we know exactly where the incidences are, what kind of coverage. Because sometimes there are blankets, but they are deficient, or sometimes there are blankets, but there is no effective competition because one cannot even sort operators. So, here's what we have to go with and what we have to go with. As I also think it would be important..., when the mayors, private businesses, locals, trick us to say "listen, here I have issues of coverage, of connection with the company, so I think we should also have an open channel on this line. In short, Members, Members, a thanks to the Groups of Junts and Esquerra for the papers presented. And in the negotiations we have accepted..., of the six items we have not accepted five, we have not traded one. I think they're on the line to try to contribute – contribute. Miracles will not do that, but it is true that the economic and social progress of the territory, society and the economic sectors of the country will come, to a large extent, conditioned by the fact that we are able to bring the fiber and coverage to industrial poles and runaways of the territory. Many thanks, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.15.0	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Salvador Vergés, has the word in the defence of the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.16.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, the Socialist Group presents a motion on the deployment of digital infrastructure, and Junts for Catalonia – and the Vice-President is not, to be sure, the most exponent – many years ago we have made clear the importance of digitizing the different levels of society. And the first step is connectivity. And we already have 344 connected municipalities, that's 6.9 million inhabitants, the eighty-eight per cent of the population. It is 4,200_kilometres of underground line and practically 98_million euros of inversion. In fact, the DESI index, the Digital Economy and Society Index, lies between the four, five countries with better connectivity in Europe. And this should be accompanied by training measures against digital brettxa. And that's what we're doing these days with the vice president and his team, meeting with people from the rural world and the agricultural world. You, Mr. Ordeig, in the original motion ask us..., they asked us to get the optical fiber to all the municipalities in 2023. You, the populisms who when they see caught, eliminate the tariffs, but not the damage of our trains. So not us. We are to treat the citizens as adults and explain to them what we can actually do with the minvat resources for the Spanish sport that we skate. And then do it, complete. And, in this sense, the timing of the department is very clear, it's done with realism, with responsibility, and what you say is, first, connecting with optical fiber all the capitals of the region. This is done, except at the Bridge of Suert, which is his fault and then I will refer to it. And in this legislature reach all those municipalities that, at least, have a habitat nucleus of more than fifty inhabitants. And from here, connect any habitat cores and any mass, as small as possible, as far as possible, and with the technology that we can deploy; if it is necessary, via antenna– and, in fact, they are already connecting much when we come from step –, or by test with satellite·lit, eh? Look, we have a country with a hundred miles of public rural roads, and the vast majority of them take somewhere where they saw someone. And, in change, the AP-7, at its own pace for Catalonia, measures only 350 kilometers. I think it is a very explanatory comparative data of the country we have and that we intend, therefore, to connect and digitalize. And obviously, we'll have to, so, and we're doing it, with a system, with a public-private model that's working, and it's working really well. And in the same line, you ask to secure the new generation internet and 5G coverage. Again, we promote, we don't guarantee, so we won't fool anyone, or so, we don't have any skills or resources as we continue to be part of the Spanish State. I really think they're very cynical in this sense, and I know they offend me when I tell them they're the Eastern PSOE. In fact, in order to get 5G coverage across the country, we take into account the fact that fiber has to reach any of the corresponding antennas. And, on the other hand, where you could give us a hand, and I'm talking about the regions of Upper Ribagorça, Upper Urgell and Cerdanya, we need state authorization to act on the wrong-named "nationals" – national 230, national 260 –, you're adding up. I want to think that they're not playing with waiting for more municipal elections to come together and, then, yes, unhook it and be able to pin the medal. In contrast, collaboration with the members is working effectively to extend the fiber. You said, in Lleida's case, there were certain technical problems, but they are facing the basis, so the Generalitat goes ahead and executes the work, and then we'll make up for it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of the fourteen points of the final motion, among which, as you have already said, a channel to be able to consult the lack of coverage, a six-monthly report to the Digital Policy Commission, or to promote scientific collaboration between research groups, universities and businesses. And, finally, and even though the young lady, so, I'm not, I want to emphasize that this year the first subsea cable will arrive in Catalonia, an authentic summer structure that will allow us to connect directly with the rest of the world. And this is one more step in the creation and construction of our Catalan digital republic. And, yes, I know, in the analog era it was much easier to keep us under control. Is that so? So vagrantly prepare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.17.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.18.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Vice President, when the pandemic broke out, we saw how our lives were digitized much faster than what was already happening, in all spheres and in all channels, and it was the essential tool to be able to relate socially, professionally. At that time, we were able to appreciate basically the importance of having a country digitized in all and each of its spheres. Now, don't mix digitization with digital transformation. If it's true that in the next three years we've seen its importance, it's also true that we need to keep rethinking and promoting new technologies to ensure that all of you serve the entire population. It's all right with good tech infrastructure and a good network. And it's just like that. I'm trying to explain myself. We're not just talking about having good Internet access. Let's not banalize it. We're talking about hospitals with the best of them to ensure the best of health. We're talking about an education adapted to the 21st century that I didn't leave a student behind. We are talking about the best social services applied with the greatest efficiency and effectiveness. We're talking about entrepreneurs who can deploy their full potential and generate quality jobs for the better-formed generations of the last decades. We're talking about moving forward in the climate change fight and transforming the entire production system so it's, in short, much more ecological. We are talking about being able to quickly, effectively and unequivocally transform all the public services of the country and increase the quality of life throughout its territory. In short, we are talking about access to technologies as a right for everyone. Because, ladies and gentlemen, technological transformation must become synonymous with territorial balance, not digital brettxa, because, if not, we would be talking about territorial, social and labour injustice. We must be able to have a country where it is as easy to take Mollerussa as it is at Llobregat Hospital. I'm taking advantage of it. To continue having examples of success, I intend... let me rub it all over the house. The year 2017, a Mollerussa app company, Reskyt, received the award for the best Spanish app creation agency. The fold for the second year as a result. Therefore, of talent, of voluntarity, we have all the territories. We just need to continue to empower, transform, improve the base, to cause them to follow up on examples of success throughout the territory. So we are working on the land of agreements in this area to collect the fruits of a country that generates wealth, equity and innovation because all the territories have the best digital tools and because, in the end, we collect the best of the fruits. If we do this, I'm sure we'll see a lot faster results than we think. And all this is done with the humble will to end up having a republic that basically had five foundational pillars: digital infrastructure to improve the efficiency of services and competitiveness; technology transfer to the service of the enterprise, enterprise and social innovation; ICTs, as a cross-cutting tool of social, economic and collaborative transformation to the abst of everyone. Country, cities and towns, in short, intelligent. We want a republic that continues to be concerned with the world in the development of innovation, both technological and social, which allows us to increase the empowerment of citizens and their quality of life and improve the competitiveness of our businesses, especially by promoting the quality of services and the efficiency of public administration, a model that places the city at the centre of innovation. Because we have talent, we have skills and we have knowledge. Now we just need to equip the entire territory with the necessary tools. To thank, in this case, the good predisposition of the Socialist Party group to accept our ideas and urge it to work together to try to deploy as much as possible the tools we need to get the whole territory, in the end, the innovation of digital policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.19.0	So after the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.20.0	Well, good morning, Madam President. Vice-President, deputies... I think we all agree on the growing importance of the need to access the Internet in our lives. Therefore, a motion that basically talks about improving Internet access for citizens and businesses must necessarily have the support of the VOX Parliamentary Group. Of the fifteen proposals, there are some that we like best; others, therefore, that are merely an expression of desire, without concrete practical content; others that we like less; but, in general, I must say that we are going to support these proposals. Still, we want to emphasize three aspects. Firstly, to strive to ensure that all citizens of Catalonia have the opportunity to access the digital world with a good quality of service, regardless of where they live. Few investments, in fact, seem to us to be more useful than this. We believe that it is essential, and we have been defending it whenever we can, that Catalan citizens living in rural areas have the same opportunities as those living in urban areas. And in this lively access to the digital world is essential for the ordinary management of the private life of citizens, as well as those related to the business world. A great deal of effort must be made to support people and companies who have decided to live or carry out their professional or business activities in rural areas, especially in those mountainous areas that are also more difficult to access, with productive investments, whether public or private. We are pleased that the Government of the Generality of Catalonia does not apply to itself what the State demands every day: that investments be territorialized and made in proportion to its GDP or to the taxes paid by citizens of each area or territory. If they applied this absurd theory to themselves, the digital media would not reach large areas of Catalonia. Secondly, direct investment to the productive economy. We are tired of announcing every day how the Generalitat of Catalonia squanders at full hands the money of all Catalans: chiringuitos that have no use or that perform the same functions that the State has already performed; dissemination of their separatist ideas trying to keep alive the corpse of the process; millions dedicated to the media, public or private, to separatist advertising. Instead of wasting money, it must be committed to ensuring that all professionals or companies producing wealth have equal access to the digital world. Especially important is the case of industrial polygons in poor situations. And, third, the request to the Government of the Generalitat to provide Parliament with information on the evolution of various aspects related to digital deployment. We believe that this information needs to be made public so that citizens can assess the outcome of their policies. For our part, simply reiterate once again the importance of deploying the necessary infrastructures so that all citizens, professionals and companies in Catalonia, regardless of where they live or operate, can have access to digital communications and a good internet service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.21.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of the deputy Ms Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.22.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. To show the position of the UPC in relation to this motion for a resolution presented for the Socialist Party. For what you do at the first point, see the importance of digital infrastructures, right? And that what it is that this process of digital transformation, therefore, reaches our society and the economy and all the communities and peoples. We share this layout, from the entrance. For what it does in the second place, to draw up and approve the new digital agenda of 2025 in order to review and update the digital transformation strategy of society and the economy, we must say that we understand that on the digital agenda we need to focus more on the areas of teaching, in the areas of digital choice. What's important is to establish a standard framework that protects the rights of the great people, right? , that people can decide whether they want to be treated digitally or face-to-face, depending on each person's abilities. I, too, need to put more emphasis on this digital agenda on the subject of the open government and put the vision of the general public there. For what he does at the time of the review of the terms of the planning so as to bring the optical fiber before the end of this legislature to all the municipalities of Catalonia that as at least there is a habitat core of more than fifty inhabitants, to us seems to be a point, a very ambitious object, but if they see that it can be fulfilled, then very well. What is true, that we see very essential that it is ensured that this network deployed remains joint and neutral – that you do not say anything, you, at this point – to avoid monopolies in infrastructure and that it is more sustainable to avoid duplication. You're such a paradox, aren't you? , which is talking about the network as an element of creuament, of a lot of people interrelated, but, at the same time, to practice, many times all this is converted into monopolies. For what it does to review and improve the deployment strategy of the optical fiber of the Open Range of Catalonia, we agree, whenever the points are made in the terms we have said before. At the promotion of the new generation internet arrival and 5G opening, here we don't have much to say either. Just saying that the NGA concept is a definition, it's not a new technology. For what makes to study the possibility to extend to all Catalonia the pilot proof that has begun the General Council of the Aran and the operator Hispasat to get the Internet by satellite to the surrounding areas, we must remember that Hispasat is presided over by Jordi Hereu, high-ranking socialist, and to us..., we wear a year of the Commission of Territories and Digital Policies, and we believe that we have lost the opportunity, right? , that in the framework of this committee there has been a little more discussion on digital policy issues. Because, for example, it costs us a lot to say about what you are voting for, because we don't know who this pilot test is and how far this pilot test has gone. And for us, it is a shame that there has not been a job done by the Committee of Territories before bringing this point to the vote of the plenary. For what he does to the other points of the young lady, so we share them, right? , is to review and update the arrangements between the Generality and the provincial parliaments to ensure the compliment and deployment of the optical fiber network – we agree –; to promote an up-to-date and detailed database of optical fiber coverage – in this we would also agree – ; to present to the Territorial Policy Commission every six months a report – whenever it continues to report to the Digital Policy and Territorial Policy Commission we also agree. Also, you ask to create a channel and a procedure to resolve complaints, problems and doubts about the lack of optical fiber coverage and mobile phone coverage. We also agree. In any case, we would like to know that it is not just people who are consumers, is it not? , which is, a little, the idea that reflects this point. People do not only have the consumer condition, but also have the condition of active subjects in the participation and in the configuration of policies. Therefore, we do not only need to be used to make complaints, but also to participate directly and effectively in the configuration of these digital policies. And, in general, therefore, it seems to us a young man who shares certain points. And it is true that it has a lot of emphasis on promoting this effective competence of private operators, which for us is not a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.23.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, it is now the turn of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.24.0	Thank you, President. Good day, deputies, deputies, vice president. Well, the Socialist Party presents us with a motion on digital policies, a motion that is extensive, that is concrete and that focuses on a key issue, that is access and distribution of optical fiber and 5G mobile coverage. In the first place, therefore, we would like to thank the honourable Member for the motion, because we understand that it is relevant, that it is relevant and that, moreover, concrete with proposals that allow us to move forward in this line and, therefore, we appreciate it. The Internet isn't a new tool to do the same thing we did. The Internet isn't really a hammer to do things that we've already done in a different way, but the Internet is a new paradigm that changes our ways of relating, changes our processes, changes the production processes, changes the political processes, because above all, the Internet allows us to act without intermediaries and, therefore, those intermediaries that were previously needed, from the travel agencies, but also the political parties, are transformed. And, therefore, from travelling to political participation is produced from other forms through the Internet. The Internet, moreover, is not neutral, it is not neutral from the point of view of the contents, it is not politically neutral; the Internet is what we regulated yesterday from the VTCs, but the Internet is also the Viquipedia, which has had the ability to end up with an institution as important as the British Encyclopedia. And internet access isn't neutral either. I say all this, because in the end, if we understand the Internet not as one more thing, but as a common good, as a public good, as a service that is basic, as water, as energy, as housing or as food, we must be able to guarantee access to the Internet to all people, to all the territories, from this perspective. Because, if not, what we're generating are huge inequalities of opportunity at the territorial level, and we understand that this is exactly what we need to avoid. From this point of view, what we see in this place, we understand, therefore, is a whole series of measures to ensure access to the Internet in the context of the territory, at a time when we understand that it is a moment of opportunity; it is to say, in a post-pandemic situation in which we have also changed our forms of movement, of working, it is the key moment, precisely, to ensure that you can live there where you live in the territory, because also, among other things, what allows us to change the teletreball and the use of the internet are the space-time relationships and that, so far, we can live in certain areas of the territory, developing certain work tasks, without the obligation to move and to do so. Because the internet also changes us or it's an opportunity to change the uses of time. And here's another line of work on the politics of time and the politics of how we use the internet and the digital dimension in all of this. In this case, as I said, there is a series of proposals that we fully share, although some of us find them lacking in this political vision, in the end, of how we guarantee access to the Internet for everyone, as we promote certain models of internet usage and digital placards and not others – therefore, it is not a neutral issue, this – as we guarantee that it is not in the hands of certain private operators that some territories may or may not have mobile or 5G telephone coverage. But in any case, we understand that the proposals that are being made here are significant and relevant, also adapted to the territorial realities and, therefore, also proposing different technological formulas, not only from optical fiber, which has the physical element of reaching up to different points of the territory, but also there where to explore and develop new technologies and the use of satellite to reach all points of the country; also for an obvious economic development issue. And then I also wanted to highlight, in the end, some elements of this motion that we understand to be relevant, such as the proposal to create an up-to-date and detailed database of optical fiber coverage and 5G to all population clusters in the country. We need to know where up and not up the Internet, mobile phone, 5G, five operators, five no. Therefore, we need to have a clear map of which is the situation of the whole country in order to transform it and to improve it. We also seem interested in the channel and procedure to resolve complaints, problems or doubts about the lack of air coverage in the country. And also – and I finish – everything you have to do with the development of research also in our home, to be able to develop new technologies and to ensure that in the end this access to the internet, which is a common good, is guaranteed to everyone in the country and for all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.25.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.26.0	President, Members, Members, Vice-President, first of all, thank the PSC for bringing us this motion on the deployment or, in fact, on digital policies, which I believe is a subject that has not been touched very much and which, moreover, I know very much about. For fifteen years I have devoted myself, precisely, as a cartographer and as a geographer, in a telecommunications company, to working in the deployment of the optical fiber network in Catalonia. Therefore, I know very well, at least, the situation in which he finds himself, or who has found himself, and his evolution. Therefore, I think that a good part of what I listened to in the inquiry, at least on the part of the Socialist Group's questions, are certainly some of the Vice-President's statements; they are, of course, but I have to say and I have to start by saying that coverage and access to optical fiber in Catalonia is still precarious – it is precarious. And it's especially in some territories. In the end, the deployment that was made and that the vice president was talking about being radial because it was truncated, because it followed a series of lives, not... This strategy was not invented by the vice president, because it is a strategy that the great operators implemented in Catalonia. Basically, because we have an autonomous community that is radial, because we have at the center of this metropolitan area, which is where you access commercially, or access or access commercially large operators. When we talk about territorial balance, many times we talk about infrastructure of all kinds. It's about road infrastructure, railways, it's also about service to the territory, but a good part of these services will not work or not work without a connection, without a direct connection to the network. And these digital infrastructures are, from our point of view, essential for us to function and for us to have an appropriate development objective in Catalonia. And here it plays, I think an important part as the operator, at least complement the operators, the Open Party of Catalonia, which we believe is not, for now is not doing its job. It is not doing so, because for us what should be done by this initiative of Xarxa Oberta would complement what the operators, great operators in Catalonia, do not do, which is to cover the dark areas of coverage or access to optical fiber in many parts of the territory. This is also what happens with 4G and 5G coverage in the territory, where coverage does not go up to sixty_per_cent– that's right– and it needs, or at least for us, a better, above all, of its quality and of a subject that has not been discussed and that also appears or finds in the DESI, separate from the European Commission's report, which are the prices. There has been no talk of prices here, but we do have – and that is true – that Spain is one of the countries with the highest service prices in all of Europe. And, obviously, this assumes that these prices are also very high in Catalonia. Therefore, we may have more or less access to the territory, but with prices that are not, in fact, competitive with the rest of the European Union's countries. Therefore, I believe that we must also take into account this reality as it exposes us. Because, in the end, the DESI that tells us basically is that Spain, for example, is in the European media as far as optical fiber is concerned, but it can improve as far as 4G and 5G coverage is concerned. In short, we, because at the end of this topic we could be much longer talking about it, we share a good part of what the PSC has presented to us. We share the objectives of deployment with concrete dates; we share the need to rethink the strategies to be followed for the deployment, as I said, of the Open Party of Catalonia, because it focuses its work on the objectives of working in the territory where the operators do not arrive; we share the need to enrich the collaboration of administrations and the private world of different backgrounds, from operators to search centers, universities and also everything that has to do with research and innovation, and we believe – to end – that we have a historical opportunity, which is investing in digital infrastructures to accompany the Next Generation. Neither have they been discussed here, but I think they are important. We must accompany them with appropriate proposals and approaches, because, for us, priority in digital policies is to generate opportunities for Catalans and to approach us every time more. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.27.0	Thank you very much. Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.28.0	Very quickly, President, because already – Vice President, Members, Members... – I have spoken before. Well, thank you for all the thoughts of Members, Members. Now I'm coming to the head..., I pointed it out here as Congresswoman Vinyets spoke: thanks for the coincidences and thanks for the discrepancies, because, more than that, I think that practically all the points of the young man. One finally rejoices that he's talking about what he's up to, isn't he? And that's all you don't see clearly. She's curious, the surprise. The rest of the groups also, obviously, a thank you. I won't run out or... Well, I will run out, because it's two minutes, but... Deputy Vergés – there it is – I'm the one who's left with money. I'm just, uh... I'm just, uh... I'm just, uh... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm just... I'm Say, hasty, "Cinism, cheap populism, then tell us to vote in favour of almost all points. I say, "Aviam, one thing and the other I think it can't be. It's either cynicism and populism or they vote for us, and so we agree, right? I don't know if that's a matter that needs to be clarified, whose band they're on, whether to make a serious debate or to make these strides. In any case, I've come here... I've tried, we've tried to make a serious, rigorous and well-built debate; I believe that to the inquiry and the motion. And you come here with cheap politics, which is one of the great evils of our society and our moments, with less and less contempt. You need to know if this is part of a strategy – I understand that it is – and therefore to do everything to justify some things or to divert attention from others. In any case, our offer was the day of the inquiry and it's on this point of making a constructive debate. The country, Catalonia, Catalans and Catalans need people who are so moderate, so focused and can make speeches and debates that represent the majority of Catalans. I think you need to think about whether what you said here today goes into this line or precisely goes into the counter, that every day you are more radicalized and needing the companies or the discrepancies or differences of opinion that exist in this hemisphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.29.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this middle, once we substantiate the number 20 point of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran]] [[302-00179/13]] Let's pass number 17, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, and to expose it has the word of Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.30.0	Thank you, President. Well, our parliamentary group brings another motion in which we want to focus on a concept that we have been introducing to the length of time, which is that of territorial equity; it is to say, that, viscous in viscous of the country, you must be able to have access not only to the same levels of service, but also to the same levels of income. I have focused, in this case, on a specific territory, which is the eve of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. Obviously, in the market too, therefore, of the debates that we have had in the political reality of the last months, linked also to the proposal of Olympic winter games. The young lady has four large blocks. In the first we focus on new events or what we know again about this project, which is the Olympic Winter Games, which is clearly..., what we know is that the 2030 candidacy has already failed. And, therefore, what we ask of the chamber is that we do not continue, that the government does not continue anchored in the great projects like this and that, therefore, I renounced a candidacy for the year 2034 or the propers. Because I don't know how many more evidences you need that climate is real, that we're 40 degrees out here, that you're cremating the country, and that we're not gonna have a baby by the year 2034. Therefore, I already look at the reality that we have here outside this hemisphere, remain realistic and plant real strategies of territorial and economic development for a lifetime like the High Pyrenees and the Aran. We also ask you, in this first block, to provide us with all the information about how much this failed Winter Olympic game project has cost us. That said, the Member has three more blocks, in which we try to make proposals, debate, and give thanks to all the Members and to the groups that have submitted papers and to what we have been able to deal with and agree on many of these points. Which, therefore, meant that we put forward concrete proposals for development for this eve of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. The first of the proposed blocks has to do with the territorial governance of the High Pyrenees and the Aran. And here what we believe is that we need to deploy already, once and for all, the conjunction of the territorial services of the Generality on this occasion, because we don't understand why those who started to deploy are withdrawn and how it is that parts of the country have a very large deployment of the Government and this... because in the end, it is always the same territories that end up feeling damaged and for which it ended up betting less. Also, from the point of view of the financing, we believe that we can review the financing of the General Council of the Aran, reverse the detail that was produced in the year 2012 and, therefore, have sufficient resources for the territorial reality that we recognize as distinct, with a relationship of bilaterality, that is that of the Aran. A second block, therefore, in which we focus on one of the most obvious problems of this territory, as in many others, but which is that of access to housing and which, therefore, set up a series of proposals aimed at ensuring access to housing in territories that have been touristic and that see the problem of second and third residences, which limit access because they increase the price of housing, which is now clearly inaccessible; also from a perspective of rehabilitation, energy efficiency, making a hundred empty habitats, also limiting and regulating the touristic uses of housing in these areas. A third purpose block in which we talk about connectivity, both physical and digital. And here is a clear bet, a clear claim for the line of the Segur people's train, the line Lleida - Balaguer - Tremp - La Pobla, where we believe that we can review the timetables; it is evidence that we can adjust the timetables to the needs of the people, that the people of the Pobla can arrive to Lleida at an hour that is reasonable to go to the doctor, to study; that the train of the Pobla connects with the other railway services of Lleida cap to Barcelona, which is now very difficult. Therefore, a schedule adjustment, which is not worth money. But we also believe that the investments needed to increase the frequency of this line and also to prioritize what we have already agreed with the government in the guild assumptions and that we want it to begin to develop in the proper years in an executive way, which is the train of the Pyrenees, the connection Andorra - the Seu - Alp. Therefore, we believe that this is a priority of infrastructure that should be clearly placed on the table. And, lastly, a last block, in which we talk about all the economic development questions of the territories of the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran, with a clear bet for diversification, with a clear bet for diversification in the tourism sector. Not only..., do not make only the tourism of the snow, but many other mountain activities that can end up in these territories. And, therefore, for all that is the industrialization of this territory and the bet or profit of the potential that we have in this territory, also from the point of view of the primary sector. In short, a whole series of proposals that we hope will be able to debate, which are useful in order to be able to advance in new forms of territorial development to the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.31.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the honourable Member, Sílvia Romero, has the first word in the defence of the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.32.0	Thank you, President. The future of the Pyrenees. We have before us a motion from In Comú Pomera that speaks to us, a priori, about the future of the Pirinaeus. It is always possible to raise the specific and internally different problems of the Pyrenees. It is always good to put on the table the development of mountain policies and to talk about what should be the role of public administrations in this territory. Now, what does not seem relevant to us is that the measures proposed for the Pyrenees are encapsulated by the demand for the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games and for the waiver of future candidatures. As we would say colloquially, I saw it lauded. We believe that they do not make a strict settlement of the policies of montanya, another time they use the needs of the Pyrenees as an excuse. They already did it at the fever with motion 76. They did exactly the same thing. And we've already asked them to unlink the Olympic Winter Games from the Pirinian problem. Winter Olympic games are an elusive opportunity for the Pyrenees. I'm still feeling it. And they are an opportunity for active participation in the Pyrenean territories. I'm still feeling it. Despite this, the motion presents some proposals with different levels of achievement. Because if we are talking about the future of the Pyrenees, we have found that there is no need for the House to address important issues to which the honourable Member referred in this intervention and which are not: there are no proposals or elements of strengthening public services; there are no proposals or policies of compensatory and positive discrimination. If we look at the proposals they make, we have to tell them we're missing a lot of work. When they talk about governance, for example, that they propose to reopen the delegations of the Generality and improve the financing of the Aran, we have suggested in the sense that the Aran needs to be transferred the necessary economic endowments in order to be able to develop its skills and functions. They do not foresee, for example, in matters of governance, that it would encourage cooperation and understanding between the administrations that already exist in the territory, therefore, in order to improve their own governance. And they do not foresee any effort in administrative infrastructure and a better financing for the municipality of montanya, small in population, but very large in extension. When they talk about mobility, for example, they don't do anything about the road network – no – on reels and on paths. Of the papers that we have presented from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, we appreciate the will of the MEP and also of the other leading groups. And we want to highlight those that make reference to habitat. When they talk about deploying a specific social housing plan to the Upper Pyrenees and Aran, our group believes that it would encourage the social use of housing, also limiting its tourist uses, especially in the most tense areas. This is a demand from many mayors. It also generally promotes the rehabilitation of habitats, not only focused on energy efficiency, but also, obviously, plug it in. And for what it does to economic development, we have focused on the primary sector. It is common to say that the economy of the Pyrenees must be diversified, complex and more complex. It is clear that the primary sector and the tourist sector should establish major links and link better these sectors. But above all, it is necessary to facilitate access to the resources of the territory, to facilitate access to the land, to recover sectors in disuse, to reconcile agricultural and environmental uses in natural areas– they think that fifty per cent of the territory of the Alt Pirineu is under figures of environmental protection–, to fight against the abandonment of land, especially accentuated in this area, recovering ramader uses, compensating the ramaders for the damage caused by wildlife. It is essential, therefore, to facilitate access to the sources of development that exist in the mountains and to do so accurately and from the proximity, respecting and acting on the specific characteristics. Deputy Gallego has started a poetic tradition in this Faristol. So the goats are invited. In the words of Verdaguer, the final verse of Canigo : « They will not whiten the high Pirinaeus. We work on rigorous proposals to bind, to add whites, to preserve this huge and strong tree that is the Pirinaeus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.33.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word, then, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.34.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, when governments do not act in favor of life, the life that organizes and fights them passes them over. This is what happened with the Pirineus project, a project that came as a solution to all the structural problems that the Pirineus is experiencing, and now they claim, as if they had not passed the king, to pass the page and start a participatory process for a strategic assumption of the Pirineus. And let me make it clear: there was no plan for the future for these communities. It's not there. The campaign of mobilizations against the Olympic games went through three argumental axes: the socioeconomic model, the climate emergency and the lack of transparency. For this reason, it has been very certain that the young man begins just by making it clear that he is renouncing the disbandment of the games and that the accountability is claimed. We've already asked the councilwoman, months ago, how much money had been spent on the advertising spot and the entire campaign for the game, with all the concepts related to the candidacy. There's no way they'll answer us. That's why we're voting for these two points. And we appreciate the ease of the transaction, with presentations that make them go a little further. Before we go on with the rest of the points, which I am warning and advance that there will be no time, I would like to give a general view of the motion in conjunction and of how some points that have been negotiated with the Government have just been discussed in order to ensure that they are approved. The government has come to claim our candidacy, and you in general in this Parliament, as the « no candidacy, when in reality we are the yes one: yes to life, to its support, to the rights of the most abused majority for a system that only favors the elites. Yes to another model of country; to another model of country that places in the first term the people of the Pyrenees, that places the thematic park of the oci metropolity and consolidates structures that can fix the people to the territory. "The land, to appear, as Alide Sans says, and not only to appear, but also to develop economically in many projects, with appreciable habitat, with work and underworthy, with services and opportunities for young people. And, as we are from yes to the Pyrenees, it exasperates us – and let me 'hoddle in this way' – with some proposals that have already been presented to the House and which, even though they were well improved with the ideas, end up in terms of when they are negotiating with the Government because the votes, as if the situation in the Pyrenees were not of an authentic emergence, as if we did not want to activate measures intensively. Only some very relevant data: the average annual income of Pirinaeus is the lowest in the Principality, almost being half–8,260_euros, women; 8,467, men. And it is an indirectly proportional relationship if we compare it with the hotel spaces, for every thousand inhabitants, available to the Pyrenees, that multiply by seven the middle of Catalonia, that not, for example, the Pallars Sobirá, that multiply by twenty-one. Or GDP. The Alt Pirineu and the Aran is the vegueria that has a major dependence on the tourism sector– 22,5_per_cent of GDP –, arriving some comarques to quadruple the middle of the Principality : that of Ribagorça, a thirty-sis_per_cent; the Val d'Aran, a thirty-four_per_cent, and the Pallars Sobirá, a thirty-three_per_cent of GDP. How can they continue to defend that investing in tourism is an economic opportunity for the people of the Pyrenees? If with this reversal we already have now..., and, fix, with the last productive investments of this Government, of the last assumptions, the Generality has invested a noranta_per_cent in tourism– of which a hundred_per_cent are for the ski slopes–, a four_per_cent in agriculture and a six_per_cent in telecommunications. And the salaries of the people of the Pyrenees are half, in the middle, that of the Principality. It is a clear demonstration that this option is not valid. There have been proposals, plus – and I think it's a mockery for the people of the Pyrenees – that they're identical to what we approved of the young man a year ago. This means that nothing has developed at all, and therefore not just proposals for territorialization – and I end, President – that they do with the territorial services will not stop the problems of the day-to-day Pyrenees. What are real policies, planning small and medium-scale economy, making investments and taking'seriously the Pirinaeus, the Pirinaeus saw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.35.0	On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, it is now the return of Mr Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.36.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, let me first of all welcome the Director General of Policies of Muntanya, Mr Fierro, who is with us today and who is working hard and is working very well to give answer to all these problems that arise in this young man. This young man is a desire for proposals for the Pyrenees, but we have found that we need to seek precisely the consent of the Pyrenees, and we want to listen to the people of the Pyrenees. That said, I want to thank the good will of the Member of Parliament to comment on all these points and to try to improve or make possible proposals with the papers and with the transactions agreed, which have been many, eh? Now, when we don't agree – it's obvious – it's with the Olympic games. They present again an attempt to close the door to this opportunity for the Pyrenees. And today this Parliament, if I'm not mistaken, will give back support to the Olympic Games Pirineu-Barcelona. In fact, the three Pyrenean MPs that we will be talking about – the Romero MP has already done – we will defend the Olympic games, and so we will demonstrate. Olympic games can be the accelerator or catalyst of reforms and best in all areas that the Pyrenees needs. We are well prepared to achieve them without any new sports infrastructure, and, for example, they can accelerate the housing construction we need for our young man, and with the Olympic games we would surely have more resources to do so before. But above all, let me make up my mind at the pyrenecs and pyrenecs. It is we who most esteem the Pyrenees, the most interested in preserving it, improving it, having the best public service of quality and having the best opportunities for our people. Let us work on a project from the territory, explain it to the Pyrenees with transparency and vote on it. In Pirinius we know that a tree blows much more when it falls that not a hundred when they grow up. As much as Mr. Lamban and his party partners have boosted the current project, so many buses are pushing to tell us what we have to do, what we have to do to the Pyrenees as we decide to do to the Pyrenees. They stop protecting us from the metropolis; even though they don't believe it, there is intelligent life in rural areas. From Junts per Catalunya [[some applause]] all support for one hundred Catalan winter Olympic games. And if there's a bitch to do it in 2030, so we're-there. With regard to the Government's deployment, it is one of the objectives of the Pyrenees, but it is done with consistency. And that's what they're doing, starting with the advice they've got the most sense of doing it and all the time. This 2022 will have Greeting and Education to Tremp; Social Rights, to Sort; Digital Policies and Territories and Climate Action, to Seu d'Urgell. I 2023, Economy and Enterprise, Puigcerdà, and Culture, Pont de Suert. All the businesses have representation and we will work in the network. That's the path. With regard to Aran, Junts for Catalonia defends and will defend for such a time the self-government of Aran and bilateral relations between eth Conselh Generau d'Aran and eth Govèrn dera Generalitat de Catalunya and ei in these relations we want to decide which eth finance that Aran has of besonh. In august sense anaua was our amendment. Arregraim was a deal. [[Some applause.]] The young man also talks about housing, road and digital connections and the economic model, vital themes for the Pyrenees, and we have submitted papers to make it viable. On housing, social rights, allocate €5_million in aid to the rehabilitation of empty housing in rural municipalities to fight against depopulation, as was presented by Constellera Cervera just to Tuixent. And we're not only talking about social housing, but also about affordable housing and housing for everyone, which is what we need. In mobility, we have traded to work to adjust the timetables of the railway line of the People of Segur. But they recognize that Ferrocarrils is doing the work and is resurrecting an essential train line for the Pyrenees that Renfe had abandoned. Transport on demand is established in collaboration with local councils, and we agree that it should be enhanced. This feasibility study of the Alp tram train - the Seu d'Urgell - Andorra has been bid. The first step of a project that can be very transformative. Two 5G areas have been created in the Pyrenees and the Government will bring the fiber to all municipalities of more than fifty inhabitants, and with nanosatellites or other technologies will bring the entire Pyrenees to the Internet. But, obviously, we are missing some reference, for example, to the national 230 or the national 260, the Pirinenc eix. If so much worry about the Pirineu, ruling in Madrid, work to dignify the road artery of the Pirineu. Now it's a drama that doesn't allow us to make progress. And that diversifying the economic services of Pirinaeus is evidence, and that is why it is working on a global project of Pirinaeus taking advantage of the new technologies. We have reached agreements in many places, but we cannot vote in favour of a point that speaks of hydropower plants under law. But I insist – and with this I finish – on the most important: what is done to the Pyrenees we decide to do to the Pyrenees. The Government will initiate a participatory process in the framework of the strategic agenda of the Pyrenees this late. The previous memory of the mountain law, which has opened a popular participatory process, has already been approved. Many people of the Pyrenees have already participated, but I encourage all the Pyrenees and Pyrenees to do so. We need to listen to our vision to decide our future. And I think that the poetic tradition..., I don't know if it was started by the deputy Gallego, I think that the president probably is who has more interest or strength in this, but – I finish the president–, so also jombé, carrying the words of the poet of Peramola, Josep Espunyes, recently Cree de Sant Jordi, that in the poem Song of Study Time tells us: "From every contrada, / if I'll read, / pay will be the master, / pay or pastor. Thank you very much; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.37.0	And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Antoni Flores.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.38.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, deputies, deputies, in the Pyrenees and in the Aran we have lived for many years before. We have a demographic challenge: we need to attract, keep and raise the population. That's why we need to improve basic services. We have ecological repte, repte of connectivity, of transport, of the digital world, of energy. Repte to implement sustainable forest management. The challenges of participation and governance from the territories. And, above all, in my view, one key aspect is to guarantee economic services with sustainable economic projects that guarantee work places throughout the year in a _marc of respect for natural and cultural heritage. With regard to the first points of the motion we are debating today, we find ourselves once again with a subject that has been dealt with several times in this Parliament: the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games. Beyond what everyone can think, and they understand that what many of us have an opportunity to see as a risk, I think there are three very clear things: that the vision and the will of the people of Pirinius and Aran must be heard, that any of these processes must be as transparent as possible, and that with games or without, Pirinius must plan and develop its strategy for the future. And why the Pyrenees and Aran can have this future that we plant, calm, of entry, mechanisms of governance. As has already been said, eight departments have agreed with the territory between 2022 and 2023 to deploy their territorial services, and with the youth we commit ourselves to establishing a calendar for the rest. Therefore, it is just to put into value this bet of territorial governance and the compromise with the Pirinaeus of the Government is clear. With regard to the General Council of Aran, he fully agreed that he could have the necessary funding. This funding the Generalitat already the tea in force, according to the law in force, and respecting the agreements reached in the bilateral meetings that they make; agreements that, moreover, are reviewable according to nine needs that vagina exit. In this case, I believe that it is not possible to question the compromise to guarantee the functioning of the Council. The movement continues with a priority, a priority to any kind of country: housing. Obviously, an environment that needs different solutions depending on the realities of each municipality; let's not all agree on how to apply them. We agree that one of the key tools is rehabilitation, reform for a better energy, the promotion of energy communities and all that is fixed in the population, especially the young people. We are convinced that the sectoral territorial plan of habitating will take into account the specificity of each area to promote the policies that suit each location. Other key issues that the House wants to prioritize are mobility and digital connectivity. Totally in favour and, moreover, making it more sustainable mobility, improving rail connections. Public transportation is one of the tools we have to mitigate the effects of climate change. Therefore, the public transport bet must be at all costs. In short, always in favor of Pirinaeus and Aran, to talk about it here and that, it is what you do, it is with the participation of the people who live there and with the purpose that everyone can develop their life project in equal conditions, visqui where visqui. Lately, as has been said, the strategic agenda of Pirinaeus will be working through a participatory process that has to define the economic model of the Pirinaeus regions. But at this time we have a powerful tool to advance in the best conditions of the territory, a tool developed with a lot of participation of the territory: the rural agenda. We work to implement these proposals, but above all we do it with realism, with solutions that can be applied quickly, because it is urgent and because it is the only way to guarantee us a future for our territory. I would also like to thank Mr Parés' facility for negotiating motions. Basically, with most of the youth we agree, the first two points. But for the rest, we'll either be in favor of it or we might be abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.39.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Lords of Podemos, you present a motion full of contradictions, not rigorous and with its already classic communist dye that only smells of ruin and poverty for the High Pyrenees and Aran; a motion that speaks of tourismophobia – seal of the house –, of destruction of the commercial fabric and of state interventionism. In his interpellation, he pointed out that his goal was to make effective policies that change people's lives. And they try, of course they try, but worse. They talk about connectivity to improve the economic development potential of these areas historically abandoned by the Government as they dynamite the possibility of winter Olympic games that would attract investment and thus jobs and wealth. An event of these characteristics would strengthen the position of the region and Spain in the world, and especially in European tourism markets. Given the inability of this Government to generate employment, the option of attracting international tourism seems to me to be most appropriate. But you have already made it clear, the past plenary, that you prefer life alms as paydays to the creation of jobs. You also talk about the green economy and the climate emergency that plagues the world and that is especially rehearsed with the High Pyrenees and Aran. He vaccinated, after consulting his crystal ball, which in 2030 would be the hecatombe. But, on the other hand, they intend to plant the whole area with mobile antennas, regardless of the landscape and the impact on the native fauna. They talk about social housing, and we agree on that. It is the way in which we say, not at the expense of fighting the second residences, that is, national tourism. And they talk about the state of hydroelectric power, when after months of smoke bombs by the Government of Spain, of which you are part, you know all the Spaniards that sixty_per_cent of the bill are taxes that the executive is pocketing to pay chiringuitos and water their customer networks. In medical terms, it's a bipolar initiative. And in politics this term is frankly dangerous, because what shows is that you do not have a project for Catalonia, beyond destroying it with your constant support for separatists and filling your pockets at the cost of impoverishing working families, as is evident in this proposal. No, it's not like that, things. In an impoverished and grey Catalonia, secondary to the separatist and progressive policies it has been suffering for years, where the reality of thousands of desperate Catalans daily clashes with the trivialization that the Government makes of its problems, we cannot afford to bet on initiatives that frighten opportunities for growth and development, and that respond to the communist idea of red carpet. And this is one of these proposals. Neighbors of the Upper Pyrenees and Arán are abandoned. They do not want their ideological delusions, they want to live better, have better accessibility, better connectivity, better basic services and that the nearest administrations have what is necessary to ensure their well-being and prosperity. And there will always be VOX. We urge you to value the capacity of the Pyrenees to generate work; the capacity for development and investment through the charter of presentation that could be the Olympic games that you intend to evaporate; the capacity for regeneration of the rural world without the need to rush against the tourist industry, and, of course, also the need for uncovered services and relegated infrastructures that this region has, fruit of the laxity and total inability to manage the years of leftist separatist coalition, and whose disjunctive is nothing other than to look at the future of a social and patriotic alternative that does not abandon the, fuelling the gap of regional differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.41.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.42.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies... Mr Parés, you bring us here today a debate or the contradiction of the territorial debate, in this case, and you spoke of fairness. What I've seen – and I want you to let me do it – is that you've wanted to bring the Colau model to the Pyrenees, a species of strange conjunctures based, obviously, and involving, obviously, your will always, so that you can't play the Olympic games or that you can't work for an investment like the Winter Olympics in the Pyrenees. I believe that some Members who live there in Pirinius have made this clear. The territory wants catalysts for development and progress of this, and territorial equity is that too. Because, of course, territorial equity – and you, as a geographer, know – is based on a territory that is not the same, that is different. We need to adapt the proposals to the territory and try to make these continue or can generate this progress that we in this young man do not see. They talk about governance, for example, talking about some points they have in this young man. But for us here there is a contradiction, one that they also have in other points. For us it is never, or at least we have never believed in this time of the High Pirine and the Aran, because the Aran and the High Pirine are very different realities, all that they can sometimes hold in communion some common realities, but they are quite different as because they have actions and formulas and proposed in conjunction. Therefore, we do not believe in a joint governance of the High Pyrenees and the Aran, we believe that the Aran must have its own governance and also – and that we will vote for it – its just and adequate financing and its own administrative capacity, which we believe is the right one and is what the spiders really want. About connectivity. They talk about connectivity in general, they don't talk about mobility, and they let, as has been said here, a good part of the reality or the needs of the people of the Aran, which is not public transport in general, but it is a better part of the road network – because I think someone should say at this time – the road network of the Pyrenees. And I think it's necessary that he's brought in a young man who's talking about mobility and he's talking about the mountain, so the road network that's in there right now and that's not keeping it right. Of course, we must also pose and bet on a railway network if it is appropriate and correct, but it will not be possible to give services to the cent_percent of the territory and the inhabitants of the Pyrenees. I think this is logical and coherent. That's why I'm telling them to bring a colauist model to the Pyrenees and I don't think it's right. On topics and access to digital infrastructures, we haven't talked before in the previous point and I think it's appropriate, yes. We want some of the initiatives the Generalitat has, so we can get this connection to all the municipalities as soon as possible, but we are going with a significant delay, also, obviously, to the Pyrenees. They're talking about housing. Let's go back to seeing this colauist reality in the Pyrenees; or, then, the second residences must now be criminalized, the apartments and tourist habitats must be criminalized, and at the end no one asks the Pyrenees and the inhabitants of the Pyrenees whether these investments really are what they can fix..., because we also talked about fixing the population to the Pyrenees; it is that they must fix themselves with proper initiatives. If the only one we propose to the Pyrenees and its inhabitants are obstacles to growing, we will obviously not be able to fix anyone to the Pyrenees. Therefore, in favour of diversification. Obviously, it's very nice to talk about diversification of economic activity in the Pyrenees, everyone wants diversification, but we have to be realistic: the tourist industry is now the one that has made the most of the development of the Pyrenees resources. And so do those who see the Pyrenees. You're obviously like that. We must diversify it, yes; surely we must not rely solely on a winter activity. But I think that we can work on this, we can work on this, and surely, therefore, precisely at this point we are talking about diversification of tourist activities we will vote in favour. There's a whole series of points missing, I've been telling you. We believe that this model that you defend is not the model that the people of Pirinaeus need, but it is clear that we do need to work beyond a participatory process, as the government has proposed this late. I think we need to make real policies and implement and give adequate answers. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.43.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.44.0	Well, thank you, President. To thank, first of all, all the Members and Members with whom we have been able to negotiate ideas, predisposition. Some points that I understand, therefore, that improve the text of the motion substantially and that also allow us to reach consensus, reach agreements and compromises; commitments that are important to us, such as the one referring to the Pyrenees train. Therefore, it is a step forward to transform the reality of this territory. Give us some of the MPs who have intervened that the Olympic Winter Games continue to feel an opportunity. We think it's evidence that the Olympic Winter Games have failed, and the question we've been asking this young man is, and now what? And, therefore, what is the alternative of territorial development for the Pyrenees now that the Olympic games have failed. We're talking to this model. We believe that the development model of the Pyrenees cannot be through great projects such as this and must be a model adapted precisely to the territory. And that's why we're talking about access to housing, which is one of the main problems of the Pyrenees; that's why we're talking about the difficulties young people have in living in the Pyrenees; that's why we're talking about or thinking that one of the problems is job insecurity, tourism monoculture or lack of connectivity, which are things we're dealing with in this young man. Indeed, we do not treat everything; also, because this is a supplementary motion at 76/14, which we have already approved. And tell them too that if anyone has asked that it be from the Pyrenees where these great projects are decided, we have been ourselves and the CUP, which we have asked for a consultation. So, in the end, if anyone, you don't give up the metropolis, because I'm talking about other districts like central Catalonia... we're the ones we asked for, so we can do it participatively. I'm done. I won't end up with a poem, but I will end up with some literary reference. To tell them that it has been a pleasure, as it always is, to debate with the deputies of the territory, of the Pyrenees in this case – with Mrs Romero, with Mr Fàbrega, with Mr Flores – you, right? Therefore, they know and know the reality of their territory, but a territory that we understand is key for the country's conjunction, for our country, for this country of all. And as the writer and deputy Jenn Díaz said, and as she wrote, "the possessors change everything. [[Rialles.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.45.0	Well, then, after this poetic debate, let's move on to the next item on the order of the day, and let's just say that the vote is going to be in this middle, after we substantiate the number 20 point on the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the AP-7 highway collapses]] [[302-00180/13]] Let's move on to the split point, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the AP-7 collapses, which was presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and has the word to expose it to Congressman Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.46.0	All right, thank you, President. The thanks, the deputies, the deputies. The AP-7 collapse is a reality that we live, that we live the Catalans from the past September. We have been talking about different realities related above all to the rural world and also to the High Pyrenees, and now it is a reality that we find much in the metropolitan region, practically every day. I think we need to see this reality and this diagnosis is totally appropriate. For us, this situation presupposes a loss of personal opportunities, a loss of opportunities, many times, therefore, combined in our society, at a time when the distances are measured in time rather than in kilometers. For many Catalans it is a drama, the reality, and not just the heads of the week, but, as I said before, daily, because this is a reality and a daily problem, with different characteristics of the heads of the week, but in many cases they have to have concrete and adapted solutions. It's also a security problem, because left-handedness has grown over the growth of traffic before the toll opening. It's a problem that I could predict, because we know very well from the end of the 1990s that the concession would end in 2021. For us, moreover, it is a problem that requires a genuine coordinated response from the same Government, where unfortunately it does not happen, and from this Government with the Government of Spain. And it is a problem that needs a differentiated time view between short and medium term, with concrete actions not only on the road network, but also on the rail network. Coordination; coordination that is not there. Mirin, we haven't found, with the information coming from the bilaterals where the vice president goes, or at least the vice president informs us sometimes, no petition or any of the demands that we bring today in this motion and that many times it is possible to ask the government of Spain. Do not deal with these problems; do not deal with these real problems. We have meetings, like this week, to talk and comment and value the dialog, but the real problems, the real demands to be made to the Government of Spain, are not brought to these meetings. And they have the ability, and they can do it. In fact, including the general assumptions of the State, many of the claims we bring here today could have negotiated or put them on condition, so some of the parties that are part of the government, in some years where they have been given support to these assumptions. But, of course, they don't either. And I think that many times, when the proposals of the same State, of the same central government come to us in this case, so, like the north round between Terrassa and Sabadell or other proposals, as the enlargement of the fourth lane – which we have known or known this week – in some trams, to improve the mobility precisely to the AP-7, what do we find? So with a party, which is the Republican Left of Catalonia, that says no, that not to build, to do anything that can suppose a better mobility. And, of course, we're talking about cohesion, we're talking about coordination, but the first people to agree are you in the same government. What do we think is necessary to reduce the col·lapse to the AP-7? Some measures that have already put into operation, such as strategic cranes, speed limitation or truck traffic restrictions, are adequate, but insufficient. Short term we need to act on lives like the C-32, raise barriers in concrete moments, generate an alternative to good part of the south journey of the AP-7. And that's what we're wearing, we're going to take it today to the vote, and we're going to hook it up with some of the old campaigns that some of you know a lot about, to the "Prou toatges" and "I don't want to pay for a few years ago, because I think we can claim that in Catalonia today, too. We are pleased to be able to remember these things: « Prou toatges, « Prou C-32, « I don't want to pay, okay? We are also talking about other initiatives that we believe are necessary, such as railways, improving public transport, finishing the mobility project, which is not finished and which, in fact, continues to be a problem. The other proposals on line 9, which didn't end, or it seems they never ended. It's not that I'm not doing it anymore, it's that it's costing us a lot more than supposed to. And some of the proposals that are always used, such as the orbital route, the orbital railway, that we carry, in fact, since 2006 – to the transport infrastructure plan 2006-2026 was already designed – and we have never advanced. Much is said as the great road solution, but there are no concrete proposals. In short, we cannot leave the response to the AP-7 collapsing problem to improvisation. We need a coordinated, effective response that implements short-term solutions and that contemplates solutions that overcome the blockade, that we believe is constant, of a government that, as we have seen, ends up carrying us many times to the col·lapse. Thank you, President, Vice-President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.47.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.48.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, AP-7 is the most important artery in the region and collapses continuously. Circulating on this highway is free since September of the year 21 and this has clearly contributed to increasing its use by almost fifty_per_cent. It causes frequent kilometre jams and has resulted in a marked increase in accidents, tripled the number of deaths. It is clear that we have a problem of sinestrality, a problem of mobility. That is why we have been calling for weeks from the VOX Parliamentary Group to address this situation with concrete, urgent and realistic solutions. First of all, we agree with what has been said here: it is urgent that the Spanish Government invest more in improving and expanding the Catalan road network. Its task is to expand lanes in the most concentrated areas of the AP-7; it is to speed up the connectivity, permeability and accessibility of motorways with other routes in the territory and to facilitate links between them. And, as a result of that, it is obvious that we again ask the extreme left of this chamber to park its apocalyptic climate discourses, which have even led them to say here that they do not want road investments because they enhance the use of the private vehicle. To us this seems frankly an animalada. Last week... no, sorry, last month, Esquerra asked here in writing "the non-priority of obsolete mobility road infrastructures, inappropriate in a context of climate emergence and collapsing fossil fuels. This week we have heard the same thing again. In other words, the main party of the Government of Catalonia does not want to be improved, the Catalan roads to be enlarged, in a context in which thousands and thousands of Catalans are deeply trapped in the highways as if they were rattans. Frankly, this can't be understood by anyone at all. Secondly – and I have said this before – it is true that competition in terms of investment lies with the Government of Spain, but it is also true that it is the Generalitat that manages the traffic and can take measures to mitigate the queues and reduce that sinestrality of which I spoke before. The question we have to ask ourselves today here is: have you acted diligently? The answer, obviously, is no. They've improvised solutions to something we knew would happen long ago. We've known for a long time that the concessions are over. For a long time, we had known that, sooner than later, tolls would be liberalized, and that this would produce a fairly significant increase in circulation. Were steps taken at the time? No, no, We have had to wait to see how thousands and thousands of Catalans, as I said before, get trapped on the roads, mainly on weekends, mainly on the coasts, on the Brava and on the Dorada, but also on the day-to-day, when they are going to work at many points in Catalonia they are absolutely trapped. You have improvised..., the Government of the Generalitat has improvised events of dubious effectiveness, such as raising the limit of maximum speed on the roads, on the highway, as the RACC has affected you, that RACC itself has told you that it is a measure that serves no purpose. They improvise in the start-up of the few additional circumstantial lanes that we have seen these days, scarce and improvised. They improvise in the limitation of the movement of trucks, it has been a real chaos. They improvise with that crane service that goes on, but you don't know where it is – I don't know if they've served or if they haven't served. They improvise in their attempt to increase the number of traffic agents. No one knows how many they've put on, no one knows, no one knows where they are. Well, you talk to Mossos... they don't know. If someone from the government can make this clear to me, I'd appreciate it, wouldn't I? And the worst part is they're still refusing to liberalize the C-32 toll at peak hours. « – La ̈ pela ̈ es la ̈ pela ̈. – Yes, but the road is very collapsed, we could open the barrier, even a couple of hours, for traffic to flow... – No, no, to collect, to collect. I think that's what you need to look at and think about. I know that you, then, blame everything on Madrid. It is, you, what you are accustomed to, but we certainly want to tell you one thing that you already know: that you have much room for improvement, that you can do things much better; that you do not need to improvise all these kinds of policies, that you can also improve infrastructures within the margin of your budgetary powers, right? , on the margin of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And nothing else. And tell them that VOX will not remain impassable while thousands and thousands of Catalans are absolutely trapped on the Catalan roads as a result of their disastrous management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.49.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Irene Negre has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, deputies and deputies... Ciutadans presents a motion that encompasses different territorial themes that I will go on to analyze one by one in order to fix the position of the Junts Group. In the first place, they offer us the return of public work to Catalonia to improve the intermodal mobility of people. We want to invest in mobility. For this very reason, we are calling on the Spanish State to comply with the payment to the Government of Catalonia of pending imports in relation to the third additional provision of the Statute of Catalonia, in order to be able to decide which mobility infrastructures are necessary for the country. Investments in the intermodal mobility of people and goods, totally necessary to position Catalonia as a logistic node in the international network of production and distribution of goods of all kinds. I suppose this is one of the reasons for which the Spanish State does not pay what it gives: a richer and more worried Catalonia, after the democratic demonstration of our hopes for freedom on October 1, 2017, that they would deprive us of the 18_million euros per year, approximately. We suffer a constant hardship from the Spanish State with Catalonia: 35,8_per_cent of the execution of the investments in infrastructures towards 185_per_cent of the execution in Madrid; 12,400_million euros of historical deficit of reversal since 2009 of the State – network of rolling stock, Corredor Mediterrani or other works pending execution. For what it does to the comprehensive security plan, make clear that it is being implemented to address the coll·lapses to the AP-7 and will continue to work among the skills in transit matter. Cal, however, intensify the vigilance of the police units at the AP-7. The wax of the paste sees when from the group proposing to us that we raise the barriers of the C-32, a highway of ownership of the Generality, in order to mitigate the difficult effects that the AP-7, a highway of ownership of the State, is causing, because this one has not bothered to make the necessary investments to improve it, nor to predict the problems that would generate the gratuity of this, nor to adopt the measures and the execution of the necessary works that could have been done in advance. I ask the Citizens' Group why they have not accepted the idea that we proposed by the Groups of Juntes and Esquerra, where we said that the Government of the State provides the economic resources necessary to deal with the expenses that are generated by this rise of barriers. The State has rescued high-capacity lives that had a model similar to that of the C-32 in Madrid – its radial highways. What's the matter, that we only serve to pay in Catalonia? So Catalans and Catalans need the same answer on the part of a state that says it's all of them. Let's pay, and not a bit, but you see we pay to rescue Madrid. And now, what do they want? Don't even talk to us. There's enough to blow the generality across the fronts. That's enough. For this reason, and as compensation for the infra-financing burden of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia and the many years of the citizens of Catalonia supporting the payment of the tolls..., it is not necessary to rescue the concession of the toll of the C-32 still in force in Catalonia. User name of the AP-7. I make a few hundred and fifty miles to get to Barcelona and I make one hundred and fifty miles more to get home to me almost every day; three hundred and miles, mostly for the AP-7. I know what I'm talking about when I say it's a shame, what the state is doing, being free of all responsibility with the complicity of some parliamentary groups in this chamber. They should act, and they should do it now. They must respond to the problems that have caused us because of their inopportunity. At point 5 they accepted the idea that we proposed to them to like the administrations competent to execute the plans for the construction of parking links between the private vehicle and public transport, both railway and bus. It encourages people to travel in public transport. In this way, we avoid collapses, and, moreover, it is a sustainable transport. I agree, but the inhabitants of the Lands of the Hebrews do not have it easy or quick. The journey is two hours and a train ride, according to Renfe, but we actually arrive in Barcelona in three hours. Many times, the fruit of incidences, with a little luck we arrive... five hours, there are five hours, on the train, to reach our destination. We claim once more that the Euromed is in the village and we can have a decent railway service. We claim investments in infrastructure, in trains, in chains, in stations, in lives. And, if they don't want to do it, it's no big deal: they're passing on their skills and their economic resources to make it a full management of the Catalan railway system. We are available and able to manage it. For what it does to line 9 of the Barcelona metro, the Generalitat has already reactivated the construction of the central tram last June. At this point the workers have already recovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.51.0	And finally, Mr Ferran Estruch has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone, deputies and deputies. Mr. García, we share the concern about the situation of the collapsing AP-7. And the evidence is that we've submitted a lot of papers, and I'm sorry that we just couldn't make one. I'm really sorry. Entering the movement, the situation that is experienced in the different sections of the AP-7 – the col·lapse that we live, the increase of the left-handedness – we are concerned, and we are very concerned, with the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Once upon a time: the rise of the PA-7 tolls has caused an increase in the forty-per-cent turn of the tourist and heavy-duty traffic in almost all of the way. This increase worries us, because it has caused these collapsing situations that we are dealing with today, the increase of accidents. And, obviously, this has to make us all think, and it leads us to think how we can manage this journey in this infrastructure. And just before this reality – which you were talking about proposals – tell her that her motion, that the title is about the AP-7 col·lapse..., but there are only two points of the AP-7 – of September. Whatever I gave him, we have put forward proposals. And this very week our parliamentary group tabled a motion for a resolution to improve the management of the traffic of the AP-7 with a battery of mechanisms that intend to reduce congestion this way. Besides, some of the Interior Council is acting. To tell him that, for example – that I think he was the deputy of VOX, who said so – of the eight hundred steps that would be incorporated into it, an important part would go to the transit of our country. I would like to say that there is a proposal for a resolution with concrete measures. Like, for example, incorporating mechanisms such as installing variable-speed instruments, reinforcing the reversible lane, stratifying a set of cranes to facilitate the removal of vehicles or regulating the movement of trucks in days of maximum influx. Moreover, we also propose, as I said, in this motion for a resolution, to increase the endowment of the moves in this way. For another band, in this young man, Mr. García, we find missing what is a problem for us, a fund debate that has also been mentioned, which is how we manage high-capacity lives. How can it be that, after so many years, knowing that the concessions were over, it is clear that they do not want to be renewed – now it is clear that they do not want to be renewed – also knowing that Europe obliges us to establish a sustainable and user-friendly system – which pollutes pay – for the use of high-capacity lives, nothing has happened? How can it be? We're late, very late, to the State and also to Catalonia. And now we're not part of the consequences. From here on, we are calling again to resolve this key issue, to put forward a proposal for the table and to do so quickly, in line with Europe and which has already been implemented in other countries. The motion contemplates other elements that we consider important and that we are not against, I have already said, but that they have not accepted our papers and believe that they do not conform to reality. Ask for an integral plan to address the collapses. That's the plan; if it comes down, let's make it better, Mr. García. Ask to evaluate the possibility to raise barriers from the C-32. We agree, but... who pays? So much cost, accept us...? We didn't ask him to accept neither the transfer nor all the money. We only asked him that the removal of barriers in front of the AP-7 col·lapse, the ownership of the State – which they do not say – is therefore compensated with the provision of resources to the Government of Catalonia. So much for accepting this? Honestly, I don't understand. And, finally, in the motion, ask the Government, the Government of Catalonia – Vice President, I apologize, that I have not greeted him –..., as holder of the competences of closeness since 2010, among other things, to the motion, you, eh? ...,the construction of the Vallès orbital line. You see, either they have a deep disenchantment with the assumption that 2010 was the turnout – that I don't believe, that's enough years – or they're laughing at all of us and, what's harder, at the citizens of our country. They know perfectly well that the Generalitat, after 2010, only manages frequencies, times and information to the user; more. Do you want to build the railway orbital of Vallès or do you want to do more than you do to infrastructure like the AP-7? Perfect, totally agreeable. The Left Parliamentary Group has been working on it for many years. Take over from the government, most of this chamber, and demand more resources from the state. And stand next to the government and this chamber in demanding the full transfer of rolling stock, a real transfer, with lives, trains and resources. They know they won't do it. We want to manage everything, take all responsibility and stop blaming Spain, in fact, for the bad management of infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.53.0	So, then, and to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.54.0	Thank you, President. It's obvious, I stop blaming Spain for all the... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mirin, on the sidelines of the Catalonian road network, the number of accidents and these deaths has fallen in comparison to the year 2019, except for the AP-7, where accidents have increased, and have increased exponentially. We are aware that it is a long way to go that it does not just take the journey from Catalonia, but it is a way to go, to go, above all the Mediterranean, right? The flow of vehicles, both to the north and to the south, from the removal of the tolls, has disappeared to a forty_per_cent more vehicles– even, in some trams, in some higher percentage. They've gone up, too, huh? In some of the lives, these collapses, and this intensity of transit also note it in some other way that it was not or is not owned by the State, that in this case it was owned and owned by the Government of the Government of Catalonia, such as, for example, the C-32 north, which at certain times also goes to similar congestion rates to that of the AP-7. It's true. We need to improve this infrastructure from two points of view, from the visit of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: with investment in infrastructure and also with investment in the dynamic management of this road infrastructure. It has been announced..., and not only have it been announced, but only that the bidding has begun to improve the AP-7 in its connections to other structuring road infrastructures of the country and to equip more wagons also, in the most problematic trams, the AP-7. I hope so, huh? ...,my parliamentary group hopes that, ahead of these announcements and the bids that have already begun from this expansion of carriages to the AP-7 motorway, the groups that conform to the government this time vagina units, huh? , because I have the impression that we can once again have a new discrepancy in visions with respect to what we need to do. We also believe that we need to invest in these infrastructures, expanding rails in some trams, because the AP-7, which is a long-running, repeat, long-running route, also takes on more local or regional or territorial routes in some trams in our territory. And, therefore, here there are many routes, the long ones running and the ones that are not so much. And what we've been seeing: it ends up collapsing, too, by these degrees of congestion, more local or local lives, causing concrete problems. Or, then, I could talk to them about the round of the Vallès, about the north round of the Vallès – I did it fifteen days ago, I won't repeat it again, but... –, I could talk to them about another one that I do know and that it has provoked and that is causing another time increase in traffic, which is derived from the AP-7, from the liberation of tolls, which is the south and north round of Granollers. The trucks that had disappeared or practically disappeared at the time of the release of tolls now pass this way again, because in these thirty-miles that someone is opposed to the expansion of carts..., it turns out that more than 2,400 heavy vehicles pass this way again. And the Government of the Generality fails to complete a resolution of the plenary of the Parliament indicating that the Government, in the six-month period– and has already passed, that term–, must be put in place so that heavy vehicles do not pass this way, that it is a very citizen, very local, in this city. He didn't put up the speed radars or the control of material readers. Therefore, reversal on the part of the Government of Spain, yes, and reversal on the part of the Government of Catalonia, which is the holder in the management of the traffic, too. What? So in investments, by the way, as I used to say, a dynamic traffic management. And, finally, in these twelve seconds that remain of my intervention, ask the Government of the Government of Catalonia, to the parties that form part of it, that this time do not become a motif of discrepancy the investments already announced and bid by the Government of Spain, because, in this case, Mr. Estruch, the Government of Spain will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.55.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Ms Montserrat Vinyets has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.56.0	Good morning. MPs, MPs, in relation to this motion presented for the Socialist Party, we have to say... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ai-forgived-, yes, Ciutadans. [[The joker laughs.]] It's a young man who's entitled on AP-7 collapses. She's a young woman we understand is certainly in ambiguities. And, with specific reference to the AP-7 motorway, the government is directly asked why you are making a plan to address the collapses and those present in Parliament. It is not clear to us that this is the best scenario to do this, and we believe that perhaps the best has followed, to the Commission of Territories, to clarify what concrete measures would be needed in terms of the safety of users. We see that this is a fairly technical decision and that, in any case, it seems that from the interior consulting service, through the staff assigned to the Català de Trànsit Service, therefore, work has already been done and this plan has already been done. In any case, it's good news that you've laid on this young man's table. And first we celebrated that you didn't talk about the expansion of the AP-7, even though it's true that this joy has been very short, it's taken us a long time, because now you yourself in the Faristol, so they said you were in favor of enlargement. It has not surprised us, from the liberal optics that you maintain, that, therefore, the thing that liberalism does is to put red captivating to all that is great transnationals, the transport of goods, etc. We see what the position of the other parliamentary groups is. The Socialist Party, therefore... has already told us Mr Terrades that the bidding for the expansion of the AP-7 has begun. Indeed, the four-track project between Martorell and Vilafranca is being tendered, at an estimated cost of 140_million for a few twenty-three kilometres. And studies are also being auctioned for the Sant Celoni - Montornès tram, some twenty-two kilometres, at a cost of 115_million euros. Therefore, socialists in favour of enlargement. The People's Party obviously agrees. Yesterday he illustrated to us, his deputy, that freedom in this country consists of the right to take a car – before it was to take a canya, now it is to take a car without limitations. Therefore, they are also in favour of the expansion of the infrastructure. Okay. So, obviously, we're not... well, it looks like Territori's office, too... we're not clear what its position is in relation to enlargement. Let's hope that on the next few days we are clear on the position of the Republican Left. The position of the Department of Territories is unclear. Yes, they did say, if they didn't seem to hear it badly, that this would help reduce CO2 emissions caused by congestion. That is to say, with enlargement there would not be so many congestions, and therefore CO2 would be reduced. Sounds like a very fluid argument to us, Vice President. I think they should rule it out, that argument, and focus more on claiming the Mediterranean Corridor, that they always leave us for..., well, like a long-term thing. But if you enter the game of accepting this quarter lane, enter the game of the rendezvous schedule. And, as always, the same old receptions. To us what is going on at the AP-7 seems like a good half-way from what is going on... : it's not as long as the AP-7 has collapsed, but the one that has collapsed today is neoliberalism and globalization. It is not possible to respect capitalism with respect to the environment, because capitalism is based on the false premise that growth is infinite, and that is not possible. Resources are over, perpetual growth is inexhaustible. And, therefore, I already have to bet on a word that many of you produce urticaria, but it is very simple, and it is said to decrease, and it is worth more than the female voluntarily than not abruptly. We are immersed in an ecological, economic and social crisis, and this fourth lane of the AP-7 will not harm us. They're not doing anything to respond to the situation that we're not back in. And it doesn't fit into the common sense of betting for an expansion of the AP-7, because it's not a measure that reduced the private vehicle. And so it's a decision that's not meant for people, but that's meant to promote capitalism. Capitalism needs infrastructure to give out to its constant need for expansion. That's right, always subsidized with public work, as the motion says – that here it does appeal to public work, the motion. We said so because they are the first ones to go out and preach the need to extend the AP-7 to cover public assumptions; those who ask for it are the same ones who then claim the tax download and the withdrawal from the State in any kind of action. So, don't keep a quarter lane, but what you need is to start decreasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.57.0	I, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common People, have the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Citizens are proposing to us a young man who refers to a problem that is real and that I think is the first one we have to see all of us, isn't it? , which is the AP-7 highway collapse. A collapse in which we can certainly agree very much with the diagnosis, we say: a lack of planning of the raising of tolls. I believe that this is one of the evidences, both for the lives of state competence and for the lives of Catalan competence, where these tolls have risen, which have caused perverse effects that surely had not been predicted or predicted well. And the effects have been the increased clarity of the use of the private vehicle, with which this entails an increase in emissions, also an increase in left-handedness and also an increase in the use of time in the car by citizens, who, in the end, end up spending more time destined to move from one place to another. That's what he does for the diagnosis. What we certainly do not share is the setting up of solutions that both from Ciutadans and from different groups that have intervened on the table. You're telling us the solution is more wagons, it's B-40, right? Certainly, more wagons also means more cars; so, in reality what we're doing... When we're expanding wagons, it's proven that what we're doing is also increasing the number of users of these lives. We believe that solutions must go for another gang. The first solution that comes to the House and that we will vote for it is the railway orbital. We think the alternative has to go for the train. Also for the transport of goods, because much of the traffic that circulates for the AP-7 today is of goods, they are heavy vehicles. And, therefore, it is essential to keep the Mediterranean Corridor. Also for some measures that have been proposed by other parliamentary groups that have to do with the management of the traffic and the winery, because at the end we have planned..., we have raised the pages without providing alternatives, and this has two great consequences. The first, a situation of territorial injustice. That is to say, it is true that there was a territorial injustice when we in Catalonia had tolls and the rest of the state did not, but now there is also a territorial injustice when the people of the Bages or the people of the Garraf have to pay tolls and the rest of the country, so they have freed themselves from tolls. Therefore, there is a territorial injustice between lives in which we pay tolls and lives in which we do not. But then there is a social injustice, which is the financing of the maintenance of these lives, because we are paying with assumptions of the Generality or with assumptions of the State the maintenance of some road infrastructures that does not use them everyone, because fifty per cent of the population does not have a car. Then, among all of us, we pay that those who have cars can use these lives, and, in a different way, can't they? So, we get paid to use the rail service. So this is a contradiction that I think we need to put on the table. And, when we approach the debate of the winery – which we go too late to approach it – this has to be taken into account, because it has to be paid for you, but we also have to achieve that this payment for you from the road infrastructure has also reversed or has an effect on the behavior of the users. And that I think is important, because, in the end, then, it's true that tolls also had an effect on the behavior of users and users of these lives. Therefore, with the winery we do not only need to ensure that we finance the maintenance of these lives for those who use them, but also that we should achieve, therefore, that there has been a transfer of use from the private and road modes to the modes of transport collected and railways. Therefore, I believe that this is one of the objectives that we must also pursue, as I said, for a question of social justice. I'm done. We will not vote in favour of the first two points of the motion; yes, of all the remaining points that make proposals that we can share – those that they have to see with intermodality, those that they have to see with railways, etc. Therefore, these we share, but not the first two points, for a question of settlement. First of all, because you put a lot of emphasis on intermodality, which we share, but we believe that you do not have the same vision that we, of course, must have mobility solutions, that you do not just go through intermodality and, as you say, therefore, for the expansion of lanes and to invest in road transport, but we believe that you are going through the transport of the collection and the train. And it's a matter of priorities, because if in the end you have resources to expand the AP-7 and make the B-40, they are resources that are not destined for the railway orbital or the Mediterranean Corridor. Therefore, the priorities are very different. And the second: you talk to us, the second point, about having a fluid and loyal dialogue of the Government of Catalonia with the other territorial administrations – therefore, with the State. Clearly, we say yes, okay, but loyalty must be two-way, and therefore, if we are to debate the territorial model and the model of mobility, we debate everything. And what can't be is that it's stuck here and it's said, "The AP-7 has to be expanded or "We've already bid on the extension of carriages...", "The airport has to be expanded, we've already bid on the extension of carriages of the AP-7. So, of course, the State can come here and tell us and impose on us what we do with the airport and what we do with the AP-7, but we have to be loyal at the time of planning the infrastructure. If we ask for loyalty, it's a condition of bilaterality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.59.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.60.0	Thank you, President. We will support the motion in its entirety. Indeed, as the spokesman for the CUP pointed out yesterday at the control session, we referred to two of the measures discussed: the liberalisation of the C-32 at certain times, without the full medium term, which we believe is essential – the most expensive motorway in Europe – and we also support the extension of lanes in two sections, I insist, which would serve to decongest this traffic. But we also said yesterday – and that is why we support the whole motion – that we did not disregard some of the measures that the Republican Left spokesman defends, for example, or has here defended, which we believe can be used for traffic of moderate density and which can also decongest, but which are insufficient when we are talking about traffic as dense as those currently living. In the same way that we do not believe that the measures proposed by the motion for a defence of public transport are to be flouted. It is that everything is complementary, but we believe that, without one, the other are absolutely insufficient. Yes, I would like to make reference – not to everything, because we could be here for an hour talking –... finally, to what the spokesman of the UPC has commented on the positions of the People's Party. Yes, I would like to talk about the question of decline. I say this because speaking like this, with a certain frivolity, of the decrease, as if it were a "cool" thing, has its consequences, the decrease. I will give you a data: the Venezuelan economy has decreased between the period 2013-2021 a seventy_y_five_per_cent. That has social consequences, but very serious social: famines..., that is, genuine barbarities. To say that the economy has to decrease seems to me to be a real frivolity. In fact, the Venezuelan authorities now assume that 2022 could be the first year in the last fifteen years for the Venezuelan economy to grow, above all because of the oil issue, of course. But it is that the Venezuelan authorities have come to understand that it is better to grow than to decrease; that, if you grow, there is a chance that people will live better, and that, if you decrease, what it is..., is to send people to misery, especially if it is a sustained decrease as you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.61.0	Okay. So, over with the debate, I'm also guessing that this young man's vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, excuse me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's right. Mr. García, to pronounce on the exams, again has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.62.0	Thank you, President. On the exams, to go quickly, we accepted the exam 5. I think it improved the text; therefore, no problem. The rest... I'll give you two examples of why we didn't accept them. The one proposed by the Government, Esquerra Más Junts, said to us, for example: « The transfer of the entire network of reelers of general interest of the State to Catalonia..., and, when we went to another one that presented VOX to us: « Return to the Government of Spain all the competences in the field of railway transport. You ask for the transfer of the reel of the State here and VOX asks for the transfer of all the railway infrastructure to the State. So neither one nor the other, we cannot accept this. L'Estat doesn't leave us, or... Okay. Line 9: assumed, 2,000_million initially; it will end up costing 16,000_million. Is that why they want to manage the infrastructure? To keep this overpriced? I don't think he's right. About the C-32, we tried, with the Black lady, above all, to negotiate a transactional. It was impossible. Because we believe that C-32 should be able to open occasionally when there are problems of emergence. And it has nothing to do with, in this case, with the ownership being – that of the AP-7 – which can generate these problems of state ownership, because the problem does not generate only the AP-7, it generates general mobility in Catalonia. So what we have to do, in this case, is manage better, as I said before, and pay this ransom. Therefore, we defended the "I don't want to pay," "no more tolls, that you give; so now we defend it, too. A few more comments. It's obvious that all the infrastructure... has been talked about here, so that there aren't just two measures about the AP-7, because in the end mobility is interconnected, and I think that's obvious. And above all, you have made quite an excuse to listen to Mr. Parés speaking of loyalty, when you are ruling Spain, or so the Government of Spain is there, you are. So, I don't know if they're loyal to themselves, because sometimes I lose a little, in this type of relationship they have with the PSC or the PSOE, in this case. But they're ruling. Therefore, remain loyal to yourselves, and these investments that you make here and that I think are good girls, like those of the AP-7, so defend them with a little strength and believe that they are ruling Spain, because it is important for all Catalans. Thank you, Members of Parliament and the President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.63.0	Thank you. So now yes, the debate is over, this young man's vote is going to be in place this middle, once the number 20 of the order of the day is over. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories belonging to Asco and Vandellòs]] [[302-00178/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories belonging to Asco and Vandellòs, which the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group presented to advance. And she has the words of Congresswoman Silvia Paneque, to expose her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.64.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor..., no, Councillor, no – I thought... –, he went away. It is a question, this one, of a young man who has few points, very focused on a question, as I also faced the question with Councillor Torrent, who ultimately does not ask that the view or opinion of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia be listened to, but what he does is to convey a territorial demand that has seemed to us fair, reasonable, and, as he said, that is concretely in three points: a first, which is intended for the regions of Ebra and Camp de Tarragona fifty_per_cent, as at least, of the resources of the deposit of nuclear power stations; second, that the regulation of the Nuclear Transition Fund is approved, and third, an economic stimulus for the regions of Ebra and Camp de Tarragona. I want to give thanks – and I want to start here – to parliamentary groups, which have understood that this was not an out-of-measure demagogic request or that they had a political secret, but that it was a cross-cutting, reasonable, rational and just demand, and, as the gods said, it came from their own territory. And, therefore, I would like to thank most parliamentary groups for this sincere willingness to negotiate compromises, opinions in favour of the territory, with no greater value than falling..., political segell, and, in particular, to En Comú Poder and the CUP Group, therefore, for this negotiation, which has allowed us, I believe, to enrich and expand this motion. I also wanted to convey my most sincere misunderstanding about five criteria that guide the government – and unfortunately there is no counselor, but... – which are the criteria that guide this government on this issue. Why are only twenty per cent of the inputs related to production, storage and transformation of nuclear energy to be allocated to these areas owned by the nuclear power plants in Ascó and Vandellòs? Why? What criteria will guide them, at the time of marking this wind and not, as we propose, fifty or more beyond fifty, if they have supported one hundred_per_cent of the negative externalisations of these nuclear power plants? Why? Why only did he come? And more in a matter that you have total and absolute decision. There is no one here who guides them or marqui. You can decide what percentage, and you have decided – we don't understand why – a twenty. Why only did it come, if they have suffered a hundred_percent of the consequences or problems of living next to these nuclear power stations? Why, if they're the cleanest territories? Why does the eighty per cent of this tax have to go or disappear somewhere else in the territory? Why? Why not a 50-per-cent minimum in the Lands of the Ebro and Tarragona Camp because there's a green transformation opportunity? Why not this fifty per cent, or at least fifty per cent, of this nuclear tax fund to give opportunities to these territories? Why not? Why not this fifty-per-cent minimum, if the energy transition of these territories and the accumulated knowledge capital make it precisely possible to be the spearhead in the green transformation that Catalonia needs? Why not this fifty-per-cent minimum in territories that have been exemplary with Catalonia's collective commitment in its growth and opportunities, generating energy beyond all these years? Why don't they want to meet a fair demand for rebre like at least this fifty per cent of this fund? And why do they not want to give this compromise, this Government of the Generality..., to reverse in these municipalities that for so many years have endured, as I said, these negative externalities? You fill your mouth to say that you want to listen to the voice of the territory – a few minutes ago you did it with the Pyrenees, just a few minutes ago – and the territory spoke clearly. In the public presentation they replied: "The territorial distribution fee that governs the fund should represent fifty_percent of the tax. Therefore, the view of the territory is clear. And I must regret that the Councillor gave a voice in his question that there were resolutions of the Lower Camp and the Ribera d'Ebre district councils in the opposite sense, and it is not true, it is not true: these resolutions do not exist. Therefore, the view of the territory is very clear. And, finally, and also in response to some question that came out in the talks and in the inquiry about the no compromise or resources that the Spanish government – from many years ago, to more, not socialist governments, eh? , of different colors – it has with the territory..., then I will give them more concrete data, but, respect to nuclear residues, I must say that since the year 2015 – therefore, from seven years ago – the Miteco, through Enresa, is providing for restoration, dismantling and environmental restoration of the order of 1_million euros each next time to these nuclear reactors. Therefore, the Spanish Government's commitment is clear on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.65.0	It has the word, in the first place, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy lady Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.66.0	Well, thank you, President. We will begin our intervention by recalling the position that we have held on the CUP and the joint independenceist left always in relation to nuclear. I mean, let's remember that we've always positioned ourselves against this energy for the perils that it involves for the conjunction of people as well as for its impact on the environment. And, in fact, let's remember that these power stations... or concretely the power station in Ascó, huh? We remember how it was implanted in the territory: first they lied to the people saying they were going to put in a chocolate factory – I don't know if you know it – and then, when they saw the earrings in the water, and they unravelled the paste, what they did was they imposed this center at the end of the suitcase and, more importantly, with police protection. We, in addition, have systematically positioned ourselves against extending the lives of nuclear power stations. Let us remember: the State's last pact with the electricians to extend the life of nuclear power was 2019, with Pedro Sánchez to the head of the Spanish government, and therefore we cannot debate this young man without remembering the fear of having enlarged, having systematically approved the enlargement of the life of nuclear power stations. Moreover, we must also begin this intervention, regrettably recalling that the European Parliament recently agreed on the disproposal of considering nuclear energy as green against all logic, against all common sense and against all scientific reasoning. And, saying all this, and focusing on the reason that the PSC is presenting to us today, obviously we will vote for it, because you – and we must thank you – have accepted our papers and agreed to make the first one. We in the first of the points that we asked is, therefore, that these resources ascend to the noranta_per_cent of the tax, of which the tax represents, because we understand that, if they come out of this activity and if they come out of this territory..., why not, practically the totality of these moneys, return them to the territory? Let's say the noranta_per_cent because normally this deu_per_cent could have felt that if you left who manages the recap of this tax, huh? But the rest of us understood that we should go to all the territories. And, in addition, what we asked for is that it is priority in the media environment projects of types, so..., like, for example, the conservation of natural space, forest management, the recovery of agricultural space for the prevention of fires... Because this tax is actually what you tell us that it is recapturing for the impact on the environment, and, therefore, the activities to be allocated to these resources that are recapturing we understand that most or priority must be specifically related to the care of the environment. And lastly, the thought that we have proposed and that has also been accepted is that the economic recovery plan that they propose from the PSC, therefore, is developed jointly with all the agents of the territory. All this has been accepted, and therefore we are in agreement with it. We also find positive the reports that have been added from the group of the commons. We think that they improve the text and are looking to guarantee the economic future to the territory. And, in this sense, we want to remember, therefore, that there is a lot of magic around the lockdown of the power stations. It's said that people will lose their jobs, that people will leave the territory. It is not true, with the closure and the dismantling of the power stations it will generate occupation, and therefore it is interesting to note the need for the people of the territory who are destined to do these tasks. But, also, we want to make it clear that the papers presented by the groups that conform to the Government seem relevant to us. Why? Because we don't think it's out. Up to and including us, which we had asked to allocate the noranta_per_cent, to the noranta_per_cent of the resources of this tax..., we think that yes, the State should also allocate money to the territory, obviously. Why not? And, in fact, it seems to us that the PSC does not require its own that it requires the other woman little to be qualified, with her posture, of hypocrites and even of opportunists. Because the territory deserves it, doesn't it? Because the power stations are in the territory, because who is harmed with these power stations is the territory. So why don't they ask the state for the same as the government? Finally, and very quickly, we want to make it clear that it is time to take care of the territory, that it is time to compensate the territory that has been exposed to the danger that involves living with nuclear power stations, and that systematically conceals information. And we remember that last May, once again, Asco's headquarters deliberately hid information about a haunting. And it's time that the administrations faced the opaque practices of all these great industries in the accounts to take them, because the people of Camp Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre are not enough, to be the abbotador of the Catalan Countries.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.67.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has now the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.68.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mirin, that southern Catalonia has historically been underprivileged is evidence, now and then. Just as we remember the few investments and infrastructures that have been made, and that, moreover, instead of positively discriminating these communities, there is exactly the opposite, which is usually to invest under the middle of Catalonia. And it is also an evidence that in southern Catalonia all those infrastructures that often – mass – the rest of the country does not want have been concentrated. And some examples prove it. For example, in the Upper Land, with 0.16_percent of the population of Catalonia, twenty-i-five_percent of the wind energy of the whole country is produced, while there are many regions of Catalonia that do not want to have a simple wind park. We can also talk about all attempts to transfer and also the current misnamed mini-transmission. But if there is any evidence that it was intended to turn southern Catalonia into the backseat, into the abboteur of our country, it is certainly the installation or existence of the nuclear power plants in Asco and Vandellòs. A situation that certainly goes back to the time of Francoism and Development, but that also, certainly, we still have today, and this affects many municipalities of these regions – in fact, all of them in the Ribera d'Ebre and a good part of the Baix Camp, the Baix Ebre, the Priory and the Upper Earth – with the economic and social consequences that were going on. Now, it's also true that the nuclear shutdown is expected to be more likely than far beyond what has been said, isn't it? , which is happening at these times at European level stem from the energy crisis. And, therefore, from our parliamentary group, as we have always defended, we are betting on the closure of these nuclear power stations. And obviously, too, it's necessary to work to make a transition that allows these commas to pull forward equally once they close these nuclear weapons. Therefore, obviously we support this tax on the Nuclear Transition Fund, but we also consider that it is totally insufficient that only twenty per cent of this tax is allocated to the affected territories. And, therefore, we will give support to the motion..., because yes, we consider that as a minimum it should be fifty_per_cent, the one year destined for the affected comarques, because in the end the comarques that have this environmental impact are the harmed ones, right? For decades, to keep these nuclear weapons, and once they have been dismantled, it is not possible to understand how only a 20_per_cent of this tax will go to these comarques and the remaining eighty_per_cent is not known exactly what it is intended to go to or, in any case, will go outside these territories. We also, of course, support the fact that this transitional rule is being adopted as quickly as possible in relation to the European Fund. Also, obviously, an economic recovery plan for these communities, which also goes in the line of a young man that our group presented a few months ago. And since our parliamentary group we have wanted to make two contributions, two points, which go on the line, first of all, that it is agreed and agreements of fair transition in the line of the 2030 objectives, and, therefore, that it is possible to give continuity to the economic activity of the area causing this closure to really follow a compromise for the owners of the plants with the future economic both of the Camp of Tarragona and of the Lands of the Ebre. And secondly, the other point that we also wanted to make is that precisely this dismantling is also done with the contract and with the occupation from businesses and people in the respective affected territories, because we consider that it is also essential, in this sense. Therefore, and ultimately, let us hope that this young man today will be able to approve. We hope that it will not diminish the south of Catalonia again and that an opportunity such as this nuclear tax will really continue as low as fifty per cent to the affected areas, because, we insist, it is the territory that has suffered, that suffers this environmental impact, and therefore it should not be discriminated against again by the fact that only twenty per cent, right? , from this tax follow what has had an impact on the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.69.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.70.0	Yes; thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin this brief intervention by putting into context the time at which we are and the time at which this motion is registered, right? As you all know, electricity, butane, gasoline and gas, at the price of gold; energy poverty, of which almost no one is talking, triggered – triggered – ; the competitiveness of thousands of companies, in free fall; a separatist government that has been years without betting on renewables – we have been doing so for three years without launching a single mill in Catalonia – ; ministers recommending that we take less showers, turn off the air conditioning or play with awnings to protect ourselves from heat. A government of Spain tearing down thermal power plants in a hurry, destroying our gas trade relations with Algeria and buying more gas from Russia than ever before. Politicians who charge taxes to energy-providing companies, who end up having an impact on the bill and on the price of the product. And, on the horizon, not too far away, energy supply cuts proper to banana countries; cuts that, even the minister herself, I think is, from Podemos, invites us to reflect, and that, in the end, makes it clear that they can be a possibility, right? And how do you respond to all this? And I say to him..., « everyone..., who? Well, so the set of separatists, the PSC, we can, et cetera. For you continue with your climate pack explained to you by little Greta, you continue to squander hundreds of millions of children's propaganda against apocalyptic climate change as China laughs, you refuse to allow the exploitation of gas or oil, you continue to ban fracking – which our American gas suppliers do use –, you manage electricity like paraphernalia, you maintain a savage bureaucracy to install large photovoltaic parks and you keep your irresponsible crusade against nuclear energy. And that's what this motion is about. Socialists, communists and all the separatist buffoon that is here, far from rectifying, as the whole of Europe – all of Europe – is doing, from Brussels to Germany, the International Energy Agency..., you continue with your ecological sheet. Think about it. They are deeply mistaken and are playing with the bread of many families in Catalonia. You follow your own, you follow your canteens when everyone is rectifying. It is absolutely slick, its energy policy. You don't care if the European Parliament says this is a green, clean and competitive energy. They don't care that hundreds of companies are losing competitiveness and, therefore, losing the possibility of being competitive in international economic markets. In short, his policy is a scarecrow full of prejudices, prepotence and lack of humility. Correct. It's okay. To rule is to correct. They extend the lives of nuclear power, which contribute fifty per cent of the energy – fifty per cent of the energy we consume today – fifty per cent of the energy. Save money and subsidies to prevent the economic destruction of those regions that are going to lead to unemployment and misery with these policies. Eliminate nuclear taxes, an issue that our political group, VOX, has, by the way, brought to the Constitutional Court. Asuman, as the Catalan Energy Observer reminded them the other day, we are not going to meet the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. Land, stop hitting us with hot topics that you yourselves know you're not going to fulfill. Work to minimize the energy dependence of Catalonia, which last year has risen to 84,6_per_cent, according to the same observatory, eh? In short, I do not think we can support any of this motion, because it would be a good thing to have your nuclear closure policy and your policy of playing with the bread of many people. Bad times come – bad times come. Before Christmas you will rectify your policy. You guys are gonna support the thermals. You are going to support nuclear when you see thousands of Catalans, thousands of Catalan companies, have to close, you have to not use gas, electricity by cutting, by reasoning and rationing of electricity supply. Make politics serious. Stop playing to be spokespersons for the Greta girl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.71.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Quim Calatayud has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.72.0	Madam President, deputies, deputies, good morning. This Parliament approved the year 21 a pioneering law to deal with guarantees for the Camp of Tarragona and the Lands of the Ebre energy transition, which, as you know, will involve, among other things, the progress of the nuclear plants of Asco and Vandellòs theoretically – and it is very theoretical – 2030. This law provides for setting up a fund to finance activities of socio-economic development and energy transition to the areas affected by this transformation. We are talking about ninety-nine municipalities, five county councils– Baix Camp, Priorat, Conca de Barberà, Ribera d'Ebre and Terra Alta. To do so, the law– which, I insist, is a pioneer– proposes to allocate twenty per cent of the revenue related to production, storage and transformation activities of nuclear power, and this means an expected endowment of 24_million euros per year– 24_million euros per year. The motion we are debating proposed to move from this twenty to fifty per cent, without there being any circumstance at the moment that we should be advised or advised to change the percentage initially predicted. When you still haven't made use of this initial 20 per cent, you propose to jump to fifty. And why not thirty-five or seventy-two? Possible to do life-threatening pirouettes and jumps, we make the equitable proportionality of the administrations to these territories. From our point of view, what we need to do is to urge the Government of the State to approve a law similar to the one approved in Catalonia, and therefore to complement the EUR 24_million we are talking about. According to counsel Torrent does not do much, the State collects around 300_millions in the year of this type of tax. That's what I need to do. On the other hand, and for what it does to the development of the Nuclear Transition Fund regulation that we are proposed to have in place in this third quarter of 2022... So, surely you already know that you are working and that we do not share this sudden rush: interests of the mayors of the first crown, interests of the mayors of the second crown, interests of the presidents of the district councils, interests of the other actors... I think it is necessary that everyone knows what paper to play. I'm telling you why I was here years ago at these first meetings, which, by the way, managed Economy and now does Business. MIDIT, which comprise two municipalities of the Baix Camp – Vandellós and Pratdip – and one of the Ribera d'Ebre – Tivisa. And why am I talking to them about MIDIT? Therefore, the priority of our group, more than running to develop a regulation, is to achieve that organizations such as the one I have just mentioned are involved and articulate what should be this regulation, prioritizing as much as possible the consent with the agents of the territory: the Chamber of Commerce of Reus, other organizations such as Pimec, Idece, Rovira and Virgili and other elements of the territory, starting mainly for the assemblies and the local councils, which are those who, from the consent, must draw this rule, which, moreover, and above all, will require the leadership of the Generality. We can't fall asleep, but we don't have to rush. And the word, and more in those lands, is consensus– consensus. And lastly, in relation to the third point of the motion: why do we want this consensus? It is intended, therefore, to activate an economic recovery plan of the regions of Ebra and Camp de Tarragona affected by the future shutdown of the nuclear power stations of Ascó and Vandellòs. And, this plan, what has to work? If I may, I will tell you, and I suppose I will not discover any secret: energy transition – energy transition –, reindustrialisation, agri-food sector, new technologies, rural development, sustainability and circular economy. And, above all, don't want to be more alive than you see, that there will be a lot of lives here; there will be a lot of millions, that they give for a lot and a lot for a lot of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.73.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.74.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... very good morning to everyone. Well, today's debate, while not explicitly stated, is a fair transition, a process that we are living in many European territories, and certainly also in the world, where, at this time, as a consequence of the energy transition, your future and your economy are affected. I make different approaches to respect. First of all, what is Europe doing? The European Commission a few years ago created a mechanism which is said to be for the fair transition which is intended and made available to the different states up to 100,000_million euros between 2021 and 2027, destined for those areas where coal mines are tanked, where thermal power plants are tanked, where nuclear power plants are tanked; 100,000_million euros at the disposal of the states. In second place, what does Spain do? The Spanish Government is carrying these funds through the Ministry for the Ecological Transition. Deploys a just transition agreement. Today there are seven in progress, affecting seven autonomous communities. And if you enter the Institute, on the website of the Institute for the Just Transition..., they allocate 550_million euros in 2021 to mechanisms of fair transition – obviously, zero in Catalonia. Of these convenient, two contemplate Garoña and Zorita. Garoña will close the 2012; Zorita will close the 2006. They signed protocols today. Neither the Garoña nor the Sorita, which has been closed for fifteen years, have been signed at these times even the convenient ones. More things that the Spanish State does: to appeal to the Constitutional Court the nuclear impost, the nuclear fund that we approve here in 2015 and that we approve here on 17. As has been said, it collects 300_million euros of ordinary taxes, 468 taxes linked to the residue each year. What are we doing in Catalonia? We have three plants, three nuclear power plants, that lock between 2030 and 2035 – between eight and thirteen years, depending on each reactor. In this Parliament we approved 2015 – we tried it for the first time –..., try to allocate it 6_million euros. We tried again in 2017, and finally we managed to do it in 2021: to allocate 24_million euros to it; until its closure, approximately 300 million euros. What is the Department of Enterprise doing right now? Drafting the regulation, agreeing it with the territories. We had two meetings: one in Tarragona, one in Ascó, talking to him, discussing it with the mayors, with the presidents of the local councils, with the associate bodies. To plant here a regulation that, in short, has a processing similar to that of a decree, that needs six_months, that from here a_me is approved, obviously, is very far from the reality. Catalonia will invest this 300_million euros, and it is about 300_million euros that we will take advantage of to boost this territory. What do socialists do? There they are ruling, in Madrid, after God, fifteen years of shutting down nuclear power plants, they are still waiting to sign the agreements. Seven Spanish State nuclear power plants at these times still in force – seven Spanish State nuclear power plants – and a just transition agreement. In the Valencia Country, in Extremadura, you have the presidency, will they shut down the nuclear power stations in 2027? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In 2018, we asked the PSOE to withdraw the objections presented by the PP before the Constitutional Court. They did not want to withdraw the contention before the Constitutional Court, and, as a result, the TC dropped this project that we are discussing today. It's okay, in politics, that what you do when you're ruling, I assemble a little bit – a little bit – to what you do when you're in opposition. What does the territory say? I would recommend that you read the article that you passed to the Diari de Tarragona publish the territory, the five presidencies of the five affected district councils. And they say: "Catalunya is the first territory in the State that we take responsibility for future post-nuclear generations, and we are proud of it. The Presidencies of the District Councils of Lower Hebrews, the Bank of Hebrews, the Priory, the High Land and the Lower Camp – which are the ones who sign it – "reclaim to the Spanish State that it signifies the agreement of the just transition, and that, if it does not do so, with the same amount that the Generality puts in place to boost the nuclear power to make the transition in these affected territories. You can't go, he gave the fifteen years later... as you're doing to Zorita and Garoña. Let us try, as we are doing in Catalonia, to the Catalan, to advance us for years: 300_millions contributed to the Generality, which are a great opportunity, and the presidencies of the regional councils want to make a cry to optimism to succeed in building a future of dignity for these territories. And, on the percentage to be allocated, the place where in a future debate on the 2023 assumptions we can speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.75.0	So, after the defense of the papers presented, he continues to have the word, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.76.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion from the PSC speaks, even though it does not seem, of energy, of nuclear energy, but to the PSC style. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we have been presenting June, a little more than a month ago, a motion on the energy mix, in which we talk about nuclear energy, with a vision, I must say, different strength from that of the PSC. This young man, that of the PSC, also speaks of questions of economic interest. The motion states that fifty per cent of the resources of the tax are allocated to installations which affect the environment related to production activities, storage and transformation of nuclear power from nuclear origin to the regions of Ebra and Camp de Tarragona, which says that they are the most affected by nuclear energy. Taxes aren't final, they're not taxes either. But these territories, their citizens, need much more than to invest the fifty per cent proposed. This is the initial planning of the PSC, a party that does not govern the Generality at this time, perhaps because its current leader did not want to present himself to the investiture to be president of the Generality in this thirty-year legislature, right? , but a party that governs the conjunct of Espanya, together with its parent party, the PSOE of Pedro Sánchez, and Unidad Podemos, those who represent in this Parliament, therefore, the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Podemos, in a context of energy deficiency, energy dependence on the outside, in which the diplomatic incapacity of the PSOE of Sánchez has placed us in a situation more than delicate, after creating a difficult conflict with Algeria, which was the main supplier of natural gas of Espanya. The formula that the socialists defend is to dismantle nuclear power stations, and it seems even as soon as possible, better, to look to make box, now, as much as possible. The record we're talking about the turn of fifty percent of the electricity consumed in Catalonia. I have already said that the Socialist Party's vision of nuclear energy is very different from that of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. But I cannot be denied this: that, today, around fifty per cent of the electricity produced in Catalonia is from nuclear power stations. We believe that in the current situation and the one that sees us above, by the work and misfortune of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, respects the energy dependence, the deficiency of the current Spanish energy mix, what should be proposed by the PSC is to maintain the activity of nuclear power plants in Catalonia, those of Vandellòs and Ascó, as at least until 2045. This would be the best proposal, the one that should have brought us a party that wants to have governance responsibilities in Catalonia and that holds them to the Government of Spain. The Socialist Party has them all to the Government of Spain, because the current Government of Spain is the result of the personal will of the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who has done what he wanted, even though he has done all the contrary of what he had said he would do. He also proposed, this young man, that the Government of the Generality approve before the end of the year the Nuclear Transition Fund regulation. From the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we believe that the confidence of the PSC respects the effective application of this Nuclear Transition Fund is very little attached to what we have. We don't have people or trust, in this Government of the Generality and in its nuclear transition plan, but the PSC seems to be much more interested in looking for the formula to get caught up in it. Maybe that's why they want it to be with all the territorial agents for their management and governance. But they think that, for what it does to the southern regions and specifically to the two regions in which there are nuclear power stations – Baix Camp and Ribera d'Ebre –, the Government of the Generalitat normally goes to its own. At a time to pull for the right, they don't even care about their mayors and governors, so, whatever they say, this plan will be short and will follow above all the interest of the own government of the Generality, even though it's some sort of schema that you call the "territory," but it's the citizens who see and work there. Therefore, I approve of what I finally approve, we are very afraid that it will be paper full, as many of the resolutions and motions approved in this Parliament. So we have the South Tarragona regions as we do. Perhaps this is the third point of the motion, when it speaks of historical hardship and calls for an economic recovery plan with concrete timetables and investments, something that I myself have repeatedly asked, since I was a member of this Parliament, since the present legislature, almost two years ago, as the trade cams of Tortosa, Reus and Tarragona have done. Words, words, but very few facts, and so we are. With this government's lack of compromises, so are the Tarragons and, more concretely, the Lands of the Hebrews. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.77.0	And finally, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.78.0	Thank you very much, President. We will give support to points 1 and 3, which are those that demand, therefore, the most reversal to the lands of the Jew, as well as fifty per cent of the resources that come from the installations of nuclear power plants. And, obviously, we can't give support to the rest of the young man, who talks about dismantling or a transition to a place where, frankly, I don't think we'll ever get there. In fact, I am absolutely convinced that the year 2040 is not that there will be no fewer nuclear power stations in Spain, but we will surely have more. Among other things, not only because of the fact that the European Union has declared nuclear energy green, but because it is obvious – and the current energy crisis so demonstrates – that the energy strategy based on liquidating Spain's nuclear energy is a suicide – suicide – strategy, which makes us absolutely..., or leaves us in absolute helplessness from this point of view. And, besides, it's suicide – and that's what I've explained many times here – especially when we have to bear in mind that France – I've repeated many times – has fifty-eight nuclear power plants – a few years from now will be seventy-two. We share the risks, because there are no frontiers in heaven, and, in change, the benefits only come from them, which have energy sufficiency, which we do not have. That's the path, that's the only path. And I think the step the European Union is giving this ratification, and for countries like Spain, it will be very important for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.79.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, Mrs Silvia Paneque has the word to say about the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.80.0	[[Pause.]] One, two, three..., now. Yes, she said: "Thank you very much, President. I will try to give an answer to Mr. Alonso, who has made here a diatribe about political strategy. I humbly tell you, I don't know if you're willing to give a lot of lessons on political strategy. And I'll tell you that environmental taxes are done. VOX, using his language, that I wouldn't use it, but emulating him... his poses and plates don't impress me. Today we were not debating whether or not nuclear, yes, nuclear, no. We were debating whether we would revert resources to the lands of southern Catalonia, and today you have voted no and you will vote no to this issue. This is what we were discussing and this is what you are going to vote on today. [[Some applause.]] By the way, his admirer Bruce Springsteen is called "the finder against climate change; listen to him a little bit more, see if this... [[Rialles and some applause.]] Mr. Calatayud... - You're not there. He set me up, because you, of course, take the numbers... ah, I'm sorry, take the numbers, don't you? , which recapitulates the State in terms of waste management, but clearly, there is a cost, too, of managing waste. But I repeat them, to you and to Mr. Saved, when they talk about the numbers of the State... Mirin, in nuclear waste, there are basically three lines. One, linked to Interior for municipalities of radius of thirty_kilometers. Here, fifteen municipalities of Catalonia out of forty-four awarded; eleven years– eleven years, already– giving resources to these municipalities. On residues and exploitation in municipalities in a radius of deu_quilòmetres, 2_million euros per year for each area of influence. About dismantling and environmental restoration, since 2015–seven years–, 1_million euros each year. Therefore, you say: "What does Catalonia do? No, what Catalonia does, no; what this government does, Mr. Salvadó. What are you doing? You deny resources to some already poor and poor communities that have been solidary with all of Catalonia. That's what you're voting for today. This is what this government of Catalonia is defending, before our total and absolute misunderstanding. The Government of Spain carries many years betting for this fair transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.81.0	So, after the debate, I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place once we finish the next point of the order of the day, the twenty point of the order of the day, the next question to the government about the protection of the coastal environment. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the protection of the coastal environment]] [[302-00184/13]] It was presented by the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. And you have the word, to introduce you, Mr. Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.82.0	Thank you, President. Well, as we did at the inquiry the last day... the Catalan coast today is still patenting, so the seventy years of predatory urbanism, developmentist, linked to an outdated economic model, extractive and negationist. And in the midst of climate emergence this Parliament cannot allow any of the ways that all continue to be the same. Everything we don't preserve today will be destroyed in the name of a false progress. It's not worth an apology anymore. It is necessary to change the laws to protect all the roads that remain on the coast that are not yet evil. It is necessary to restore those altered spaces and return them to their original state. They cannot pass private economic interests over general interest, which in these moments is nothing more than fighting against the climate emergency, fighting to improve the quality of life of citizens and those who come after us. Now it's time to say enough; enough to old and new urban projects. Now it's time to pull asphalt and totxo back to its natural state the Catalan coast. As the lawyer Eduard de Ribot says, who benefits from pursuing evil and destroying the landscape and the forests of the coast? Who benefits from continuing to build constantly and infinitely the coastal municipalities, such as Begur? Who benefits from continuing to authorize penya-segates shales or destroying forests? You know, we're clear that this benefits a few, the old ones, those who wear seventy years destroying our territory. And who benefits from the law or reforms that we propose with this young man today? Everyone, the people who live there, the people of Catalonia. And that's what we want and what we're proposing in this young man. We ask that the Litoral Conservator is believed as soon as possible, which is already up a year late, according to the law; to guarantee a protection and order plan of the coast that incorporates elements for the preservation and recovery of the integrity of coastal ecosystems to unrigidize, restore and conserve the coast. We also propose to suspend the master plans, the new urban master plans, like, for example, the Three Xemeneies, before the risk of erosion and flooding, always preserving the first two hundred meters from the shore of the sea. Illustrate urban management plans – what ecological entities demand – with the aim of protecting the coast more effectively and coastal ecosystems of high environmental and landscape value is what this Parliament should do. This is why we propose to include in these urban plans all plans that have been partially implemented, especially those that have an impact on some area of natural interest or have wetlands or are found to be partially protected by the law of costs. Also include all urban plans where the presence of protected species is detected, inform why some urban plans are excluded from the review, expand the criteria and information on ecological connectivity and protect them even more. And, as we do not have the skills at present, we also add to this motion to urge the Government of the State to give effect to the minimum protection of thirty per cent of the marine surface of the Mediterranean Sea in Catalonia, and, above all, to create the national park of the Costa Brava gun systems, because it is one of the most productive and highly biodiversity areas of the whole Mediterranean, a park necessary to mitigate the effects of climate change. Besides, this sea trotter that we ask you to protect at these times consists of two marine protected spaces, two separate spaces, but all protected. And what we need, in this natural park that we propose, is to create this functional connectivity so that these protected spaces, so, function as a sun and protect this biodiversity that Europe also asks us, as a priority, to be protected. Moreover, one of these areas is a fishing fence area, agreed with the fisherman's own sector, and protected, because it is a habitat, and which ensures the preservation of many species that are threatened in our esteemed Mediterranean. That is why we are presenting these proposals to you, and we hope, therefore, that you will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.83.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.84.0	Thank you, President. Members, the members of the CUP are now presenting a motion aimed at protecting the coastal environment. However, the narrative we are presented in its measures is mostly interventionist, counterproductive to the public interest, with many plans, strategies and new chiringuitos, but with few concrete actions that do not involve more public spending and more regulations. We know that public policies must be evaluated for their results and not for their intentions. You are constantly echoing supposed good intentions, but you are committed to putting on the table many solutions that, because of their lack of effectiveness and their harmful character for society, have already passed to better life a long time ago. Let's see. They propose that a full monograph on climate change be held every year. CUP gentlemen, fewer sterile talks and debates on your climate ideology and more concrete actions to ensure our energy sovereignty and emission neutrality; concrete actions such as support for nuclear energy, as we have been saying since the first day we entered this Parliament and as they have already recommended from the Commission and the European Parliament. In this sense, I take the opportunity to remind you that we have applied in the Constitutional Court the tax of the Generalitat that punishes nuclear power by endangering thousands of jobs and increasing the day-to-day cost of families and businesses in Catalonia. This is the difference between useful politics and politics based on delirium, ideology and unreason. We intend to create a new chiringuito, the Conservatori del Litoral, which, of course, collects part of its budget line through the tourist rate. With a crisis around the corner, you can think of nothing but to fry us to taxes and create more placement agencies for the progressive and communist caste of this region, that is, for you. We intend to create a map of good and bad municipalities based on their tourist pressure and their municipal planning. For what? To follow the indication of those localities that move away from their dogmas and to force them to accept a regulation that will not take into account the material sustenance of the families of the area and that will simply serve to bring more misery to the local communities of the coast of Catalonia. In addition, they continue to call for plans and strategies that only delay the implementation of possible urgent measures. Gentlemen of the CUP, do you really want to worry about the coastal environment? Stop imposing ideology and listen to local solutions that take into account the material needs of workers and businesses in the area. Who is going to worry more about the coast: the local families on the coast, who every day open the blind of their business, or the supposed experts we have in this Parliament? They help the market to enable economic operators to internalise responsibilities and costs so as to reduce their damage to the Catalan coast. We have repeated it many times, but... spending more does not mean spending better, and interventionism usually does the only thing it does is aggravate the problem it tries to solve. In conclusion, it is a motion with some acceptable measure, but with many toasts to the sun, a lot of ideology, a lot of waste and few real solutions to real problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.85.0	On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, has the word, after all, the MP Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.86.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. As we have said so far, our coast today is in a limited situation, because Catalonia is the result of a dynamic of urbanization, a very intense process that we have had to finish the last few years and that have mostly placed the concentration of the population in the Mediterranean of our country. This is a fact that can be seen for all of us, and much more so when we speak of percentages, since of the seventy municipalities in Catalonia that are made in the sea..., these represent a five percent of the surface that concentrates neither more nor less than forty percent of our population. I am strengthening this concept with a very visual example of how the night picture per satellite on the Catalan coast, which shows us the intensity of the night luminosity by drawing a very clear and clear strip that represents the concentration of human activity in our country. This phenomenon is known as coastalization, and is the result of various factors such as metropolitization and the increase in tourism and the sea. With this visit to the retina – percentages and magnitude –, I want to start this intervention backwards, and I want to start with a conclusion, and it is that the situation on our coast today is dramatic, especially as it progresses in its degradation. And this is a very devastating arrival for future generations and it points to us as responsible in a past of mismatch and assaulting our coastline. And it brings us to a single exit: the only exit is to pull back, reverse; reverse is our responsibility, today, to the coast of Catalonia. And it is for this reason that, in order to reduce the risks and mitigate the effects of the so-called coasting, for a future is very important regular, regular and order the uses of soil, especially in the coastal strip. And to do so without losing sight that until now we must avoid a complex legal and competitive mark on the Catalan coast. Because it is the Spanish Constitution that attributes to the state the ownership of the domain, and only leaves Catalonia the urban regulation of the soil. And now, in a very purposeful way and in order to move forward, I propose to you the actions that, like those responsible for this coast, we have to take a long time. In the first place, as we have said before, I stress the importance of protecting the soil regime in order to preserve the coastal areas affected above all by natural and anthropogenic risks from the process of urban transformation. Obviously, in the second place, I also retrace the importance of moving forward in a management that is absolutely inclusive of the coast. In the summer of 2020 the Parliament approved the law of protection and order of the coast. This is our way, because it contains the arrangements that will allow us to overcome the sectoral and competitive fragmentation, and now you plan to develop the protection and management plan of the Catalan coast as the urban director, which we have in the process of redaction today. We need to ensure that this coastal protection and management plan incorporates elements of preservation and recovery of the integrity of coastal ecosystems, as well as measures to cope with adaptation and, above all, to cope with climate change. I highlight strategic actions in conjunction, which are the following: listing inventories of natural resources and standards affecting the coast; also making use plans; acquiring land alone, buying land; carrying out concerted actions between various administrations; establishing specific standards; involving citizenship, and providing real and specific financing. For all this, the plan has to prioritize the search and knowledge agenda of coastal control; it has to model scenes and evaluate in a catalog the solutions for all and each of the various cases. Because this is a specific planning for the management of the land-based maritime public domain and which, at the same time, provides for instruments such as financing and creation of the Conservator of the Catalan Litoral for this legislature. As I said to the beginning, we have a lot of work to do, a lot of work to do, to stop the effects clearly visible on our coast, and to work in an integrated way and to do what we don't like to do to anyone, because we have to regulate, we have to stop, we have to reverse, we have to step down, we have to compensate. For all this, we need to move towards integrated coastal management within the framework of a territorial policy guided by sustainability and equity, and to understand that this is, above all, a political issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.87.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.88.0	President, vice president, deputies, deputies... well, here, a spokesperson for the girl, Greta, they will talk to you for five minutes. [[remorse of the voice]] That's who's leaving me. She's a long man – she's before, vice president, of an intervention by the people of VOX –..., well, a long man on the coast, and I think she's dense, long, complex. And, therefore, I want to begin by thanking the work of the deputy Cristina Casol and of the deputy Dani Cornellà in the will of understanding and reaching agreements, which will surely lead us to vote almost in favour of the totality of the motion, except for a point and a distance. The motion is based on the conclusions of the CADS study "A coastal boundary and climate-emergency context, and therefore leads us to vote in favour of the first point, that what it proposes is to make a monographic ple on climate change, as it cannot be in any other way, and we will vote in favour of it. The rest of the young man thinks he's basically structured on three axes. The first is to create, boost and finance an indispensable tool to safeguard and recover the most degraded, more threatened, urbanised and artificialized part of the coastline, and, therefore, to recover it through the public purchase of land, which is the Conservatori del Litoral, a tool already provided for in Law 8/2020, and which we believe is, in full participation process, to ensure that the coming year will be created and that it will be endowed with the assumptions of 2023. But not only that, but we are opening the door to studying that in a future some activities that are mainly and intensively developing on the coast and on the Catalan coast, such as tourism activity, which has a positive economic activity for the country, but which also has, as a result of its intense character, a high impact and negative externalities towards the natural environment..., that from this activity also can, with the touristic canon..., a way of financing towards the Conservatori del Litoral. The second eix would be on the planning tools. And here we have made a synthesis effort in important transactions, because, instead of creating new planning tools..., taking into account all the existing ones, what we have worked on is ensuring that those planning tools that we are working on enclose the preservation elements, recovering the integrity of the coastal ecosystems for rigidity, restoration and conservation, as well as necessary adaptation measures to cope with climate change. Here we agree on most of the issues, and that is the point where we would certainly vote against, because we also agreed that the PDUs that affect the two-hundred-metres to touch the coast line enclosing these questions, but you wanted to keep it to include the PDU of the Three Xemeneies, which we believe is strategic for the country. And, in this sense, we can't accompany them, but we guarantee them that, for the rest, we will continue to work, because we agree. And, finally, the third axis, that is, that the State, in the fund, does the same: that the State, in its planning tools, in the strategic plan, incorporates the same criteria of restoration and recovery from the coast and coast that we are self-obliging in the planning and planning at the Catalan level. We also ask you that in the recovery policies the result of the regression of the coast is no longer used very aggressive systems, such as the dredging of the seabed, or that it is already beginning to put thread to the needle in those projects that follow the solution to the affectation to the infrastructures that, the result of the rise of the sea level, therefore, are affected, like the R1. It gives the user the opportunity to listen in depth to the Commission for Climate Action, with the non-specialist or parliamentary appearance, but with biology doctors, such as Puri Canals and Carles Ibáñez, in a comparison to the Commission for the Republican Left, and with the support of other groups, and which, basically, makes the following radiography of the coast: it is a coastal area that is over-urbanized– the fifty-ninth per cent of the coast is urbanized, and, if we travel the head of Creus and the delta of the coast, it is an area that is over-urbanized–the fifty-ninth per cent of the coast is urbanized, and, if we travel the head of Creus and the delta of the coastal area, it is an area of the near-urban area, a high-level area. So, and finally... I'd like to quote a quote from the people who appear in the Climate Action Commission that I think sums up very well what we live on the Catalan coast. They said: "The one who lives on the Catalan coast is a tsunami in slow motion. And, therefore, I think that this should make us reflect, analyze and hear. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] What we have done wrong – I finish, President – is how we have done and, above all, how we have to do the right way we have to do for a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.89.0	Next, after the turn of the defense of the papers presented, to fix his position has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance, the deputy Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.90.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, MPs, MPs... As explained by this Faristol, we have a coastal law that guides and defines management lines and insists on the need for integrated management of our coastal area. I don't think anyone can escape in their analysis that an important part of the country's economic activity is in the first strip, the five hundred_metres of coast endins, right? , and this has a significant impact in terms of GDP and employment. We already see the importance of the economic value represented by this band, and therefore the high tensions to which you have been exposed and to which you are still submissive: excessive consumption of only to devote it, in good part, to habitat of second residence; an oversized park which cannot be absorbed by the market and which, moreover, has a perverse effect, because it strains the prices of habitation to the moose, which prevents many people from accessing, in this case, a habitation, right? , to a decent habitation. Now, from our point of view, it's not just a matter of identifying problems as the law of the coast, or as we've also listened to a good part of the speeches we've listened to so far, is it? What we need is to regulate actions – and this one we believe is the way – through a new law of territories. We need a new law of territories in Catalonia, and not going to build pieces on the current law in every law of fiscal and financial measures accompanying assumptions. I believe that the country deserves an open, frank debate among all the parliamentary groups, among all the institutions of the country, to address a new law of the territory that the gods, fifteen, twenty years from this country. For this reason, and from this point of view, we agree that, from the point of view of the law of the sea which has now been approved, a couple of years ago in this Parliament, a new law of territories which regulates some of the questions which have been raised since this Faristol was decided upon. We also fully agree to hold an annual debate on climate change mitigation and adaptation measures. Actually, that's what the Catalan climate change law approved in 2017 tells us; we're at 2022 and there hasn't been a debate of these characteristics yet. Now, this debate – I remind all Members and all Members – must go ahead with the precept reports of the climate change expert committee. I, you know what's going on? That since our parliamentary group we have the feeling – maybe it's a subjective feeling, huh? – that the former advisor to Territori and Medi Ambient, or his team, is not over-created by the Committee of Experts on Climate Change, and that the current advice to Climate Action is not created either. Why? So because the Climate Change Expert Committee, as the law sets it, is an independent committee. It's an independent committee, and therefore I don't know if it's annoying that you make preceptive reports and put these questions in the hands of all parliamentary groups before it's raised in an open debate in the Parliament of Catalonia. Now, totally agree, we believe that these debates are to be produced, as fixed by the Catalan climate change law. I, respect some of the questions we will not support, the issue of R1 and National II, right? , which may be an example of some of the adaptation problems that have a part of Catalonia's territory respecting the effects of climate change. The Government of Spain has already commissioned vulnerability studies of these infrastructures and others, and probably what we need to do is to apply adaptation measures to these infrastructures that can cope in the future with the effects of climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.91.0	Then, it has the word, the name of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, the deputy Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.92.0	Thank you very much. Sometimes there are interventions that one thinks if... that it is hardly necessary to bring the age to come to Parliament to call an activist for the climate of « Greta girl. I mean, mature, you. I think climate activism in this country [[some applause]] and in many countries of the world it is far more mature than its interventions in this Parliament. And, therefore, listen to the children, the primary ones, that most of them are more mature and have more information than you, and they prepare their interventions better than you. [[Widow's remorse.]] I think it is obvious that the coast is one of the most fragile ecosystems for the situation we are living in, and that, therefore, the climate change will particularly affect it. We'll have time like Gloria the most common in our country, we'll have regression from the coast line and flooding coastal areas. We'll lose platters in this country, too, because there'll come a time when we can't go on carrying surra to repopulate our platters, and we'll end up losing them. And there will be changes in the sea currents and there will be changes in the erosion of the beaches that will make our entire coastal ecosystem vulnerable. The third report on climate change explains this very clearly: the seventy_per_cent– three_quarters_parts, practically – of the Catalan coast is vulnerable or very vulnerable to the effects of climate change. And, in the effects that we all know – from rising sea level, from climbing the coast – we have the effects of urban pressure. It was said before a Member who preceded me: the coast of our country, the coast of our country is a sis, a set_per_cent of all the territory of Catalonia, and there is almost half of the country, so as not to speak, obviously, of that it is an area of high economic activity, of high tourist activity. And, therefore, we have, in a small territory of our country that has a great climatic and ecological pressure already on the table, besides, a great urban and economic pressure. Among other things, we have more than a hundred thousand planned habitats on the cost line; we have infrastructures, as previously mentioned by Terrades, in vulnerable areas such as R1, not to mention the airport's expansion, and we have points of special vulnerability, such as the Ebro Delta, not to mention the Llobrega Delta, which has returned a_kilometre in the last century. And we have a problem: the sixty percent of our coast is urbanized in the first hundred meters, which are the most vulnerable for the regress of plagiarism. In fact, the climate change report said that only one twenty per cent of the beaches have space to back off; the others will be encapsulated between a sea that increases its level and is eating the beach and the already urbanized area, and this evidence that we need to intervene. We need to intervene in order to preserve the Catalan coast, which is also an economic activity, and we need to intervene in order to preserve the coastal zone, which is so important to our country. And we have instruments. We have the law of climate change, but above all, we have the need to deploy it to what it already contemplates, and to what it contemplates the law of protection of the coast. First of all – and we fully share this motion – in the Litoral Observatory, a tool that we must use to diagnose, plan and develop public coastal protection policies, such as the coastal protection and management plans, such as the climate change adaptation strategies, which must allow us to lower the current tension on the Catalan coast from all the pressures that I am responding to. And, obviously, we need to intervene to reduce the urban pressure on the coast of Catalonia, and there is no more option, because this excessive urban pressure accentuates the degradation of our coast, and then, because we will have an urban problem in a future not far beyond what we have already built on the coast..., and think how we preserve it and think how we preserve the cities of the coast. And, therefore, as at least today we need to set up a moratorium on the coast of Catalonia in the first two hundred metres, as the young man sets up, so that, at least, we do not make the problem bigger, because we will not cheat for years to have this problem on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.93.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.94.0	Vice President, President, Members, Members... The CUP is obviously bringing us a proposal to protect the coast that, somehow, if we see what we've been discussing this morning, we might even get into a series of connections. Today we have talked about territories, and the first reflection that we should do is, precisely, that we need – this is indeed – a territorial joint debate on the different aspects that we need to change and we need to order, or that we should have ordered, in Catalonia. And that's for me basic and it's obvious, but to us – and that I don't think anyone will be surprised – they won't find us in this... – let me express it –, this neoludism of the CUP, this, say, will decrease, reverse... Many euphemisms have been used. I really like this concept of neoluddism, that movement that cremated machines in the midst of the Industrial Revolution because it left a lot of work..., of course, a lot of people, a lot of hard work. That in the end he found out that he wasn't, that he wasn't, but that this was the way to move forward, wasn't it? This neoludism brings us many times to different questions. You were talking to us... Mr. Cornella was talking about "destroying, right? – he has commented – and to me his sincerity seems totally, therefore, respectable; in a way, to change the economic model to make this supposed transition, but to me what is never clear to me is..., to be very clear the measures that you propose to destroy, to stop growing or even to decrease, but what do we do with the tourism sector? What about the tourism industry? What do we do with the workers of our city and coastal communities who are dedicated, precisely, to this service? When one looks at the report that was referred to before, when it is directly speaking, then, of a vulnerable sector before the climate change..., this report says, it also recognizes that the eleven per cent – it's more of what five and five years ago – of Catalonia's gross domestic product is tourism. And it is obvious that nothing is proposed to make this transition for this sector, because it will not be possible to complete this one-day change for another. And the only arguments I see on the report are that the sector is vulnerable, because there are problems and there are problems with plagiarism. Obviously, yes, but many years ago there have been problems, so to speak, of decline and decrease of the plagiarism. In fact, we could say that it has been far more than decades that this dynamic reality of coastal movement has passed and that human action has influenced the natural environment. To say this is simply to say that the evolution of man has been this, and that his relationship to the environment is this. And it also says that there will be changes in temperatures and that the tropicalization of our environment will either cause or cause the sector to remain uncompetitive, and therefore, as it is not competitive, we need to decrease, because no one will be needed to donate services anymore. So, basically, it's a tremendous strategy that doesn't lead us to give a direct answer to what we will do with the wealth generated by the eleven percent of our activity in Catalonia. There's no answer to that. On the rest, I think that, in the end... we, of course, believe that there is an obvious change in the climate, we know that they will be measured..., and we will vote in favour or at least we will not vote against some measures that go in the line of protection and order of the coast. That's right, but we can't get into all those that they do or defend is that better to grow, better to move forward, is to cremate machines; the better to move forward and change our society is neo-luddism or luddism. We're in this, so they won't find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.95.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.96.0	Thank you, President. When it comes to the coast to Catalonia, between the « field that can of the decade of the sixties and the one that you propose today from the CUP there is a healthy intermediate point. Indeed, only a walk through some areas of Cape Salou or certain municipalities of the Costa Brava to prove that, effectively, in Catalonia, and not only in Catalonia, they were made authentic beasts during decades. Now, what the CUP is proposing today in its vast majority of cases is the impossibility of doing anything on the coast, which is completely different. The first question I would like to raise is that these kinds of speeches, when they come from the political arena, always end up with enormous hypocrisy, don't they? I remember, when I was at the Assembly of Tarragona, that the two directors of Initiative for Catalonia, of the old Initiative for Catalonia, were radically opposed to building on the coast, but after both – both – live – oh, surprise! – the first line of the sea. But I don't have to go that far, to my stage as governor. Today, the famous urbanization Sa Riera de Begur – Sa Riera de Begur –..., this one didn't do Franco, they pushed her together for Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana – oh, by chance! So did I. Even some of its members bought an apartment there. I say this because it is a very practical practice of ours in the Catalan nationalist bourgeoisie: the fact that an apartment is bought on the coast they want to ban building on the coast, it is not the case that someone, finally, botifler is likely to be installed on its side, is it not? In short, the band of being a radically hypocritical speech is false, too. I'll explain. In Catalonia, on the coast we have no lack of regulation – I insist, assuming that for decades they were made authentic beasts –; in fact, we have had in some excessive stages of regulation, hyperregulation, which made it materially impossible to do some things. The historical coincidence, in its moment, of the Xarxa Natura 2000, of the plan director of the coster system, plus the own legislation of the Ministry of Costs or of Medi Ambient, depending on the cases, more..., added to what you want to do, makes practically impossible no longer only an urban issue, but develops any type of business, as they have denounced many professional times of tourism. And the second question is that it is false: in Catalonia we have no lack of observers, we have excess of observers. We need money for other types of policies. To make now a conservationist of the coast, I am very sorry, but I do not think that this is a presuppositional priority for Catalonia. In short, we will vote against all this part of the motion. And in points 9 and 10, which have various subparties..., in 9 we will abstain, and in 10, in its total practice, also, basically because we find the mass interventionists, but, as at least, it is planted its wording without this type of ideological prejudice that we denounce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.97.0	Thank you very much. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.98.0	Well, thank you. First of all, I'm going to make a technical statement. In point 1, that the proposal would be to agree on the need to celebrate each year a monographic ple according to Article 155... – ai –, 156 of the Rules of Parliament... [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] I've been looking at you, haven't I? Excuse me. [[The timer laughs.]] About the climate change, yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect. No, it's for legal technical issues. [[Widow's remorse.]] Okay. Not 155, huh? [[Rialles.]] And, well, in reference to what they said, so, a very good negotiation and understanding with Cristina Casol, of Junts, and Eugeni Villalbí, of Esquerra Republicana. I mean, we've understood, and most of the questions have been traded or accepted, because they're in line with what we've been proposing. Yes, it is true that the point of the PDU of the Three Xemeneias..., it is obvious that we wanted to maintain it, because we are a project that we cannot accept because of the speculation that is behind it and because a part of these lands are floodable. And it's a reality that we have to say, and we have to continue defending that we have to put a stop to this three-day PDU. Also, obviously, give thanks to the CADS and its report"The coast to the limit, because, obviously, it has served us and serves us as a reference to work the whole issue of the coast; and to the ecological entities of the territory, who are actually doing this work not only for defense, but also for defense of the whole coast, of the whole coast, and are constantly warning us of these dangers. [[Widow's remorse.]] For example, here we have SOS Costa Brava...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.99.0	Wait a minute, Congressman. Quiet, and please. We ask for silence because the speaker who speaks at the last can do so on condition, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.100.0	So SOS Costa Brava tells us: "Here you have the fifty species and landscapes of the Costa Brava in peril, and it is an authentic aberration, but this is repeated across the Catalan coast and the Catalan Countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.101.0	All right. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into digital policies (cont'd)]] [[302-00177/13]] So, when the debate is over, we shall proceed, at the same time, to the vote on the motions which were tabled this morning, which are items 16 to 20 of the order of the day. The texts of the motions put to the vote incorporate the papers, the transactional papers admitted to the proceedings, and now, as has just been said, a technical statement formulated in voice to the Plenary, for Article 156 – yes, not 155. [[The president laughs.]] We begin by voting on the motion following the inquiry into digital policies. Let's vote, first of all, points 1, 2, 6, 8 and 14. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 122 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9 was approved, with 117 votes in favour and 13 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved by 130 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran (continuation)]] [[302-00179/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the strategy of the future for the eve of the High Pyrenees and Aran. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 17 votes in favour and 113 votes against. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 57 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3a_a was approved, with 115 votes in favour and 15 votes against. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b_is approved, with 120 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 49 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 66 abstentions. We're voting for point 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5a_a was approved, with 130 votes in favour. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_is approved, with 122 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. We vote for points 5. and 5.d. The vote begins. Points 5.c and 5.d were approved, with 120 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting now for the point six encapsulation. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 107 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 13 abstentions. We're voting points 6.a. and 6.d. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 130 votes in favour. We're voting point 6.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 47 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 68 abstentions. We're voting point 6.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 125 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. We're voting point 6. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 120 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the AP-7 highway collapses (cont'd)]] [[302-00180/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the AP-7 collapses. We begin by voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 51 votes in favour, 71 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. We're voting points 6.a and 6.b. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 58 votes in favour, 62 votes against and 10 abstentions. Let's vote points 6.c and 6.d. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 49 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 18 abstentions. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 67 votes in favour and 63 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were not approved, with 59 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories belonging to Asco and Vandellòs (continuation)]] [[302-00178/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the creation of a nuclear transition fund just with the territories of Asco and Vandellòs. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 57 votes in favour, 73 votes against. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 54 votes in favour and 76 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 57 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 63 abstentions. And now we vote on points 3a and 3b. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 112 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the protection of the coastal environment (continuation)]] [[302-00184/13]] Finally, we vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the protection of the coastal environment. Let's vote, first of all, points 4 and 5. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 112 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 16 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 117 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 3 abstentions. We vote for points 9.a, 9.b and 9.f. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 79 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 36 abstentions. We're voting point 9.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 112 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 3 abstentions. We vote for points 9.d and 9.e. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 79 votes in favour, 48 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting 10th point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 79 votes in favour and 51 votes against. We're voting 10b point now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 105 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now at 10.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 79 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting for the 10d point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 112 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for the 10th point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 79 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 8 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 111 votes in favour, 18 against and one person who did not vote. We suspend the session until two-quarters and a half-quarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.102.0	Let's start the twenty-one point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the international political situation and the right to self-determination]] [[302-00181/13]] The motion following the Government's inquiry into the international political situation and the right to self-determination. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia, and has the word to make the presentation to him by Mr. Francesc of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.103.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Make a couple of weeks, fifteen days, when the question I asked you began, recalled that sentence that Nicola Sturgeon said to justify why they had re-sorted a date to make a new reference. And she said, "I was screened a year ago as Scottish Prime Minister because a majority of the Scottish Parliament is still betting on independence, and that's why I'm proposing a new date. Obviously, it refers to the successive major coughs in the Scottish Parliament that make this new date possible: October 19, 2023. The question is: if Scotland does this they have lost the reference of the 14th, what shouldn't Catalonia have done, what won? The difference between Catalonia and Scotland, in fact, is the difference between Spain and the United Kingdom, and the difference has a name, which is repression. What has changed in the Scottish independent speech and leadership all this time? Just the nose. The difference is repression. And it's not a toilet; it's a concrete matter, it's a fact. What made the 17th referendum possible was the repression. The political leaders we went together now are divided. Independence in Parliament, which was determined and coordinated, is now certainly divided; until the last time we voted on a referendum, one voted for it, the other voted against it and the other abstained. Reference entities were well coordinated; now the coasts. And civil society, which is, because it has not deserted anyone, is disappointed, a tired hair. So, if the difference is repression, we're also issuing the message that repression works, and we can't afford this message, because it makes independence impossible for us. And, paradoxically, we agree, we have conceded that there is only a future, and it is a future of independence. And this next young man has a main objective, which is, in fact, the only one that deals with us, which is to position the Parliament of Catalonia on the side of the Scottish Parliament and also to give support to the Scottish Government, which proposed this new date to decide its future. But we also want to take note of the lesson: if we are convinced that our future is going through the construction of a clean and progressive country, a happy country, if we have majorities, and we have them, we do not have the right to postpone or ban independence; we do not have the right to lose any energy in small and useless struggles, partyists. The Scottish example is the search for consensus from those who know where they're going, regardless of where they're coming from. But not only is the Scottish example also the example of European determination, without cracks. I am sure that they do not consider the European project to be a perfect project, but they will bet on the cent_per_cent. It is also the determination to participate without doubt in the debate and in world geopolitics. They have no doubt about positioning themselves in relation to the war in Ukraine with symbolic and absolutely concrete bets. They have even dedicated substantial parties to the defense of Ukraine. And it is also certain, in the end, that they continue to look for an intelligent confrontation, in which they will play, with complete certainty, with the proposal to make a reference given another time and, if necessary, a bet for a plebiscite call. For all this, from Juntes to Catalunya we propose you to give from this Parliament all the support to the Scottish road to independence. And, on the points that you have presented to us, thank the Member Serret, because we have understood very well, it has been very easy to agree with what you have proposed, because in a certain way it is also drawn and it is wonderful that we defend the respective political formations on this issue. And in Citizens, we obviously couldn't accept your question because... now I'm going to try to justify it, but it seemed to us that, more than a question, it was a new motion that we would have to put to the vote when you asked and proposed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.104.0	Thank you very much. So, then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.105.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Mr Dalmases, we will be back with a new motion on self-determination, on repression, on the issues that have engulfed Catalan politics for many years now, if not a decade ago. Today we talked about self-determination, about judicializing, ultimately, the terms on which separatist parties always make their political speech. It is true that, in this sense, I have to admit that, honestly, let's say, there is exhaustion of material everywhere; between the separatist or independenceist world – that each one does not say it as it pleases – also between the constitutionalist world – we do not deceive ourselves. Here is a loop, a melancholic loop, in which Catalonia has been buried for many years, and it is clear that you will continue with your baton and we will continue to give our answer with the arguments that we believe most appropriate. It is true that I cannot avoid, when we have a new motion of these characteristics, remember the famous phrase of the President of the First Spanish Republic, the Catalan Estanislau Figueras, which you all know, that I will allow myself to reproduce meaning damage that the President can call me to order to say procacies, but I remember the phrase of the "seniors, or lords, I will be frank: I am up to the hills of all of us. Surely, I'm more of a fan of all of you than of the rest, but in any case, I'm clear that the speech is overly repeated, extremely repeated. For this reason, Mr Dalmases, when you come out here to make a speech to speak of self-determination, to speak of repression, etc., I cannot help but think of the controversy that surrounds you these days and surrounds the President of the Parliament; I cannot help remembering what the deputy director of the program FAQS, TV3, has to do with an attempt to coerce, with an attempt to prevent or harm freedom, freedom of press, freedom of information – if they want, in order not to escape the term of the motion: information self-determination –, the information self-determination of a TV3 program, which, when an interview is done that is uncomfortable with the president of this chamber, the president of this room has at her side a place where the journalist is under the direction of a program. In democracy, this is absolutely unacceptable. It is intolerable, the one who has been through these days, a truly pitiful fighting episode, intolerable in a healthy democracy, as you have starred. And I'm telling you to look at him, Mr. Dalmases, and with all the personal respect I have for him, but with all the condemnation for his attitude, his own mob organization. I'm telling you with all honesty. [[Some applause.]] I would also like to show my solidarity with Mònica Hernández, the deputy director of the FAQS, on TV3. I also want to show my solidarity with Jordi Llovet, a professor of literature, a professor of literature, one of the few genes that we have in our community, an authentic phenomenon from the intellectual point of view, a person for whom I feel the most absolute respect and who has suffered these days also the own attitude of « thugs, in literal terms– I also say in castle: of thugs –, the pro-Mafian practices, when he has received the call of the President of Parliament. And even Mr. Llovet's German had to suffer the call of the President of Parliament, very angry, threatening him that, if he did not withdraw a post in which he explained part of the political trajectory – or in this academic case – of Mrs. Borràs, he would have problems with justice, the doorman in front of justice, to Mr. Llovet, poor of him, who did not cut a plate in his life and who is a truly extraordinary man. I, the truth, see these practices, regret the situation of our community, regret that this may have happened these days in Catalonia. I want to show my solidarity with him. And remember, I insist, that this is absolutely improbable of mature democracy, healthy democracy and an autonomous community that wants to be minimally respectful of political pluralism. The one who's been through these days can't go through again. Mr. Llovet, Mrs. Hernàndez have all the respect, all the warmth of the city council of Catalonia, whatever their position as to the question of the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain. I tried to talk to Mr. Llovet today – I wasn't so lucky, because I don't have the German phone either. And what I did is manifest a person with whom I could speak all my support to Mr. Llovet. And from here I say, I insist, that Catalonia is well on its side. Let's talk about things... And, certainly – Madam President, I finish – it is a lot of complaints about the judicialization of politics. Today I read an article by Ramon de España, which I recommend to you, who does not speak today of the Catalan asylum, even though I could speak of it, but speaks of something interesting: she says that Mrs Borràs has tried to prosecute Mr Llovet, which seems absolutely unacceptable to me, and from here I want to condemn him with all the force. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.106.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I have not put up with it in the use of the word, as I would be entitled to do under Rule 88, which you may already have to know at these parliamentary meetings, because you take advantage of your condition as a Member and my condition as President, which prevents me from giving myself the word for allusions, because I am obliged to moderate the debates. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, I have allowed you to fully dedicate the five minutes [[Funnel veils]] of your motion to speak of questions in which you yourself have violated the presumption of innocence, the right to deprivation of persons and have made convictions of facts that you do not even know. He made a series of assertions that they are unacceptable. I have not taken the use of the word, but I ask you, if you please, when you speak, to do so in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause and fondness.]] You have the word at this time to defend the papers presented by Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.107.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... The motion that has been put to us together for Catalonia gives us the opportunity to give support, certainly, to the democratic process that is being promoted by Scotland to organize a referendum granted and recognized. But above all it is an opportunity to lie down - there, to know it better, to analyze it, to follow it and to see it as a strengthening exercise of democratic culture. And it also gives us the opportunity to bring back the debate and reflection in this chamber, where he wanted to criminalize and prosecute so as to avoid it. And it is also an opportunity to reflect on popular sovereignty, beyond that of the State, and on democratic culture, the culture that understands the collection, the conjunction of Catalan citizenship, in our case, as the protagonist of its future, with full capacity to express itself, to negotiate the best conditions for its well-being and, therefore, to take decisions and be respected. And we need to make this debate and grapple with these democratic convictions in our society and also in this chamber, because it is the basis of social cohesion, of the ability to build the future, and because it has historically been the point of finding which has represented and represents the vast majority of Catalonia, which we call "the right to decide and which Mr. Miquel Iceta himself answered in interviews with: "The references to independence must be able to do and, in fact, to advance democracies must be able to do. What? By the way of the deal. This is the case we've seen in Quebec, which has done it twice, and the case we'll probably see in 2014 in Scotland. And he also said: "The broad consensus on the right to decide exists in Catalonia up to and including the PSC. If it has not been exercised in an agreed manner, it has been due to the refusal of the Spanish State to dialogue to bring it to an end. The case of Scotland and the United Kingdom is a referent of how, with the strengthening of democratic culture, a process of self-determination can be faced, as has Quebec and Canada. Certainly, self-determination processes... each one is different, for its own sake, for its history, for its context. But, in the framework of liberal democracies and above all in the framework of the European Union, the legitimate demand to hold a referendum on the self-determination of a majority of the citizenry, when it is extensive and persistent, must be met in the framework of democratic principles and the guarantee of human rights. The Scottish Government will not give up or give up exhausting all lives to celebrate a referendum granted and respected for the British State and with all international recognition. And I think it pays to reflect here on democratic traditions in the British State. It is not that the British State has a higher democratic culture, but it has after its mistakes; for example, with the agreements of the Divenders Sant in Northern Ireland, a change from a hard conflict that precisely results from a process of negotiation and approximation. So, in the same way, Esquerra Republicana, we will not give up the exercise of the right to decide on the citizenship of Catalonia, fully regaining its sovereignty and recognition and respect. And we will never give up doing so in the framework of democratic principles and with full assurance of respect for the rights and freedoms of all citizens of Catalonia. And we will also continue to demand and force the Spanish State to do like the British and learn from their mistakes. It's never too late to change a wrong recipe. It never goes against society's welfare being more democratic and guaranteeing more and better rights and freedoms. That is why we would not stop working to denounce and make explicit the repression, to combat it and to end the general cause that has sought to criminalise and suppress independence and that, in the background, what they claim is to attack and nullify through the democratic culture of the vast majority of Catalan citizens. They didn't get out or get out, because this democratic conviction is stronger. And when we ask for amnesty, it is to make clear and insist that democracy must prevail over repression and also ensure the exercise of self-determination with all recognition and respect. In short, despite all the obstacles, Esquerra Republicana will not give up politics; we will not give up winning democratically, mostly and persistently at the polls, and we will not give up negotiations with the State to demand that sovereignty and the right to decide on Catalan citizenship be fully respected. The case of Escócia, with all the differences and differences, shows that it is possible and that it is the first option of a mature and full democracy. Now what it takes is to know if the Spanish State... what does it want to be? Who decides what it wants to be. Catalonia's been clear for a while and we've been showing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.108.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.109.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, MPs, MPs...La tarrera enquêta de l'Institut de Ciènciaes Politiques y Socials de Catalunya, la relativo al 2021, situado en unoit_per_cent de los personnes enquêtas que pensa que el proceso a Catalunya terminaria, concreta con la secessionó de Catalunya respect la resta d'Espanya. The latter question of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio was situated in a five-per-cent of the respondents who considered it probable, to a greater or lesser extent, that within three years the process culminated with the secession of Catalonia respects the rest of Spain. It is true that if the time went up to two years, the number of optimists increased slightly and was around the time of the disset_per_cent. In this context, the proposal that today brought us together could be read as an attempt to inflate souls into a certain social thing, but that, let's say, has quite fallen souls – in sight it is. I do not know, in this sense, whether the intervention that we have heard from Mr Dalmases is very much re-elected; in the sense that there is nothing at all, but that he finds the division of the independence movement, the division respects the question of the reference in a vote at the beginning of the legislature and a series of divisions in which I will not stay because they are short for the minutes that remain me. The fact is that the other intention that one could guess at the motion is to make this difficult comparison between the democratic tradition of the United Kingdom and a supposed lack of democratic tradition of Spain. Well, I think that Mrs. Serret has saved me a part of the intervention, in the sense of moderate enthusiasm respects the democratic virtues of the United Kingdom, which is a democracy that is homologable to that of any of its surroundings. But if we allow British democracy to be denied with the Charter of Rights of 1689, it has given remarkable examples, let us say, of mismanagement, even of internal diversity. In fact, since the Act of Union between England and Scotland of 1707 there has been no Scottish parliament, no Scottish administration or government until the 1998 laws of return, to set an example, huh? That's what I'm talking about. And that in the British constitutional tradition, which is an unencoded constitution – it does have written parts, obviously, but it is not encoded – is about the constituent nations. And this is no obstacle because the United Kingdom is considered to be a unitary state – and it is – that gives autonomy, let's say, limited to Gal·les, Northern Ireland and Scotland. So much so that a law of the Westminster Parliament can withdraw any competence and, moreover, can completely nullify autonomy, as has been seen on four occasions since 98 in the case of Northern Ireland. So, what's the matter with this young man now, when Sturgeon didn't just ask for a second reference; he asked for it in March 2017. It comes back to the British government's answer to the students' question that it didn't. He's going to ask for 2019 again. It goes with the answer that is not on the part of the British Government. And he's asking for it again now in 2022, and the answers of the current British government are predictable, or from which it can arise from a few elections. Why do I say it's predictable? Because both the Tories, the Conservative Party, and the Labour Party, and the Liberal-Democrats, have been radically opposed to the organization of a _second independence referendum. Will the United Kingdom be less democratic and its democratic virtues will be smaller now that you say no, that when it came to an agreement to celebrate the 2014 referendum? Well, it doesn't seem like an honest assertion of these characteristics, does it? What is clear is that Sturgeon has said that if I have not obtained permission from the British Government, he will go and seek authority, in some way, before the British Supreme Court or that he will demand a majority in the elections to be held in Scotland in 2026, the Scottish Parliament. What Sturgeon and Scottish nationalism have always done is to flee from any comparison with the lives that Catalan independence has chosen in the process. He has separated as much as possible, he said, explicitly said that he would never organise an illegal consultation. He has not been called upon at any time to use the majority he has in the Parliament of Holyrood to declare a derogation from the unencoded constitution of the Kingdom Unit, or to proclaim transitional laws, or to make a declaration of independence. So, at the time of establishing these terms of comparison, let's just say it all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.110.0	It is now the return of Mr Alberto Tarradas, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.111.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You will have noticed from past interventions of mine that I like to use the Spanish saying, to be acquired of knowledge, of popular wisdom, which is so often correct. Well, when I read the motion presented to us by Junts, I could not help but remember that popular saying which I so wisely stated "when a separatist takes a line, the line ends and the separatist continues. Well, the motion that Junts is putting before us today is that kind of motion, isn't it? , which, after finishing it, continued to walk and walk nowhere. Once again, they come to this chamber with proposals that no longer only do nothing to improve the lives of Catalans, but are meaningless, and many decisions that are intended to be made in this chamber, so in the end they are not going to serve anything. But, as far as they were not already clear, the separatist challenge they pose against the whole of Spain is not comparable or comparable to the situation in Scotland and the United Kingdom. But separatism strives to sustain its illegal rupturist pretensions with processes and conflicts that pass through other countries. We saw how they wanted to compare Catalonia and Spain with Turkey and Kurdistan. We have seen how they wanted to miserably compare Catalonia and Spain with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, or with South African apartheid. Or even Joan Tardà came to compare himself with Gandhi ; Oriol Junqueras, with Nelson Mandela. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, neither Tardà is the Catalan Gandhi nor Oriol Junqueras is Nelson Mandela, nor is the relationship between Catalonia and Spain comparable to the relationship between Scotland and the United Kingdom. Firstly, there is no such thing as the right to decide, which has been commented upon earlier. The only regions subject to the right of self-determination, according to the United Nations, are those that have undergone a process of colonization. And, of course, Catalonia has never been conquered by Spain, simply because Catalonia has always been a proud part of Spain. On the other hand, Scotland was an independent territory. Secondly, Spanish and British legislation have nothing to do with it either. The United Kingdom is not governed by a constitution, as we have in Spain, but by a series of documents which began with the Magna Charter and which were gradually being added to other conventions, other agreements. All this under the sovereignty of the British Parliament, which has the last say in deciding whether or not to hold such a referendum. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, this, thank God, is not the case, since any normative text is based on the idea that the unity of Spain is indissoluble and unnegotiable. And since VOX we will always be guarantors of that unit. For we, like thousands of Catalans, have established in our conscience the idea that Spain is much more than a constitution. In fact, it is earlier and it is the foundation of this constitution. Separatist gentlemen, you cannot compare Catalonia to Scotland, and you know it perfectly well. Even so, they come with so little shame to put a text like this to the vote in this Parliament, without taking into account the real needs of Catalans. In full economic emergency, social emergency, you, from Parliament, come and talk to us about referendums and independence. Of course, what a lack of sensitivity they show. Are they not aware that three Catalans live on the verge of social exclusion? Do they not know that 1,300,000 Catalans live in infra-housing or overcrowded conditions, according to Foessa's report? Do they not know that 462,000 Catalan children are at risk of extreme poverty? Or do you not mind that sixty thousand Catalans live in hostels or spend nights directly on the street? This, gentlemen, is not resolved with referendums; this is resolved with political will, ending its chiringuitos and its ideological waste and putting the Catalans in the center. So stop looking at the navel, stop wasting our time with motions like this, because, even if you don't see it, on the street there are people who are suffering and who need the full and exclusive dedication of this chamber. Separatist gentlemen, the line is over; either put the citizens first or let go of those who do have it clear: the Spaniards, first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.112.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.113.0	Thank you, President. Well, it will soon be a year ago that, in the general policy debate, our parliamentary group put to debate and voted on a motion for a resolution that precisely proposed the celebration of a new referendum, agreed or not with the Spanish State, before 2025. The government – together for Catalonia and Esquerra – dropped it, and now we are singing the excellencies of the Escocia proposal to celebrate a _second reference. Obviously, coherence and congruence do not form a part of the political strategy of the Government, neither of Esquerra nor of Junts, it is obvious. Despite this – despite this – and already entering the text of the motion that they propose to us, we will vote yes at the first point. We do. We can, with all legitimacy and moral and political authority, positively recognize and value the Scottish Government's decision and determination to hold a new referendum. And, therefore, we, with consistency and congruence, will vote 'yes to the first point. For what it does to the second and third points, we will abstain. Because, look, this idealization of European democracy and this idealization of democracy in the United Kingdom, we do not buy them. These excellencies of British democracy... Listen to me, I asked Julian Assange, I asked Northern Ireland. Listen to me, who asked the systematic victims of British foreign and military policy. And, listen'm, I asked the victims of British colonial politics, still – still – very recently, in the past century. Therefore, we, these excellencies that you want to sing continuously for what you do to European democracy, and in this case the British, we do not share them nor can we endorse them. And, look, in addition, we tell them that they seem to be denied, from the point of view of political culture, that they are generated in the independence of this country. Because, frankly, it can be assumed that Europe is looking at us very little – that Europe is looking at us very little. Europe looks at itself, looks at the interests of national states, looks at the interests of capital, looks at the interests of NATO. At this time, Europe is looking at how to reproduce, consolidate and stabilise the status quo of the states and European capital. And to assume that, before the prospect of the new crisis, and in a bellicose context, of militarization and major aggressiveness of European capitalism, Europe will obviously do nothing but veto its status quo. And you know as well as we do that international politics is pragmatic. Therefore, Europe will only look at the day we exercise and effectively consume the exercise of self-determination. We will only get international attention on the day when we effectively exercise self-determination and exercise our rights against the Spanish and European states. Well, to end now, this minute that I'm left, actually, we think the Scottish reference is an opportunity, it's a challenge and it's a responsibility for the Catalan independence movement. Because, certainly, it will pose on the table again, it will update again on the table, on the international debate, the fact of the exercise of self-determination and of the right collections of nations without state. And, indeed, it can imply a new international location in the State because it recognizes that this democratic conflict, this political conflict, will only be resolved by voting, that it can only be resolved by voting. But, on the other hand, it will also be a challenge and a responsibility for the independence movement, so that it puts on the table the exercise of our country's self-determination, because it is active and because it is mobilized again, so as to achieve the split and democratic rupture with the Spanish State, not indispensable for being able to enter into any scenes that are truly democratic resolution of the conflict, voting. But certainly – certainly – this reference to Scotland is also a reptile and it is an emplacement and it is a challenge to the policy of the Government of the Generality, of Esquerra and of Junts, which have brought independence to an atzucac, through a table of useless dialog and which does not carry place, or through a concert with the Spanish State through the Agenda for the Meeting. And, therefore, we do; we, along with you, have the institutional situation with the socialists and the commons, here and in the State, assume the responsibility to be the alternative, to be the alternative that defends the national and social liberation of this country, and to be the alternative that builds the popular unit to activate the independence movement towards the break with the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.114.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, she continues to read the words of Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.115.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... I'm to be allowed..., and I'm sure that MP Dalmases will allow me to do so, because it's clear that in order to prepare this young man I rescued the transcript of the inquiry from then, which he remembers, that we had a little talk about what he had said or what he hadn't said. And I didn't mean it, but it's just that you're too tempting. So, I read it textually, okay? « Spain once again made a fool of it and was left with the majority. Most of the Spanish MEPs voted against it. And in the usual suspicious, who were the PP, Ciutadans, Socialists and VOX, there were also the commons, inexplicably; there were also the commons, against Kosovo. I mean, he said it. And it's fine, it's wrong and it's not happening, but I think it's worth saying again. Taking advantage of the text as well, the transcription of the inquiry would begin to speak of the motion. So, quite simply, because it is clear that we will vote in favour of the first point. We have always defended the right to decide, the right to a reference as a political solution to the conflict that saw the relationship between Catalonia and the Spanish State. So, no problem. They voted in favour. But I think it's important to contextualize a little the reference to Scotland. Actually, he's already gone. Of course, I'm sure I won't say I'm new. It is true that the government of the United Kingdom itself does not seem as predisposed as some years ago to allow the celebration of this new reference, although it has already lost then. And yet, now he's not so predisposed. And it is also true that the Government of Scotland has publicly said several times – and it has already been said – that they will renounce any type of unilateral or confrontational way, that they will bet on a new mechanism of dialogue with the Government of the United Kingdom and that, if they fail to do so, this agreement will not allow them, they will opt for the judicial way. That is to say, they have made it very clear that it is a matter of confrontation and that it is a matter of unilateral declarations. I'm also telling the CUP company. Because it's very good that I have the Escócia reference as the model, but it's a given reference, dialogue and bonding, linking. Therefore, it is not well enough that CUP companies are being raised in their resolution proposal. It would only coincide, in this case, with the date on which they want to do so. Therefore, for what the Government of Scotland bets is for a given, dialogued reference. So we agree that we believe that Spain can learn and lose this by – the Government of the State – making consultations, making references, that people can decide. I believe that Spain must learn this, in this case, on this subject, from the Government of the United Kingdom. But we also believe that the Government of Catalonia can also learn a little bit of the Government of Scotland. I mean, this is supposed to be a back and forth relationship, too. Perhaps here we all learn, because I am not quite sure that the Government of Scotland will give up the opportunity that would imply a table of the dialog. I do not see myself saying: "No, we do not go to this table of the dial, which serves no purpose. We're talking about our own way without a pact. I don't see it very well, do I? At this point, the Government of Scotland. Therefore, we will support the points that speak of recognizing the right to make this reference and that the Spanish State should allow this also to be done here. We have the same doubts that have already been expressed about what the concept of democratic credentials for Juntes for Catalonia is. A little bit of doubt we've got. And if we go over the intervention that the councilwoman did during the country inquiry about what she talked about to pose as an example of hope in the East, right? , it was Israel – which has clearly become clear that we do not share the democratic credentials that the Council and the Government of Junts for Catalonia see there, to Israel –, Emirates, Bahrain, Sudan, Morocco, Egypt... I, as democratic credentials of these countries, have not seen it well either, eh? I don't think we really agree. But we're talking about the United Kingdom, we've talked about it, too, huh? But I will go to Amnesty International's 2021 report on the United Kingdom, to see the democratic credentials of the United Kingdom, what problems they have. To start with, I'd say the name, huh? : "Reign, "unit, monarchy. It seemed that the subject of monarchy and democracy was not clear. Regne Unit, monarchy. It is a monarchy where, more than that, the monarchy has much more interference in political life than here. This is where they start. Other things Amnesty International says. The government promised a fence over its management of the covid-19 pandemic and significantly detailed a social benefit of 6_million people. The rights of immigrant refugees were systematically violated. A new bill on the police function made the right to peaceful assembly and the right not to be discriminated against difficult. There was concern about a draft law on judicial review and the revision of the law on human rights. There is still no guarantee of access to aneurysm in Northern Ireland. And the lack of accountability for violations of human rights in Northern Ireland persists. And, indeed – and it has been said – the paper played by the United Kingdom in the extradition of Assange, a lot of democratic credential I don't know if I would put in a resume, too I tell you. And we will not vote in favour of the point that Parliament sees the future, in which it finds that the United Kingdom will not repress and will not intervene, because we believe that in order to see the future we would need a glass ball, which we may not have right now in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.116.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.117.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, if in the past the pujolist shared carnes of catalanity, for today their children share democrat credentials. I think this motion on the democratic credentials of the United Kingdom and Spain and of the separatist referendums seems to me to be like a deja vu and it is a refrain from the years 2014, the 15, the 16, the 17 and what I will be rounding you, brunette, because you are continually presenting these kinds of motions here in Parliament. And I, look, I have to give you some bad news this afternoon. The Scottish nationalists absolutely pass from you; not only because you are a pelmazo, but because they do not want to know anything about your procedural model. You, over this time, have shown that you are not very much on the subject of constitutionalism. But I believe that anyone who has been involved in this matter knows that comparing the British model with the continental European model makes no sense at all. Look, in the United Kingdom sovereignty lies in Parliament; a parliament that can do absolutely anything, such as, for example, even convene a separatist referendum. But in Spain sovereignty lies, resides in the people. And, if you want to make a separatist referendum, you will have to convince the majority of the people to change the Constitution. As long as that does not happen, as in Germany, France, Italy or the United States, the separatist referendum is not allowed. And I repeat: Germany, France, Italy or the United States, that you always make many scarecrows, but that's the way it is, the thing. But, of course, you guys this, even though I'm telling you here, you know it before. What's going on, you haven't come here to accept reality. You come here to bully the pot of the process. You come here to stir up feelings and low passions, because so you can remain in your positions without having to answer and without having to have any kind of responsibility in your management. And the only thing I do, the truth is that I recognize their courage. Because it is necessary to be very bold, but very bold, to distribute credentials of democrats coming from Junts per Catalunya, that party that, for example, meets with the Putin environment to destroy a European democracy; a party with deputies who promoted here, in this Parliament, the law of legal transition, which was intended to end democracy in Catalonia. And you have a very wrong concept of what democracy means. In Junts per Catalunya, for example, they understand democracy as it seems that Mrs Borràs understands the management of public money or as it seems that Mr De Dalmases also understands freedom of the press. I mean, here you either do what you want or, if you don't, you do it all. But, look, jumping over laws or giving away public money or trying to scare journalists doesn't seem like the most democratic thing in the world, honestly. Today, with this motion, it seems like it's time to look at yourself in Scotland, but I insist that in Scotland you don't want to know absolutely anything about yourselves. But every day the example is one. One day Mr. Artur Mas says that we are the Denmark of the South. Another day Torra comes and promises the Slovenian way. One day you are with Israel; the other day you are with Palestine. They like Venezuela very much, but yet the communist lady of the UPC, Mrs Gabriel, escapes to the Swiss capitalist. One day they propose an Arab spring to Catalan. Another day even you come to compare yourself with Papua New Guinea. Anyway, his thing is... come on, they seem to like absolutely everything and want to be everything but Catalonia. Look, I regret to say to you that the world does not look at you, that Scottish nationalism does not want to know anything about you and that the Catalans are already at a different stage, that we are already looking forward to overcoming everything they have brought together in recent years and that you are still not giving up. We, of course, are going to vote no to this procedural refrain. But, well, you guys, if you want, you can stay trapped in your loop and your hamster wheel. We are of course going to do what we are going to do is to work seriously, responsibly, making a useful policy in this Parliament, to leave behind this disastrous stage in which, I insist, they have achieved no international support and where the rest of the world looks at them, but for evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.118.0	So, finally, in order to pronounce himself on the issues, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases once again takes the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.119.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... President, precisely, I don't know if I could give a few more seconds, because I've been greeted for questions that didn't come up with the... I don't know if I'm using Article 87, but in any case... [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.120.0	I'll give you a minute more, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.121.0	Anyway... [[Widow's remorse.]] In any case, it's been three days since I saw a circus that is, every time more, evolving towards a lynx that seems hard to justify. In the realm of transparency and to avoid the slanders I have felt in this phony, I have bought myself with my party so that there is an information expedient that can clarify the situation there. In order not to create distortions in this Parliament, I have also offered to my party not to be a spokesman for the body commission, even though I will not compromise myself, because I have nothing to love and I will continue to participate in it. And, therefore, I deeply regret – deeply –... because in the end we will all end up getting out of this Parliament one day or another and only our reputation will remain. If any passage I have had in my life is for the press, for freedom of press, for journalism and for good journalism. It's from the few things I've defended in all the spaces where I've worked. And I have not denied, nor will I deny it – and therefore I believe that this is not the space that it touches –, that I actually had a discussion on this with a person of whom I esteem and value the journalism that we have been doing for more than two years, that we are dealing with and collaborating with each other; that is precisely why I said that it was a discussion that had been strictly in terms of journalistic perspective, and precisely because of that – and precisely because of that – so as not to confuse what it meant that there was this ancient knowledge or not, I apologized to everyone who might have been offended. And, therefore, I very much regret that, without having been able to express myself in any area near here and in any way near here, I must suffer these defamations without even being allowed to explain myself and without even having been able to offer, in the areas where it is played, what happened and where I am all this. I'm so sorry. And I'm sorry, deputies and deputies, because I know he wasn't playing here right now, but he needed to say it and he needed to explain it. On the Scottish road, I was very pleased that we found ourselves, that we found ourselves in the CUP, that we found ourselves left, that we found ourselves in the commons, because in the background we are being questioned. The other thing we explained is that it's simply a good way, it's a good referent. When they once remembered the State, they set it as an example; now that they simply believe in their Parliament, it can also be an example. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.122.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this late, once the item number 23 on the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of repression on independence and democratic standards in the Spanish State]] [[302-00182/13]] Let's move on to item 22 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the impact of repression on independence and the democratic standards of the Spanish State. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and has the word to expose it to the deputy Marta Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.123.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. In the past plenary, we made an inquiry into the repression and political persecution of the independence movement. A repression that is absolutely obvious and takes the form of a general cause in the October Catalan march of 2017 and that, before the exercise of self-determination, citizenship, civic empowerment and democracy made by the people of Catalonia, the State only knew how to respond with violence, authoritarianism and repression. And since then we have had cases of political prisoners and prisoners, political exiles, there are open causes to thirty-nine jutjas and there are in total up to 4,200 retaliatory persons – the last xifra of Cultural – on the map of repression, some people who are retaliatory for having defended the right to self-determination of the people of Catalonia. Here today we have to sum up the announcement of the repetition of the judgment of the Electoral Union of the U of October, despite an absolute initial feeling and which, among other people, affects the Councillor Verge, to whom we want to show all our support. This is an unheard-of fact, a fact which, moreover, is very suspicious and which for the most part is a guarantor of justice, but which shows, again, this will to persecute. And that's unsustainable. Let's say – and we'll say the times you need – that this situation is unsustainable. A state that wants to consider democratic, that wants to consider right, cannot hold on to these few repressive fangs, on these keywords, or on this will of criminalization. And, in fact, this is the situation that impacts on the democratic quality of the State as well. And that is not what we say, not just the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, but also international organisations and institutions that are responsible for safeguarding human rights, such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, United Nations, the Council of Europe or the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the proposal we are presenting, we note that the State has been unable to give this response to the will of the citizenry to decide the future collection, and that is what generates the political conflict, hence the political conflict, of the inability of the State to give response to the sustained and repeated will of a majority of the citizenry of Catalonia to want to decide our future collection as a people. That is why we propose a way to resolve this political conflict: to go through the path of dialogue, negotiation, the search for agreement, and to resolve this conflict, yes, with guarantees and that it must be possible to be between equals. And so, after a long crisis in this negotiation process due to the lack of incompliments..., therefore due to the lack of compliments, in fact, for the incompliments of the commitments or for the case of the espionage of the "Catalangate", call this point of inflection to recommence in this way. That's what happened. It has been discussed in these last weeks between the Councillor, the Minister, between the Presidents of Catalonia and the State, of course, of these talks, a strong agreement for negotiation and which will have to propitiate the new meeting of the negotiating table between governments next week. The path is walking. And from this agreement there is a basic fundamental idea, which the House reiterates, that it is the recognition of the full legitimacy of the various ideologies and the various political projects. And that's important, to recognize the full legitimacy of the project we're defending, because it's the way to avoid this prosecution. And also another idea that reverses the motion and that emerges in this trade-mark agreement: the need to dismiss, because in order to resume politics, which is the way we defend, we must defuse justice and stop this crime and ensure this mark of respect for the fundamental rights. And that's why we defend the negotiated path with conditions and guarantees, and we have shown our commitment to the instrument we have articulated: a table of negotiations between governments – certainly, the first point of the plan of government in this legislature. And yes, unlike the State, we..., unlike the State, which has no proposal, we do have a proposal that we want to defend, which represents the great consensus in this country, which is self-determination, voting our future in a referendum, and amnesty, which is the best solution to end the situation of repression. And, in this sense, also in this motion we are presenting and proposing the processing of the amnesty law from this Parliament of Catalonia, as we have found the doors closed to the Congress of Deputies. And yet another proposal: the need to bet to articulate an anti-repressive strategy as much as possible consensus, which obviously does not involve a waiver of our objectives. We know that anti-repressive solidarity is the best tool and, obviously, what we want to achieve is to be able to defend our objectives and that I do not achieve it, repression, therefore, make us put up with it. I ended up, President, remembering that the Democrats have an obligation to build this democratic solution and to end the repression, and to make it look bad, leaving it suspicious. The reptile is enormous, but we are here to be useful, to build solutions that will not come suns or guarans from the cell. We are to bite stone, not to sting cold iron, but to open the left and build the paths of solutions and freedom and rights, to build this land of opportunity and this land free for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.124.0	It has the word to defend the papers presented, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.125.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... well, I spoke before the repeated public debate in Catalonia. And certainly, well, we went from a motion where we talked about self-determination, judicialization and so many other mantras, to talk about repression in this case. Certainly, everything is quite tiring and, certainly, I believe that it is also possible to tell a truth, to see a truth as a temple. The truth is that many of the things you put forward here, not to mention the vast majority... The other day, President Aragonès said, he complained that the president of my parliamentary group, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, was talking about the football world of 2030, as if a football world was not an event that, although well, brings for a territory, for a country, for a community, a huge economic movement and, therefore, a matter of the utmost importance for the economic and social interests of a particular territory. But, well, he wanted to discredit the intervention of the chairman of my group, Mr Aragonès, in those terms. And I, frankly, have been talking systematically, for ten years, about a non-existent right to self-determination, about a supposed repression, really, seems to me to be an immense troll. Forgive me for telling you so clearly. Mrs. Vilalta was now speaking about the map of repression. I think he said that... it's a little drawing that makes Ómnium Cultural. I would ask myself one thing: is Mrs Borràs on that repression map? Does Mrs. Borràs also appear on the map of repression as repressed, accused of crimes such as prevarication or falsity of documents? Because, of course, I believe that any citizen of Catalonia who is a little informed and has seen the news about Mrs Borràs' emails with a suspected drug dealer will know or agree with me that she cannot be considered repressed of anything at all. An investigation, since we were talking about repression... I understand I'm sticking to the subject, huh? , because we came to talk about repression and, therefore, I refer strictly to these terms. I do not believe that anyone can claim, in his or her healthy judgment, that a person accused, at the point of opening an oral trial, of crimes as serious as the prevarication and documental falsehood, can self-arroll the status of reprisal or repressed. But probably Mrs. Borràs is also on the terrible map of repression perginated by Ómnium Cultural. To me, honestly, it all seems like such a huge toss of hair that you want until you don't respond to such nonsense. But, well, we are in this and logically we must give the battle of ideas, we must give the battle, to the extent possible, against a narrative and against a cultural hegemony that is omnimod. And, therefore, we, from the People's Parliamentary Group and from our party, will never cease to give up that battle. But, I insist, it seems to me that you are coming to moments, to truly caricatured situations when you speak, I insist, of that immense number of repressed or retaliated. Wow, I think it's all very unconsistent. In any case, the motion that presents us here today Republican Left continues with the usual mantras, that if the Spanish state criminalizes political ideas... We have here nationalist political parties that govern Catalonia. I am the oppressor, I am the one who retaliates, I am the oppressor, and here is the oppressed, Mrs Borràs. Do you really not believe that this is an obvious graphic metaphor of how ridiculous the situation is? She can tell me what she wants when I'm going to my seat, and I can't answer it, logically. And I'll take it, huh? Hey, these are the rules of the parliamentary game, I accept that. But can anyone in his or her right mind really believe that the relationship between Mrs. Borràs and I is the relationship between an oppressor – I – and a poor oppressed – Mrs. Borràs? [[Some applause.]] Really, it's just that I want to draw attention to the crazy, the surreal, how grotesque this all turns out. And I would like sincerely – what I said yesterday about the pedagogical role of politics – so that the public debate in Catalonia would be much more open. These conversations that many Catalans have with our comrades, friends, independent families, yes, at dinners... We have Catalan dinners that we are not nationalists, Catalans that are nationalists, Catalans that we are constitutionalists, Catalans that are independentists or separatists and Catalans mid-pensionists. And at those dinners I think it's healthy for us to say things as they are. And this metaphor that I have put before you now, when I see myself here, logically, under the authority of a president, of a democratic authority, under her authority, I find it difficult to believe that I am a repressive; honestly, I find it difficult to believe that I am the one who represses Mrs Borràs and that poor Mrs Borràs feels oppressed by the authority of an oppressive state. Listen, wake up, nationalist gentlemen: this is an authentic hairdo, a piece of troll, that the lords of the nationalist parties live very comfortably on it and deceive them systematically. It is a message that, modestly, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens we want to bring to the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.126.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, there is, after all, the words of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.127.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, from the moment we can, I think our position is well-known: we have been, we are and we will be against the repression of independence and justice. In fact, we also remembered these days, speaking to Jaume Asens, who presented 2019 to the elections with a motto that was clear: "Freedom, dialogue and solutions. And we do, even though sometimes some groups in the chamber say or speak, don't they? We have always defended the same in Catalonia, but we have always defended the same in Seville, Madrid, Valladolid and the different points of the State, knowing that this often could have electoral costs, but that we did it because of democratic convictions. And also why, even though sometimes some groups in the chamber are also oblivious, we've also suffered the sewers of the State, and we've also suffered the lawfare, huh? So, also from democratic convictions, right? And, therefore, we have a very clear position. We are not in any case obstructing or blocking any political position or, in the end, also in the way that I can put an end to the repression, to the judicial process and, therefore, also resolve situations that we believe need to be resolved: President Puigdemont's, Mr Jové's, Mr Salvado's, Mrs Serret's or others, right? Mrs. Rovira or Mr. Comín, but, in any case, yes, of Mrs. Serret, because we also share strengths at the Board of Spokespersons. And, for that matter, not even an amnesty law. Now, I also say to you: we do not share that, yes or yes, the political solution alone and exclusively must be self-determination and amnesty law. Among other things, Mrs. Serret spoke directly of Divendres Sant's agreements, and Divendres Sant's agreements were not the maximum program, at that time, of the IRA, for example. Therefore, as a result of the negotiation and this dialogue, there may be agreements that they do not exclusively follow the political program of the Republican Left or any independentist force. And in this sense, the four pieces of paper, that I would like to thank Congresswoman Vilalta as well as some others, right? , we could talk about it – now I'll talk about it too. The first is that we do believe – and that is why we did – that it is time for the dialog table to begin to agree and to move forward. And, therefore, we believe that in this future table of the dialect that we must have, let us hope, the week that you see, or, in any case, in which there may be before the end of the year, we begin to reach concrete agreements. And we also believe that concrete agreements are called for to end the repression and the judicialization of the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And we believe, and we believe – and that is why we also want to place it at the point of the motion – that we want to place the reform of the crime of siege, to put it on the march. And, besides, I'm surprised we haven't been able to introduce it, because it's obvious that we can talk about the amnesty law, but we can talk about it. In the balance I think we need to talk about the pardons, because it is also done in this case, say, an analysis of the situation, and it is what I said before, that is, I think it was a decision that, well, obviously, we defended that it was the decision that was to be made, we presented ourselves to the elections asking for these pardons, that they do not resolve everything, but that, obviously, it is also a decision that has and has incurred electoral costs. And that is why we believe that we are now moving forward with the reform of the sedition crime to adapt the Spanish Penal Code to the European context. And, plus, because we all think that we all know that it's really when it can end or it can start to solve many of the situations that we don't have solved, right? A third point, which we believe is important and which has also been accepted, is to give support to the agreement or the dialogue mark granted between the Catalan Government and the Spanish Government on 8 July in Barcelona – in the meeting and then ratified by the Presidents – between Mrs Vilagrà and Mr Bolaños. I also think it is important for Parliament to do so, because we have the feeling that my Government wants its president to fail. And, therefore, I think it is important that, as with the support of the Catalonian Parliament, I count on this agreement, right? And then I think it's also important, and we want to introduce it into this context... that it's a firm commitment to the struggle of this Parliament against corruption, because I think it's a mistake to confuse repression and judicialization with alleged corruption. And, look, I'm so sure of it – I said it on the press and I'll say it here. In other words, comparing President Forcadell with President Borràs may tend to help President Borràs, but it does not help independence, it does not help to end repression and it does not help to end the judicialization of politics. For us, this comparison – I honestly tell you – is simply indecent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.128.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Josep Rius has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.129.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Before defending the position of Junts in relation to this subsequent motion, we would like to thank the predisposition of Esquerra Republicana and also the CUP to deal with most of the points of this motion, if it is certainly a text that Junts for Catalonia – and no one has to surprise – has not just been complete, in the sense that it lays the tool of the dialog table as the method, let us say, to advance, the only one, towards the resolution of the conflict. If what they claim in this case is to have the current dialog table, they know that they cannot count on us, neither for the contents, nor for the calendar, nor for the guarantees, nor for the results, nor for the vetoes, nor for the context of mass espionage against the independence that the Kingdom of Spain is refusing to investigate. The impact of repression on independence and the low democratic standards of the Spanish State are evidence. And, in this sense, Juntes' position respects Spain's unwillingness to resolve the political conflict is truly public and notional. We have now signed, more than a year ago, an agreement combining the transition of the dialogue table with the preparation of a new democratic debate, with a clear objective: to complete the mandate of the U of October, that is, to complete the independence of Catalonia. This motion, therefore, for Junts for Catalonia, is incomplete. It is clear that we agree and that we will work together for the end of the repression, but we are more convinced that the method of acquitting it must have two essential denominators: self-determination and amnesty. Both denominators, we think, must be part of a process of negotiation with the State, always the result of a strategy of unity of all independence. The Junts proposal, taken together in the agreement of government that we signed, was that of confrontation or democratic debate with the State, without closing in any case the possibility of the dialogue, but with guarantees and with the real will to negotiate on behalf of the State; a united and coordinated democratic debate for all independence. So, what do we find now? He described it very eloquently to Mr. Carod-Rovira – if there was a reference – in an article to El Punt earlier this week: it is dialogue with friends in a _frame of comfort and trust, but it is only negotiated with enemies or adversaries with enough elements of strength in the table. I, what strength do we have now? Today's dialogue table is, in our view, an instrument that undermines the resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and Spain; it sends an erroneous signal both inside and outside, demobilising the proper movement of one band, and, on the other, internationally, pointing out that the Catalan conflict is in the lives of resolution. And beyond that: there is no political and democratic solution, nor has it stopped repression. Before yesterday, we had – and Mrs Vilalta also referred to it – an example of the repetition of the trial against the U of October. The repression does not stop and the repression exercised for the State is not the stone on the way to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. It's a rock on the Sabbath of the Spanish State, it's its weakened, it's its great shame, and it's also a position of strength to negotiate the right to self-determination in Madrid. We understand, however, that this young man spoke of dismissal. But, planted like this, we don't think you've just got it all figured out. Amnesty without self-determination didn't feel it. We didn't do the U of October to be amnesties, but to be independent. And much less we did it to negotiate only a mistrial based on a penile reduction, because we didn't commit any crime. We made an act of reaffirmation, the most important and hopeful act of national reaffirmation of the last three centuries for many people, and this is a collection of millions of people who participated in it. It doesn't belong to anyone in concrete. That is why we need to reinforce the fifty-two-per-cent strategy, not the one of one party or another in concrete terms. If we only fix ourselves in the anti-repressive mark, if we meet the objective of self-determination, we weaken ourselves. It's a fake exit. Five years after the act of sovereignty carried out by a majority of Catalonia's citizens, there must be a point of inflection; after five years in which, despite repression, a sincere opportunity has been given to the dialogue, it is time to take back the thread of the U of October and the culmination of independence. We know the formula, we did it on October 17th: unity of the parties, mobilizing force and democratic reason to be fighting for freedom. Unit, force and reason. And that's precisely why we want to contribute to this unit that we will support most of the points of this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.130.0	Next, it is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to move forward; the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.131.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today, the ECB announced a 0.5 interest rate bid. That's not good news; we talked to Councilman Giró yesterday. It starts weeks and months hard. And I'm sure if we talk about some of these issues that affect citizens' day-to-day lives, we'll be able to come to terms. I'm sure in many cases, in many fears, we could agree. And I say this because the Socialist Group's will is always – and you know it – to build and to try to move forward and to try to unite, to sum up to make a better Catalonia. Miri, we recognize that there is a conflict between Catalonia and Spain, we have always said – the first one to be able to solve a problem is to recognize it – but we also want to say that there is a problem between Catalans, and some groups of this chamber do not want to recognize it. Not one or the other, is it? There are some groups that do not recognize the conflict between Catalonia and Spain, and there are some that do not recognize the conflict between Catalans. And, frankly, there is, because not all Catalans think alike about where Catalonia should go. And, if I look at the late CEO who was published on March 22– a few months ago–, in this CEO fifty-three percent of Catalans said they didn't want independence and only thirty-eight percent said they did. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If only I'm fixed in this CEO... And I'm respectful, I've been respectful to everyone; I'd also ask who you're talking to at these times. I read the CEO. In other words, it seems to me that, besides, the president and the director have put it, not exactly my parliamentary group; so say that. Therefore, I say this with all respect, Mrs.Villata, who knows that I have it and a lot, when you say: "It is a proposal of great consensus. I don't know exactly, these great consensuses... because we are convinced that not, mostly, all Catalans are on this line. Yes, it is true that the eighty percent of Catalans would want a solution to this agreed conflict. And, therefore, perhaps what we should do among all, which is what we propose, is to talk and to wake up. This would be the big proposal we should make, and it's not sometimes the one we're listening to in this room, is it? Dialeg to get out of the conflict, because it is true that there is no other way out than this, but also in Catalonia, I insist. Actually... we've set up a march, we've set up a march between governments. The dial table has been set aside, but we would also like a table in Catalonia. We think it would be very positive that all the parties could get together and talk and look at these points in common about the economic difficulties that our own months have, about infrastructure, about sanitation and also about the future of Catalonia, that we all sure don't see the same, but I think it would be good that we respect ourselves – that we can't say – neither can I, let us say, that I'm not independent, nor the ones that are – that everyone sees it as one, because I think that we can't say that, and we need to be honest with reality. And, so, so, what we could do is try to sweat and dialogue. President Torra did, who called this table of parties, and I think it would be a good time now that we all seem to recognize that the dialog..., or many, or the majority. Perhaps here we would find ourselves with great consensus, that we believe my dialog is the only way out to resolve the conflict. So, if that's the way it is, I think it would be up to us to insist and reinforce this dialogue between governments, huh? And we in our position are working to keep it that way, but also in Catalonia, we insist. I also wanted to tell you that we also maintain this constructive attitude for everything. We've made statements; Mrs. Vilalta knows. And I want to thank you..., you always have a good, also very built, very collaborative, to try to generate consensus. It's hard, Mrs. Vilalta, to agree on the CUP and the PSC; I understand that. And you've accepted more from the CUP and the Juntas, say, than from the PSC, but I also want to thank him for the effort he's made, because he's accepted one of ours, right? It's hard to balance, and so you tried, and it sure as hell turned out better than I might have done. But it's true that it's complicated to balance when there are some who don't want to talk and want to impose, right? And, in change, when we believe that the best way to surround points in common is to talk. And we also say one thing: respect and build before dialectic excesses that can sometimes hurt. But, well, we honestly believe that we've come here to gather and settle and not to confront and, therefore, I won't do it from this bean. We will give support to a few points, very few, some that have accepted us. Also to one of the common items, which reinforces this bet for the dialog that they are making, I believe, the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, or at least part. We'd like that to be all, wouldn't we? Ladies and gentlemen of Junts for Catalonia, I think you should also come from your sister in this table that will come next to you. But in any case, the support of those we can, and the rest, obviously, like we don't share this vision, that we think it's a sloppy little one, so we can't give it support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.132.0	I, finally, in the defense round of the exams, has the parable of the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.133.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor, Mirin, I'll talk to you honestly. When we read the motion, your motion, we thought that the only thing they were looking for was a validation_mark to the Councillor's find Vilagrà with Mr. Bolaños, a validation_mark from this Parliament to renounce the dialog table. And it's obvious that we're not going to be found here. For us, this dialog table is an instrument for the service of stability and governance in Spain and Catalonia. And yes, it is true that the motion includes perspective and accents propitious to the Republican Left, which question us in the context of independence, because it places the absence of a democratic response on the part of the State, the legitimacy of all democratic political projects on Catalonia and the need for agreement between various options, recognition of repression, necessity of judicialization, amnesty law, shared anti-repressive strategy, dialogue and negotiation with the right to decide how to object– "the right to decide, a word that I think is already far exceeded, right? But, frankly, there are a few points of your young lady that scare you. The 5, especially, we equate to the same level of reprisals and repressions, we legitimize all political projects, including those that pursue with violence and repression the people of this country exercising the right to vote peacefully. I, how can you match it? We don't think we can put it at the same level. Before this young man, we had two options and we chose to build, to make ideas and try to make it possible to agree on some essential points, on such a vital issue in our country as amnesty and self-determination, as it is to continue advancing towards independence. I mean, don't I? I would be grateful if we could vote for this text in these papers... in some of them. And we want to thank the work done with Congresswoman Vilalta and also with Congressman Rius when we have negotiated some better. But beyond every point and every vote, I think it is essential that we ask ourselves some questions about this set of their proposals. Can we consider democratic a political project that does not include the right of self-determination? We don't think so. Can we accept a _mark that has as its main horizon the judicialization and repressive descalation, but without a horizon that encloses self-determination and amnesty? We can't accept it. Can we endorse a _marc of deactivation of conflict, naturalization of repression and continued imposition of the State? Big mistake, which went totally in the opposite direction to get the conflict resolved. And one last question: can we assume a dialogue between political forces that does not have as objective the exercise of self-determination? Not us. We cannot ignore the main demand of this country and normalize this situation of democratic exceptionality. There are many points that, negotiated, we can vote in favour of – I have already said this – but this young man has a very clear background music, a background music that we don't like people: the deactivation of conflict and the prioritization of collaboration with the State, taking in fact the Agenda for the Meeting. Finally, we want to point out what is obvious, but we can't forget. The advent of independence will not be built with motions, nor with small motions, with motions that combine many things– we don't say Frankenstein motions – as this one, right? , in the mark of an anti-democratic state that won't join the table to talk about background questions. What is needed is a social agenda of defense of popular sovereignty to improve the living conditions of the working people and to set the time for rupture and self-determination. And yes, Mr. Cid, what is, if not, the solution, if you do not recognize the right of self-determination and apply amnesty? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So there's nothing else. Mrs Romero, in a self-determination reference, it's the people you decide, and the two options have the right to express themselves. What you want is a consensus in which this autonomy, that neither... I'm done, president. This autonomous mark, this state-owned mark, which does not generate consensus, you want it to be imposed on the majority, and it is only with a self-determination reference that there is democracy because the people decide it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.134.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.135.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you. Well, we simply dismantle the separatist initiatives that present us in this motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. But she did want to make a little incis to the Socialist Party deputy, Mrs Romero, asking what to dialogue and agree what to do – dialogue and agree what to do. Mr Mirin, members of the Socialist Party, take note – take note – and pass the points to Mr Sánchez, and also to you, of how to act with those who do not respect the constitutional order, with those who commit public disorder and with those who use the money of all Catalans to commit illegal acts. Because in front of this there is only one answer, which is justice. [[Some applause.]] And let us look briefly at the proposals presented to us at its joint meeting. First, they note that, after five years of the illegal referendum of October 1, 2017, the Government of Spain has been unable to give a political response. So, well, this is fake, because the pardons of the Socialist Party to the strikers were a political response. In fact, it was an act of treason and surrender by all institutions to a few, without taking into account, in this case, neither the opposition to pardon by the Supreme Court, by the Attorney-General of the State and the Prosecutor of the Supreme Court. And there is no left behind the People's Party, which did not have a strategy to face either the past situation or the present one. I, as they speak of '1 October 2017, why don't they speak, for example, of the Republican Left and the Junts, of the consequences of this U of October? Why don't they talk about these consequences? Taken in failure, negotiations closed, many families without work, even families confronted for hatred and confrontation. [[Rialles.]] Yes, they did – they did – but many families were confronted for the hatred that you yourselves passed to Catalan society. I, you know the motiu? Because a lot of Catalans do know the reason. The motive was to provoke a big smoke curtain, to cover up the corruption of separatist leaders and to entertain the Catalans of the great social retailing that they were living. Because it is not by chance that the separatist process coincides with the harshest period of social detail that happened in Catalonia. And this is the great Republican Left and Juntas project for Catalonia, this is the great ruin project for Catalans. In the second term, you are presented as victims of which you, in a fallacious manner, call political repression, who say that they suffer from the multiple judicial proceedings initiated against the trial and its tentacles. Do not deceive Catalans any more, because they are not persecuting ideas, nor are they only persecuting feelings; they are persecuting criminal acts and, therefore, they are persecuting criminals. Because you carry decades that lack your political responsibilities of respect and compliment of the law. And it's that, in fact, you've been here a long time that you do and mess with your wishes. And, in fact, you think you're unpunished in front of the law, and you ended up in jail thanks to VOX's lawsuit, and we'll do it the times you need. [[Some applause.]] And, in this sense, I stress: ideas are fought with ideas, and crimes are fought with justice, which is precisely to pursue secession, rebellion, public disorder and corruption caused by misuse of public funds. And you are not entitled to speak of repression, because you have never suffered repression. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Here the only repression in Catalonia is the repression of Catalans who precisely disagree with their separatist postulates. These Catalans do know what repression is. And last but not least, I think you'd be ashamed to come forward with proposals like this. [[Widow's remorse.]] And it takes a little respect – it takes a little respect – because I'm an intervener. Please, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.136.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.137.0	I am aware that they are not used to being told things as they are, but now they have eleven Members of VOX who do so, and they should be ashamed to make proposals like these, when we have people who don't know if they're going to go to their place of work, when we have families who are struggling for their own survival, and you come here with a theme that has done so much harm to the economy and families in Catalonia. Shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.138.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Marta Vilalta. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.139.0	Yes, thank you. I know sometimes they don't like to listen to me, but they don't have another remedy left. But, well, we're already finishing, it's the penultimate motion already from this session. And the truth is that this motion presents a lot of paradoxes and follows a bit the wake of the motion that previously presented us Junts per Catalunya. It turns out that Esquerra Republicana, who are the priority partners of the government of Pedro Sánchez, presents a motion in which they practically come to say that his partner presides over a dictatorial state, even. It's just that I don't understand how you can be Mr Sánchez's direct partners and preferred partners, when you come here to tell us that it's an evil state, that it haunts you and oppresses you. Frankly, the truth is that the contradiction is obvious, and I say again that it presents many paradoxes, this motion. You, for example, in this motion – and you have also repeated it over the course of these days, on account of the famous meeting with Pedro Sánchez in the Moncloa – demand to overcome judicialization. You call it 'judicialization'. That is, you want to suppress the separation of powers, you want the legislature or, directly, the executive to instruct the judges about what they have to do, what they have to do with their cases precisely. And yours is a deeply undemocratic thought – they told you before –; you want to end the separation of powers, which is the basis of modern democracies. And it's not something new – I told you before too –, we've seen it in 2017, with its famous law of legal transitoryness, that what I intended was for Mr. Puigdemont to elect the judges to his finger in that banana republic that you wanted to impose. You at that time, in 2017, what you intended was to subvert the constitutional order. You wanted to kill Montesquieu at the time, and today you want to kill him again. And it is true that in Sánchez you have found the perfect ally, but I think you should spare us all the lessons of democracy, because I insist that that way of acting is profoundly undemocratic. And, look, I'm going to give you a piece of advice today, we're going to explain a secret, an infallible way to avoid judicialization, which is simple and plain not to commit crimes. It's a legal advice I give you today for free. You, if you do not want to see yourself immersed in a judicial process, if you do not want to end up before a court, then it is as simple as not committing crimes: do not break contracts, do not fragment societies illegally, do not trample on legality, do not embezzle the money of all Catalans by squandering on issues that, I insist, are illegal, and then you will not be involved in judicial proceedings. And no, no matter how much you repeat it, separatism is not persecuted by its ideology. And there, for example, they have the members of the CUP, who are more independent than anyone else, but who also seem to be smarter. So, they are very clear that if you don't want to see yourself in court, you don't have to commit crimes. And it's already – and it's already – as simple as that. It has also been spoken in this motion of that famous table that you bring in your hands with Pedro Sánchez. Of course, if they were still going to talk there about the real problems of Catalans, which is that we're having a really bad time, with an inflation that's in the clouds, with the insecurity of the open occupations, with all the problems we have in infrastructure, then, well, pull that goes with that table. But no, you go to that table to talk about the problems of politicians; of politicians who do not stop causing problems to Catalan society; of politicians who believe themselves to be above the law, above good and evil; of politicians who demand impunity in order to be able to commit crimes peacefully; of politicians who demand impunity in order to tell us that they are going to do it again. Now, that is, this time with guarantees of success; there you have learned. And I can imagine the answer Sanchez gave them. He surely did not tell them that what they had to do was to comply with the laws and the sentences; Sánchez did not tell them that you had to be democrats, and that you already complied with the laws once and for all, which are laws that, moreover, we have given ourselves among all, and there is nothing more to see than the amendments that the Socialist Party has tabled. You also speak here – it has been repeated from this rostrum throughout the afternoon – of repression. But what repression? – but what repression? If they get paid, if there are people in this government who charge more than President Sánchez himself. What kind of repression is that? Repression, saying to drum and platter, for example, the Education Advisor, who does not intend to serve a sentence, and also repeats it by the President of the Government. But what kind of repression is that? You have a concept of repression which, come on, is that it is very broad. Mrs Borràs, who talks about the dirty war of the state, of persecution, but while, on the other hand, there is a position of official of the Spanish state, of that Spanish state so bad. Please, but who do you want to fool? It's just that it's sublime defachation, it's just that I think it's immoral. Here there has been no ideological or any kind of persecution, here what there has been is an investigation by the Mossos d'Esquadra, which turns out they caught Mr.Isaias Herrero, who is convicted of drug trafficking and counterfeiting of coins, talking on the phone – because they had been pinched – saying that he was going to have a brown one – he literally says – if Mrs. Borràs was removed from the Institution of the Catalan Lletres, and that he had his « trapis con la Borràs. That's what happened here. So, when you get caught up with these issues, yes, obviously you have to face a judicial process. Really...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.140.0	Mrs. Roldán, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.141.0	I'm done, President, 'cause I think it's a bit of a haircut. I think you think we're fools, but I'm telling you, no. And, of course, we will vote against this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.142.0	I, finally, now, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta, to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.143.0	Well, thank you very much. Before anything else, I want to thank the presentation of the papers to practically all parliamentary groups in this chamber. We tried to incorporate reflections and nuances, contributions that certainly improved the initial text. Except for the Ciutadans emena, which was obviously a totality emena, as they were able to listen, the rest, therefore, practically can be recognized in all the defined text. And, in fact, we'd like to try to rebut some of the statements that have been made since the Faristol. To Mr Martín Blanco, what is tired is that we have to defend ourselves simply because of what we think, because of what we defend, to defend our political ideas. And that's what's going on, that we, when we defend voting a referendum, do it defending everyone's rights, think what they think and can vote what they want, while you, when you come out here and start making your speeches, what they do is criminalize and dehumanize, as we now feel Mrs. Roldán. And that's really sad. Also Mrs Romero, who was talking about dialogue, debate, negotiation..., here we can certainly find ourselves, but we also invite them to propose, because we don't know what the Spanish State's proposal is yet with regard to the resolution of the political conflict and, therefore, we invite them to do so. And also, and in allusions to the same CEO that you, therefore, remembered, reality is coughing, and two_of_each_three Catalans want to be able to decide the future collection through a given reference, through a given mechanism. So-so, so-so. I would also like to make some final reflection. I'm done, by the way. Mr. Rius, it is not a matter of beneficent res or anyone; it is a matter of iron work, of rowing to build solutions. We see that there is no alternative; if someone proposes tea, we see that there is no other way than the way we propose and that we try to work for ourselves. But it is that, moreover, we are convinced that it is the way that will lead us, therefore, to succeed and assume the reptes col·lectius that we want for our people. And in the same direction, therefore, to the lady of the UPC, Mrs. Sabater, of rendering nothing. It's hard for us to know that the CUP is in such a hostile position. We pick stone, fem, try to build solutions and political fem. Certainly, if there's anything to be dismantled, it's fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.144.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be this late, once the 23rd item of the order of the day is substantial, which is what we're talking about right now. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into policies to curb the illegal occupation of habitats]] [[302-00183/13]] The motion following the Government's inquiry into policies to curb the illegal occupation of housing. It was introduced by the VOX Parliamentary Group, and has the word to expose it to the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.145.0	Thank you, President. VOX has presented for the second time in what we have in parliamentary terms an inquiry to combat the phenomenon of illegal occupation and its consequent motion, because in Catalonia the problem is a problem that has been completely unravelled, thanks to its irresponsible policies, which violates private property, which causes serious problems of security and coexistence, and which generates a great social alarm. And yes, it creates a great social alarm. In the motion I presented last year, Mrs Candela, of the PSC, told me that VOX was an alarmist, that we were dedicated, ourselves, to causing alarm. And there I asked counsel Elena a question about the problem of illegal occupation and the fear people have of occupying her home in the summer. I recognize that the PSC is unique in saying one thing and the other according to the proximity of the elections. But people already know this very well, and we, if not, will remember it every day. In Catalonia, the problem is particularly serious for those Catalans in the most disadvantaged neighborhoods, whom you have abandoned to your fate, condemning them to suffer the phenomenon of illegal occupation in their meats or to live every day with a reality that is a crime and that they therefore have to endure. Or what is already the peak: exposing them to be arrested if they want to recover their home, as a man of eighty-four years has passed and his son of fifty-three in Calella on 13 July, arrested for wanting to recover his house, occupied up to three times. In Catalonia, the occupants are protected and the legitimate owners of a house are stopped and judged. It is good to put the red carpet on the occupied and to condemn Catalonia, year after year, to being the region of Spain leader in illegal occupation. We must take urgent and immediate action and, of course, the solution is not that the Generalitat sends us – with all due respect, I say – to the Social Rights Adviser to this debate in order to deal with these crimes of illegal occupation of housing and to combat the mafias of illegal occupation. We are clear that, in the face of the occupied, zero tolerance. We therefore propose a number of measures to combat the occupation. First, to establish a clear and written protocol that would give security to the Mossos d'Esquadra to expel the occupants in an immediate manner, accepting as a means of proof the beginning of the occupation either the call of a neighbor alerting the entrance or the warning of the alarm system. Two, establish a service to assist and advise those affected by illegal occupation. A single call for an express action of the Security Forces and Bodies and that leads to the immediate eviction of the occupied. Three, develop a specific plan for the protection of communities of neighbours. An occupation cannot be allowed to threaten a family with children, older persons, the elderly in the community or otherwise put the community of owners at risk. We ask, in this case, for a specific protocol in these cases to immediately restore public order in the community of neighbors with police intervention. Zero threats to neighbours by the occupiers. Four, eradicate the mafias from illegal occupation, which offer floors to be occupied, and close the websites and internet domains that promote occupation and, in addition, advertise those floors. Five, specific shielding of social housing for vulnerable people. Six, develop a specific plan to prevent the fraud of mass registrations. Do you know that Convergència i Unió, Mrs. Cervera's party, denounced in its day in Congress that on one floor of Meridiana Avenue more than seventeen thousand irregular immigrants were surveyed? Put an end to the fictitious massive registrations of irregular immigrants so that they get the root and fraudulently regulate their situation in Spain. Illegal occupation cannot be an instrument to promote illegal immigration. Seven, financially compensate the owners who have their homes occupied. There are many families and pensioners who had a second rented home to supplement their pension or help, for example, an unemployed child who now have an occupation. Not only do they not receive rent from the rent, but they still have to pay the IBI, community expenses, electricity, water and gas to the occupants, even under threat of being reported for extortion. The Generalitat has two simple and quick ways to do this, through the aid activated by Decree 401 of 21 and creating a complementary autonomous fund to help these people. And eight, finally, the Generalitat has to urge the Government of Spain to adopt a reform of the laws necessary to combat the occupation, which are the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Civil Procedure Act and the horizontal property law. Look, yesterday, Councillor Elena acknowledged that "legislative changes are being brought to a halt. VOX has already done it. We have fulfilled, in Congress, on 22 June, an extensive proposal for an organic law to combat illegal occupation and proposing all necessary legislative reforms. Stop being on the side of criminals and protect ordinary Catalans. In front of the occupation, immediate eviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.146.0	As no papers have been presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mrs Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.147.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Macian, what a change of height, huh? I've had to put this down a lot. Good afternoon to everyone. We are already arriving at the far end of this plenary, at the far end of the course, and would like to, from this Faristol, to wish a good holiday and a good few days of rest to everyone: to the workers of the Parliament, to the communication media that have followed us and to all the deputies and deputies. Well, the occupation of housing is a diverse phenomenon and, from our point of view, it is essential to address this cross-cutting problem in order to work for vulnerable families, to end up with poor coexistence in communities of owners and barrels of our cities and towns. And to fight seriously against the mafias behind certainly occupations, who are taking advantage of the needs of many vulnerable families. In order to address the situation in which families live in these dwellings, the conditions of habitability are not fulfilled, where the sub-administrations connected are in poor condition. And, you see, from our parliamentary group, we think it's a good tool, making an integral plan for approaching the occupations. Those words I'm saying today, I haven't prepared them for my late intervention. These are exactly the words I had in the plenary on February 23rd, when the Proposition of Law 1/2022 is debated. And these words correspond to the defence of our parliamentary group to a point which was presented to the enunciation of the law: that the Government approve, in the term of six months, an integral plan of approach to occupations. This was not approved; there were votes against all the parliamentary groups; the VOX Group, too. And today the VOX Group presents us a motion with a regular agreement under the title "Interpellation to the Government on Policies to Stop Illegal Occupancy of Habitats". Well, four months ago they didn't agree with this proposal of ours. I'm telling you, we're voting against yours today. But I'd like to end up not just addressing the VOX Group, but addressing the rest of the groups that were proposed by the law and that didn't support this issue either. And about returning to the words of that Ple. What is the reason to consider it not a useful tool, an integral plan to approach occupations? Can any of you beat me up that our cities and towns don't have a problem here? Do you listen to your mayors and mayors? And before a problem, and very big, isn't our obligation to look at it face to face, take it and look for solutions? Think about letting certain right-wing and ultra-right-wing groups take over a populist speech of por, a speech that criminalizes vulnerable families, because we're not able to stand up to this situation? Speeches that – don't be fooled – end up falling like a fine rain. And these speeches are fought with facts, not just words. These were my words and I keep them. And I continue to call on the parliamentary groups that support the Government. Will we reflect, be brave and take this situation across the board and face? Look, less apology and more self-requirement. We have a responsibility; we are the representatives chosen for citizenship to make decisions, and it is our obligation to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.148.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.149.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. « Alarm, « alarm, « alarm, « alarm, « alarm, « alarm, « alarm and until fifteen times» alarm. I think it's one of the times I've felt the most mature technology of product replacement in this room. That's why we start again by asking the Bureau that the advertising spaces of people deprived of security and alarms are once in a while in the hemisphere. Because two weeks ago we saw it as a group in fake propaganda; yesterday we saw it as the PSC also in fake propaganda, and today we see how the extreme right follows it in propaganda. Therefore, I already regulate advertising, which seems to be being made of gold, some, at the cost of this business that is growing thousands and thousands of millions of euros. And it's a big deal because in this issue the PSC, unfortunately, despite being called "on the left, it also bought the mantra and also bought the mark of the extreme right. And he did it as he did with other issues, such as, for example, with murderous migration policies, which led to the death of drawings of people a few days ago in Melilla. And his party, which is in the government, is also not responsible. Spoiler: it's coming out badly. The original always ends up winning the copy and, if not, asks 'ls-hi to Ciutadans. That said, respect the mafias, because we don't stop naming them, because we have so many wills to talk about it, we talk about the real mafias of housing. The real mafias of housing are the ones that develop thanks to the absolute inaction of public powers. And they're the benches, they're the backs and they're the big tenors, they speculate, they leave the people on the street and they tear down barrels and people. These are the mafias. And the absolute inaction against them and, therefore, the absolute impunity with which they act is what causes all this remnant of phenomena afterwards, which is that the people are left homeless, that the people are to be sought for life, that is that the people are to be occupied for survival: 2,410 denunciations between generation and March 2022, one every fifty-five minutes – one every fifty-five minutes. She's a disgrace. And the government of Catalonia, meanwhile, skipped its own laws, and they skipped them to allow these mafias, de facto, to keep on storming against Catalans and Catalans. And we skipped the law we passed on March 3rd here, which says that you can't name a vulnerable family in the property of a back source, in the property of a great lord, without offering it a social logue, and these families are phoning off. And he skipped it on March 3rd, which was approved by this law, he had thirty days to set up the register of great tenors. Today, this register hasn't even gotten in the way yet. And, I repeat, nine thousand denunciations on 2021, 2,410 on 2022, in which we carry, one every fifty-five minutes. And the government hasn't even set up a register that's been three months since it had to keep all the money back and all the big properties on the market. That said, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we have received a few messages for you. For example, from Prosegur, from Securitas Direct, from Movistar: "Thank you for being at our side, thank you for promoting por. We're making ourselves gold. From Santander, from BBVA, from CaixaBank : « Thanks for being defending that we are still stealing the veins and the veins. Last year we got the benefits: €20,000_million. De Blackstone, de Cerberus, de la reste de fonds voltors : « Thanks, many thanks, lords and lords of VOX, we have managed to accumulate 25,000 floors in Catalonia. In Barcelona, the lloger, since 2013, has doubled, many thanks. And from IBEX 35: "Thank you for keeping up with your populism that we are stealing people from gold. We've had benefits of €60,000_million. And we could go on; we also have Desokupa, we also have other newborns, and we have many others. But in any case, I'd like to end up with a collectible message that they've also sent us. This message is from the fifteen-thousand families who were denouncing the Catalan countries during 2021; it is from these people who are denouncing every fifty-five minutes during 2022 in Catalonia; it is from the more than 300,000 working people who, while working, live in absolute poverty, and it is ultimately from the thousands and thousands of Catalans who are being expelled from their barrels, from their vile ones, and who cannot arrive at the end of the month. Stop defending the interests of the old, stop criminalizing and persecuting the poor, stop promoting racism, masculinism and political persecution. And, as we know they wouldn't stop doing it, the final message of all of them, the final message that we also convey to them is that we will pass them through the world.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.150.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.151.0	Thank you, President. It's really hard to make this intervention, because a tea like very little to say or mass to say. So, hard to put it into practice. Basically, I think it can be summed up in two words, that a little represent what VOX thinks it represents in this chamber, right? , which is: barbarity, because it is a sequence of barbarity without meaning, and useless, because the king of what they do for nothing to any of these Catalans and Catalans that you say defend and talk about the real problems of Catalans. You're no use to the king. In this Parliament that they do serve for the king to improve the lives of these people. But it's just that they've had such a mess that, with only one trick of a lifetime, the Mossos have to get into a house and get the people out of it. I have a vision that pleases you for partying with machine music at the nests. It seems to me I'll make a call to the Mossos to see if he disbands per occupation. Because this is a right and right violation of privacy so great that it's really not knowing what they're talking about, because the only one they're looking for is the actual title. And, indeed, I do see, as the Member of the CUP said, that this sentence could encapsulate an announcement of Securitas Direct: « Contracta 'ns. Thanks to us the Mosses will take them out without having to go through a trial or guarantee rights. So, maybe they'd be more useful and do better than advertisers, and, more importantly, it'd be as clear as possible, this relationship you have with all these businesses. You don't talk about people's real problems. You're talking about the problems, which are very small because they don't make them, nor are they pessimistic, of the great lords and of the backs and the benches. Because they also know – and if we look at the data of the same General Council of the Judiciary – that the majority of charges are for crime of usurpation, not occupation of habitation, that they are different crimes. You know that too, don't you? , that when there is the occupation of an empty habitat is usurpation and when it is that of a habitat where someone lives it is another crime, which involves the immediate action of the Mossos with a trick, in this case yes, of the person who lives there and who goes out and makes out to who has entered there, because it is trespassing, and you know it. That's the way it is, and that's the way it is. If you live there, it's a different crime and you can intervene. Therefore, in this regard, I can only see the recommendations made by the Counsel in this sense, the Human Rights Group of the Counsel. So, there are things that we see to Ana Rosa and that we see to Susanna Griso and that we feel the announcement of Securitas Direct and that do not happen – do not happen. Of all the measures, there is nothing to guarantee the right to housing of vulnerable families, which I also inform them: they are not just immigrants without papers, there is a lot of Spanish families with papers that do not have access to housing and that they also occupy, because one contract is finished and they are supported by four hundred euros at a time and cannot pay for it or go to other countries. Or because it turns out that the increase in the CPI applies and they want to push them back and forth one god per cent. This was followed by the adoption of a measure, which was the limitation of the increase in the CPI to two percent. What did VOX vote for? On the contrary, why not, not this, huh? Or, that the owners, following the banks, following the backs, can continue to charge and cause people to leave their homes or not to pay for it, they don't care about that. Actually, I think what they're doing here is so useless that sometimes even thinking about how to answer 'they' is wasting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.152.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, he continues to read the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.153.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen deputies... Well, today we are facing a new motion by VOX, in this case on policies to curb the illegal occupation of housing. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we have put forward a multitude of motions for resolutions in the Committee on the Interior and a number of motions that have been debated in plenary and which, I must admit, have essentially followed a path similar to that followed today by this VOX motion. In some of these proposals some of the points have been approved, but in the main, in what really affects the owners who see their property occupied or usurped by the action of more or less organized occupations, I have to admit that our proposals have clashed with the wall of populism that have raised both the separatists who make up the Government of the Generalitat and those who do little or nothing to face separatism and usually dance the water to the disgovernment of Republican Left and Junts. After this motion, after we vote and fall into the parliamentary basket, the problem of occupation, of the usurpation of housing, the undeniable fact that in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia we continue to camp in its broadest with the approval of several groups of this Parliament – we are seeing it – and without the autonomous government seeking effective formulas to avoid it will remain one of the main security problems facing the citizens who are helpless. Catalonia is at the head of the crime of occupation and usurpation of homes and, despite the fact that some groups in this Parliament – including, for all time, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans – have presented a multitude of initiatives to turn this situation around, which is already unbearable in some Catalan cities, towns and cities, groups that support the Government or consider the occupation a minor problem, provided that it does not affect them in their own flesh, continue to lengthen the citizenry and do not move a finger to alleviate this serious problem of security and coexistence. We are talking about crimes that some groups claim are not even spoken of under the mantra of the alleged stigmatization of neighbours who suffer directly from the consequences of institutional permissiveness of both local and autonomous administrations and the general government. I have said this on numerous occasions and today I will repeat it from this atrium: what really stigmatizes the neighbours, our fellow citizens, in certain populations, neighbourhoods or urbanizations is suffering, day and day too, the unpunished action of the occupants, who use coercion and violence, who repeatedly crime to impose their will and presence on the neighbors who suffer them. That, and not another thing, is to stigmatize: condemn the neighbors to not being able to live in peace and freedom in their own home. But I have already told you that this is a lost battle in this Parliament. The reactionary populism permeates the parliamentary groups that refuse to face this issue, that of the growing and unjustified occupation, when they do not dedicate public resources to facilitate the occupations their criminal actions, as has been done on more than one occasion by the government team of the City Council of Barcelona, that in which Podemos and the PSC coexist, a council that gives spaces to the occupation, that does not confront the incivicos who make life impossible to citizens who cannot enjoy in peace and freedom their own home, their own home, their home, and that even subsidizes formation actions so that the illegal occupations, the usurpations of houses and locals are effective. Let's not throw out the towel. We will continue to explain to our fellow citizens what is the talent of the government and the parties that support it, as well as the collaborative opposition that Podemos and the PSC exercise. This problem requires legislative changes and the collaboration and coordination of all public administrations – the local, the autonomous and the general of the state – being loyal, all of them, with the whole of the citizenry. From Citizens we will continue to work in all areas to end this problem. As public servants, we are obliged to end the impunity of the occupation and the calvary suffered by thousands of citizens who have seen occupied, who have seen their property usurped – often destroyed by the occupied – and devalued their housing because on the farm where they live they have installed, by the brave, true criminals who have made the occupation a modus vivendi, a way of living by the face. Citizens will continue to fight until they get it. We must banish the reactionary populism of the institutions, even though it intends to dress itself of established progressiveism, and we must do so both here and in Madrid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.154.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.155.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, we are going to vote in favour of the points of this motion; many of them, in addition, we share them. We have also put forward initiatives in this direction, we have also put some of these mechanisms in place in other autonomous communities, such as, for example, this telephone support, a proposal that Ayuso made in the Community of Madrid and that is already in place and that works. Also from the People's Party, at the municipal level here in Catalonia, we have proposed the creation of anti-occupation offices so that, especially in those first twenty-four hours, which are fundamental, families who unfortunately have to endure an occupation by the mafias can know where to find information and where to ask for help. I therefore insist that we share not only the proposals, but also the vision of this problem which is particularly affecting Catalonia. Mrs. Candela said she's shutting down the speech of fear. Look, no, Mrs. Candela, what is being silenced are the data, because reality is clumsy and it ends up imposing, and it turns out that Catalonia concentrates forty_per_cent of the occupations taking place throughout Spain – throughout Spain –; forty_per_cent, which we are talking about almost half of the occupations. The reality is clumsy, and so much so that you here today have already had to recognize something that months ago you did not want to do, and that is that this is a problem that is affecting and whipping Catalonia. Yesterday, they even devoted one of the questions in the control session to this phenomenon. Really, what is falling here is the doctrine of the UPC, which is falling into the nationalist parties – and here I also include you – and which is a tremendously hypocritical doctrine. Because you make laws and laws to protect and protect criminals, to protect and protect those mafias from occupation, instead of protecting victims and families. And, if not, stop promoting laws and promoting decrees that do favor occupation. And you, who are in the Government of Spain, have a fantastic tool, which is the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court regulations that, for example, have come out of this Parliament and that protect criminals and yet do not. Do you know who did it? The People's Party. The People's Party has resorted to those decrees which are coming out of this Parliament with its support and which, I insist, deprotect and leave the families helpless. Mrs Segovia said that this is not a real problem for Catalans, that this does not affect families, that this is problems with large properties. Look, I want to remind you, for example, of the case of Pilar, that nurse from Vic who went to work at a hospital in Reus to cure sick people during the pandemic, and in the meantime, while doing that social service, an occupant entered his house, discharged the fiber optics and with that paper was registered. These are the real problems of the people; these are the problems of the Catalans. A few days ago, a father and a son in Calella, who were arrested for taking these criminals out. I insist, it is a very hypocritical doctrine. Let us also remember the mayor of Caldes de Malavella, axe in hand, when some criminals, too, or some occupied entered his property. Instead of having to see images like hacks, what we could do would be make regulations that protect families. Mr. Pellicer, who has also put his hands to the head with this motion and who is always against it – is not in his seat, but someone will tell him – to the actions of the police and that this cannot be allowed..., I want to remember how Mr. Carles Riera, of the CUP, in an interview, when asked what he would do if someone entered his house by force, said to call the Mossos d'Esquadra. Obviously – obviously – call the Mossos d'Esquadra. And that is why it is necessary to modify the protocol and amend the laws, so that the Mossos d'Esquadra can act. And I insist that they are very hypocritical and very harmful, those speeches – I also told Mr. Elena the other day – goodies, that naïve policy that criminals here are the good ones, that we have to help them. No, I'm sorry, we have to protect families, we have to protect the vulnerable. And of course, if there are Catalans and families who need public housing, who have occupied because they have no other remedy, because the public housing policies of the Generalitat leave much to be desired, then we must also remedy it, but we cannot confuse one with the other. And this has become a paradise for the mafias, who come to delinquent, who come to occupy and who also bring other business with them. So, of course, what needs to be done is to strengthen the laws, give more tools to the communities of owners, give more tools to the police forces so that they can evict in those early hours, and – I say again – do not deny reality. So welcome to the Socialist Party. And whenever you want, I say to you, you can challenge before the Constitutional Court those decrees that protect the mafias from occupation and suspend that regulation that does not in any way benefit from that very serious situation that we are living in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.156.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.157.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... well, I'm starting to move on now that, obviously, we'll vote against all of this and all that I've proposed to the ultrathreat in this Parliament. And since they give us a few minutes, then, we'll take advantage of what are the policies on the illegal occupation of Juntes for Catalonia, which, moreover, is very easy for us, because we come from a convention, this weekend, where we've focused our bases, and the ninety-nine percent of our affiliates have approved it. I, therefore, only tell them that Junts per Catalunya is openly against illegal occupations. But it is that, in addition, what has been approved this weekend is to fight criminal occupation mafias of habitats driving the legislative reforms that are relevant to ending these practices. And it's that we don't feed the law's account anymore. We have not invented the standards of coexistence and, therefore, we will not give more play to any party politics than sweeps the pages together. Here are two rights to live together: the right to a decent habitat and the right to property. You, the ultrathreat, look very quickly for this headline, but we have said about this faristol a lot of times: to solve the problem of so many families in Catalonia who suffer from this situation of vulnerability and this lack of housing, but the answer is neither the occupation nor the obligation of private property to make policies that the Public Administration should make. We have listened to the experts many times in many places and they have explained it: Barcelona, Catalonia is not Berlin. Berlin has two owners who have almost forty per cent of their living market, while Catalonia is the micro-owner; this is how our society is made, Catalonia is full of small owners. And from Juntes per Catalunya we make proposals, which I think you don't make; you come, you talk, but proposals don't. We, in Madrid, pushed – and it went down, because it went down the legislature – the Ciuro law, that what it proposed was a proposal that came from the Collège d'Avocats of Barcelona to modify the LEC and also the Civil Code to establish a procedure that guarantees the peaceful use of the "livings to the private owners" – we do not talk about banks or returning funds. Or here to the Parliament of Catalonia, which, when the law of the compulsory social logue was made – badly understood for some parties of the left here, the anti-denomination law, which was not this, the title of the law – was made a law on Together for Catalonia – and deliberately these left groups did not want to point out – made some points that they already said: we guarantee the peaceful use of the "living to that logue who could not pay that logue or to that person who could not pay his mortgage, but through the Generality of Catalonia, and not forcing the private to make these policies. And that's what we approved this month of fever. I believe that all this, all these policies..., these formations – as the CUP and also the common ones have said now – that they always talk about the owners as the great predators could have come to Calella, as we went together for Catalonia, to visit this family, these families who live in these apartments, in the Codina apartments of Calella, and who found that..., they explained to us that throughout their lives they had gone away to have these apartments, that, moreover, they were people who had normal and current professions, as so many people from the city, that they were not multi-owners, and that it turns out that the peaceful use of this 'life has not been guaranteed. And that when this eighty-year-old gentleman comes in and his son is found to have some business in his house. Standards are to be met; everyone knows that a red light means not to pass. And, therefore, all the families of the Codina apartment believe that having that piss on their property guarantees them a peaceful use of this property. The social pressure has caused the court to have gone much faster than usual and to have discharged these jobs and not have to wait for six months. Well, it doesn't turn out that from Juntes to Catalunya we don't only defend the right to property that people have, but also a right to a decent habitation. And we've said it many times in this faristol, all the policies that we've applied: more than sixty-thousand aids in loggers, have been avoided more denunciations than ever, 3,425 habitats acquired through the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, 3,820 managed by entities financed through the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia and the Reallotgem program. And, certainly, to the lords of the CUP, since this day the register of great tenors is in operation; therefore, it is processed. So, when I speak, I speak with property. To the deputies..., all this bench, when I wander to Madrid what you have to do is ask that the Sareb, the floors of the Sareb is made available to Catalonia because all the assemblies and all the cities of this country can make social aid policies to all the people who need it. More than six thousand people who don't have them at their disposal. Ireland made them available; here they gave some money to the banks, which have never returned in the form of social aid to the citizenry. Therefore, the Spanish government should not learn. Gentlemen of VOX, what is a real occupation of housing is what the Spanish government does with the floors of the Sareb, which do not have the citizens of Catalonia at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.158.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.159.0	Well, it looks like we've been getting a little drunk. See if we can clarify this with the last intervention. The first point of the young man says: « To resolutely combat the phenomenon of the illegal occupation of housing in Catalonia, guaranteeing private property. This is the priority of the extreme right. It's like shooting first and asking after: no matter the cause, no matter why those habitats are empty; what's important is to guarantee above all a false order, a false law, which expels every time the most major sectors of our society. And, then, what they propose is that the law is a bit of a jungle law: the only proof, the witness of a lifetime, without having to go through a trial. Precisely, as much as they like the judgments when they go for them, now the issue is that it's the law of the strongest and back to the politics of the sheriffs in the towns. So populism. The following points continue – a specific phone... – depending, therefore, on the priorities and the political framework they want to generate. Look, what causes problems to the communities is a block of empty floors in the center of Manresa, in the center of Sant Celoni, in the center or in the urbanisations of so many other municipalities that have been emptied in the hope that some funds will return with the capital of the United States or of any other country in the world will be paid the profit account in favor of selling much more than they have spent. These are the ones who cause the problems. And the way to offer the mafias, the way to end this sacra is precisely that there are no empty houses that are not intended for which they should be allocated, which is to the habitation, to guarantee the right to the habitation of families. As my company has said before, work is taking place, laws are unfolding to bring out all empty housing parks. And it could be much more, it could be much more if there were more resources; it could be much more if there was a priority on the part of all agents to cooperate to guarantee this right to housing; it could be much more if the Spanish State was dedicated to legislating on that which is indeed its competence, because here it sweeps state legislation with autonomics. Listen, let the State legislate what is its competence and, above all, that I transfer the parks of habitations, which, in fact, are already ours, are of all the citizens, of the Sareb, which are paid with the bank rescue and which are to serve for the people, not to market them, that we have here a bit of sound. [[Some applause.]] They have to serve for the people and the people who need them, and we don't have to pay them again with the money from the joints, which are also everyone's. Another thing that mafias can also offer is to guarantee the right of control to all citizens, because when they end up paying mafias to register and to fraud, it is when there are gatherings that for a populist policy they refuse to register their veins and veins. And that's what we can't afford. Look, you don't want to defend the popular classes; you want to do it by and around, as the company of the commons has said, which is the usual housing occupation – two-hundred and a few more sentences to the whole of the State in 2019 – towards which is the empty housing occupation, usurpation, where there are many more convictions here. But it is still time for all those who put the priority of illegal occupation in their mouths to come here and make legislative proposals to protect the people who have their habitual habitat and who, in change, do not harm the people, so that now what it does is to seek a shelter because it does not have any other option. And that's the problem we have to end up with. We will defend that the public park opens with the policies that we have made so far. Defend, obviously, every family. And that is why Catalan legislation has a concept that you would do well to remember or that we would do well to remember the whole Parliament, which is the social function of housing, which means that property does not only involve rights, but also rights. And one of the reasons is that a habitation must be destined for this, for living, for families to occupy it and viscose it with complete tranquillity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.160.0	The debate is over, so I guess we're going to proceed, all the time, to the vote on the motions that we substantiated this late in points 21 to 23 of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the international political situation and the right to self-determination (continuation)]] [[302-00181/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the situation of international politics and the right to self-determination. We vote points 1 and 4. The vote begins. These points were approved with 78 votes in favour and 49 votes against. We're voting points 2 and 3. The vote begins. These points were approved with 62 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 16 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of repression on independence and democratic standards in the Spanish State (continuation)]] [[302-00182/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the impact of repression on independence and the democratic standards of the Spanish State. We shall vote, first of all, on points 1, 6 ter and 7. The vote begins. These points were approved with 70 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 78 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 32 abstentions. We vote for points 3, 3a, 4 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved with 78 votes in favour and 49 votes against. We're voting point number five. The vote begins. This point was approved with 70 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was approved with 70 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for the 6-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour and 55 votes against. And finally, we vote on point 9. The vote begins. This point was approved with 72 votes in favour and 55 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies to curb illegal occupation of habitats (continuation)]] [[302-00183/13]] Yes, Mr. Joan Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.161.0	Yes, for reading point number one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.162.0	Okay. So we will now vote on this motion following the government's inquiry to stop the illegal occupation of housing. And we had to vote all the points, because there were no separate voting petitions, with the reading asking the secretary first that you do point number 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.163.0	« To resolutely combat the phenomenon of the illegal occupation of housing in Catalonia, guaranteeing the private property, coexistence and security of all Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-07-21-3602.164.0	The vote begins. This motion was not approved with 17 votes in favour and 110 votes against. We're suspending the session. Thank you very much... we're raising it. Thank you very much. [[Rialles.]]
