ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] And, sadly, before I begin with the themes of the order of the day, I must communicate to you a new victim of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior, last May 10 was confirmed that the death in Granada of a woman, Maria, of Penedès was a new case of male violence. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and also to age for its record. So, yesterday we also knew the news of the two Germans Abbas, coming from Terrassa, who were murdered in a trip to their country of origin, Pakistan, after expressing their willingness to divorce their friends, with whom they had been forced to marry. We also show our greatest strength before these terrible crimes, and remember that violence against women is the brute face of masculinism and patriarchy and that they do not understand nationality, ethnicity or social classes. It is simply a sacre that asks all of us, and in no case can we allow it to be served as a political tool. In accordance with the dol protocol of the Parliament of Catalonia, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, this presidency calls a minute of silence to the facenna, at the door of the palau, today at midday to end the plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also, according to the Ministry 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, since the beginning of this year there are a total of 705 victims or missing persons in the Mediterranean. [[Proposal for an extension of the agenda]] And, yes, now, before beginning with the order of the day, at the request of four parliamentary groups, as explained yesterday to the Board of Spokesmen, I propose, in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules, the extension of the order of the day of this plenary session to include a new point in the debate and vote on the proposal for a single reading before the plenary of the proposal for a law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching, with the benefit that the Bureau, which we also did yesterday with extraordinary character, must dispense from the term of forty-hours which provides for the distribution of the document of agreement with Rule 84 of the Rules. If there is no objection, we will proceed to include this item on the agenda, which would be fully substantiated, before initiating the control session to the Government and the President of the Generality. Can we approve this enlargement of the agenda by consent? [[Pause.]] So let's vote on this enlargement proposal. [[Long break.]] So, they made the three calls to vote, before they started the vote, the guess is that there are two deputies who have delegated their vote to this House. Let's start the vote on the alteration of the agenda. The vote begins. With 97 votes in favour and 26 against, the agenda was widened. Before substantiating this new point, I also inform you that the list of questions to answer the Ple orally is enclosed in the file, and, according to Rule 164, will be substantiated this morning, at the end of the debate on the point we have just expanded from the agenda. [[Ask the Government about the impulse to women's sport (possible)]] [[310-00288/13]] And I also take the opportunity to make it clear that, in accordance with the request made by the Government and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, in accordance with Rule 164.6 of the Rules, the question to the Government to answer orally in full on the impulse to women's sport, which has been put by the well-founded parliamentary group and which appears as the question drawn up in the order of the oral questions, will not be raised at this plenary session, and therefore remains adjourned until the next plenary session. [[Proposed law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching]] [[202-00046/13]] And let's go to the debate and vote on the proposal for direct and single reading of the proposed law on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching. In accordance with Article 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Republican Left, Junts for Catalonia and Comú Puermos have called for a single reading before the plenary of this legislative initiative. In accordance with the criteria set by the Bureau, a first debate and vote must be taken because the plenary agreed, if necessary, to proceed to the debate on this single reading procedure, and the debate must revolve around the enabling subject of Rule 138.1, the general value of the text, the opportunity, the principles and the criteria that inform the proposal, following the rules of the full debate. According to what we agreed on yesterday's Extraordinary Spokesman's Board, parliamentary groups will have five minutes each. Firstly, the proposed parliamentary groups are involved. And there's the word, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forward, Mrs Esther Niubó's MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Many honourable President, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Yesterday I passed an intervention that made my parliamentary group last December where we asked in this very same half-sister and rehearse. We demanded that we stop politicizing language and school and act with intelligence, which is not cunning, in the defense of the education system and the best of the language skills of the student. Well, it seems that today four parliamentary groups have succeeded, and it has not been easy to get here. It's cost a lot, I think we can tell. And I suppose that's what happens with the big deals: to deal with those who think the same is simple, but to do it by cutting down on the costs, and we can say that Catalonia in the last few years has been practically impossible. That's why we want to underline the importance of this agreement, of the way we're working. Different political forces, despite having different political horizons and projects, we have shown that reaching agreement on relevant issues is possible. And from the Socialist Group and Forward Units we want to add that it is not only possible, but it is appropriate. And, of this agreement, the language today is reinforced. There's language gain, there's language gain, there's language gain, there's language gain between Catalans and Catalans, and there's cohesion. And so does the education system. We present a proposal for a very brief law on the use and learning of official languages in the non-university teaching that retains the experience of a text already granted for the same four groups on March 24. A proposal that preserves the Catalan educational system with the Catalan language as the vehicle language and gravity center and that also recognizes the castle as the learning language, guaranteeing it the teaching and the curriculum use. It is a very important step in terms of recognition and respect for a language that is not foreign, that cannot be treated as foreign and that is also the first language of many Catalans and Catalans. We have shown that we firmly believe in parliamentarianism, in the close-up of accords. And we do so from the maximum recognition of work, the contributions that the educational community and society in general have made. Because this law is not just of four parliamentary groups, it is of many other people with whom we have spoken, who have brought to it, with whom we have discussed hours and hours; the result of consultations and reflections with representatives of directors and directors of educational centres, teachers and teachers, of movements of pedagogical renewal, of entities of defense of the language of a very different sign, of the concerted school, of the col·legi..., of expert people – jurists, sociolinguists –, of people who have gained, and a lot, and who have been allied to the consensus. And I would especially like to recognize the role of ex-counsellor Irene Rigau, to aggravate much the effort, the work and the predisposition of the negotiating people, the secretary of Linguistic Policy, Mr Xavier Vila, and, obviously, for my part, the initiative and leadership of the president of my group, Salvador Illa, and the good work of the spokesman, Alicia Romero. Certainly not everyone has the same degree of satisfaction with the proposal, but what is clear to a majority of Catalans is that they are not defending languages against others, but that these are tools of communication, of coexistence; they are of understanding, of agreement. And that's very important. And we have said it, sometimes: it is wrong who defends the català against the castle, the same way that does it who defends the castle against the català. And from the Socialists and Units Group to Advance we believe that the new law improves the education system, makes a consensus that in the last few years it had left, breaks the bloc policy – as we have not seen before – and updates the legislation and adapts it to the educational reality. And so we also allow a better compliment of the judicial sentiments, taking into account the necessary flexibility and adaptation of each educational project to the socio-linguistic reality of each centre, of each environment, the results of the assessment of the linguistic skills written until today– and, moreover, we add the oral ones–, and also all the resources and learning spaces in the current context of educational transformation. So, we've done politics, we've filled a blank law that had filled the courts before the inaction of the past few years. And, in addition, we establish the pedagogical criteria, which are the ones that must determine the presence of the languages in the institutes, schools, educational centres, their linguistic projects and in the curriculum, remain in subjects or areas of competence. In short, the proposition of the law that we present preserves the essential of our educational model, the best. It is a fair law that does not challenge the courts or seek confrontation, which seeks to be solutions and great country agreements. And, therefore, it is an agreement that we have enjoyed that it was still wider. We don't want to take this opportunity to invite other parties to join us. And we understand that it is necessary to adapt the rules in force, and we do, and, in addition, we do so with as much consent as possible. So, thank you very much to everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.3.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.4.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. To share with me today is a good day, today is a good day for Catalonia. And today is a good day for this Parliament to renew its cross-cutting commitment to linguistic immersion. And today is also a good day because, after many years, we also manage that in this room we reach a cross-sectional agreement that goes beyond the logical and the old blocks. And from now on we can already tell them that we wait and work so that this cross-cutting agreement follows the first of many. Before I enter into the matter, I would like to value the work of all the people who have made it possible for this agreement to see the light. They have worked tirelessly for many hours, but, if I may, I would also like to bring home and quote and pose and highlight, therefore, the pocket of the spokesman of our parliamentary group, David Cid, because I am convinced that without his ability to recapture positions and make proposals this agreement would surely be more far off. There have been two months of intense negotiations, two months of agreements and disagreements, two months of working against clockwork since the High Court of Justice set our educational centers and also our faculty on the day. But, as the saying goes, it's worth more than ever. And, he said, I'd really like to do an honest exercise. And I think they should also share with me the image that we have given during these last weeks, of picararalles, of inability to agree on a question as central as the català, I think it is the image that explains why every day more Catalans and Catalans each time feel more distant from politics. And that's why I think the least we can do is send an apology message to the educational centers, to the faculty, to the educational community, after these two months of uncertainty that we might have been relieved of. Mirin, from In Comú We may have worked from the first moment with four objectives. The first was that you made a law. Why a law? So because to regulate the rights – and in this case we're talking about linguistic rights – it wasn't enough a decree, too, as a law. The second is that this law had to have the maximum transversality, because neither the school nor the català are owned by one or the other, they are the heritage of all and all. The third was to shield the language immersion model, and therefore to ensure that the català follows the vehicle language and that the castle is a learning language, because this is the model that allows children to master the two languages when they finish compulsory education. And the fourth was burying the percentages, which they have nothing to do with the pedagogical criteria, and also burying the Wert law, which was already repealed at the Congress of Deputies. And, in this sense, I would also like to put in value that without the derogation of the Wert Law and the pocket of En Comú Podem, but also of the Republican Left and the Socialist Party, to incorporate the protection of immersion in the new law of education, in the LOMLOE, surely this armor that this week lasts in term for immersion would not be possible. Therefore, when some want to equate, when some continue to make no distinctions between Minister Wert and the current coalition government, with all the 'charity', you are missing the truth. And I wouldn't want to end up without two more points. The first is for all those, for all those who I am convinced will continue to try to bring down the linguistic immersion pattern of our educational centers. You won't make it. You won't make it. And you won't do it because linguistic immersion is what guarantees equal opportunities, it's what guarantees social cohesion, and because if our opinions and our lives, our parents and our seas were before, to push it forward, now we're also here to defend it. [[Greetings.]] And because I am very conscious... and, moreover, I say it with knowledge of cause, and not as the daughter of immersion, sadly, that I do not know it, you know that I do not know it, but because I have to present that thanks to the work of many families, families like mine, I today and now I can make a speech in català or valencia, because, for much that I do not like them, they are the same language and they are two different dialects. [[Greetings.]] And the second point, and this one goes mainly for the government... the educational centers didn't have, they never had a problem with language, they never had a problem with català. The educational centres, counselor, as you know, have other problems, which are said to be segregation for socioeconomic reasons, "retails that still grow, "early school leaving... And I only mentioned three, but I could go on, and you're late to solve these problems. But I will tell you more: we do have a problem in Catalonia with the social use of català, that each time it is less used, and this responsibility cannot be dropped on the teachers' scales either. Therefore, counsel, let us hope that the national pact for language gives fruits before [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and we also ask the government – and finally, president – to put more effort, more resources and more imagination into making catalá an attractive language for everyone, but above all, for the youngest people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.5.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Mònica Sales, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. President, councillors, deputies... we've just started the debate to approve this process of law's proposal on the català at school. We started it right now because the constant persecution that our language suffers always keeps us alert, and because, unfortunately, time runs and does not run in a favorable way either for the català or for thousands of teachers we have from the classrooms of the country making a magnificent pocket. This time that runs makes us position in favor of this proposal of the law. The Catalan school model is a good to preserve, a consolidated and recognizable model, and for Junts for Catalonia this will always be a topic for our political day to day. The judicial interferences, always present, want to condition this model, and it is for this reason that they call political actions to do it. After intense weeks, we have come to a consensus that allows us to highlight the three premises that, from the first moment, Juntes per Catalunya we have placed as main ones: that the Catalan language is, without possible interpretation, the vehicle language of our schools, the vehicle language of reference; that the Catalan language is the language that begins to gather– and, therefore, we guarantee linguistic immersion as an instrument to develop in català – and that the teachers need political action to feel protected before a highly politicized justice that sees the languages as a threat and not as an opportunity, that sees the languages as a tax based on quotas. It is for this reason that it is fundamental that we have been able to agree and write in the text that the learning of languages is only done taking into account exclusively pedagogical criteria, and therefore leaving behind what dictates a feeling that only wants to weaken the catalá, precisely when it is already a minority language that needs all the support, all the attention and all the resources. In this present scene, which we do not only understand with the proposal of the law, but also that we add the proposal of decree to the law that we have made to the government and that we hope that it is possible to finish working, open to everyone, because it is approved and then validated here in Parliament, we celebrate being able to give answer to the direct staff and to the teachers, who see the question too much under his excellent work. Teachers who have been asking for the man and who, with this double action, from Parliament and from the government, we can give them an answer. To prepare this ad hoc law that today begins its journey to the hemisphere has allowed us to give compliment to our firm commitment not to touch the law of linguistic policy. We have made an armory, in this case, yes, with all the guarantees, and we are not greatly satisfied. We haven't touched a coma. Unfortunately, this armor can't be said in this way so bluntly for what it does to judicial agencies in relation to language, but staying in our arms is no use. We need to respond to the judgment, to listen to it and to find a way to give it a compliment, and from Junts to Catalunya we value the work done and the work to be done in order to broaden the consensus as far as possible. We've never been closed to anything, we've always been open to all the proposals to debate them and to study them. We are here with the few on the ground and without wanting to blow up pigeons, aware that we live in a state that fights against the languages to make them weak, because I do not conceive them as a good to preserve; aware that we have to be careful with unfair Spanish justice, but also aware that if the teachers ask for help we have to be with the maximum guarantees. The security of the centers is cabdal, especially in a context of maximum defencelessness, because there it is possible to do well the work that they have ordered the long list of masters who see on May 31 the timing of the threat and fear. The defense of català and the model of catalana school has a clear ally in Juntes for Catalonia, and for this reason these weeks we have worked without rest. I would like to take advantage of this moment to thank all the people of Junts – executive, parliamentary group – who have spent the day on this subject; all the people of the entities and of the educational community who have been heard; and the Members of the groups with whom we have agreed, for this honest work that we have done among ourselves, in positions of ‘yes' and ‘no' positions that we have reached where we are. And, if I may, so does the Secretary of Linguistic Policy, Xavier Vila. The year 1976 Mercè Rodoreda said: "Language is the soul of a country and deserves many attentions. And, look at her, we've worked these days. Let's defend the català firmly and make it clear that the Catalan school model is not touched. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.7.0	And, finally, in this block of intervention of the proposing groups, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word of the deputy Josep Maria Jové... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, Mrs. Marta Vilalta... thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. To do politics and try to be useful to the citizenry is to try to solve the problems, face the challenges, find and build solutions; it is to complete the commitments and the art of doing that things that happen, because they contribute to the common good, to the good collection. We have to do self-criticism sometimes, because we don't just get out of everything. Others, in change, even though he's in extremes, yes, and today is one of these days. It is one of these days, because we present an agreement, a proposal for the fruit of an agreement, the fruit of a consensus. An agreement that's amplified. An agreement signed between four parliamentary groups of this chamber and representing the eighty_per_cent of the Parliament, is to say, the eighty_per_cent of the reflex of the society of our country. An agreement to protect the Catalan school model and thus avoid judicial interferences that want to impose percentages on classrooms that have no sense. An agreement that we knew... that we know we had to count on as much consensus as possible, because when we talk about teaching, when we talk about Catalan language, we talk about how we guarantee social cohesion, equal opportunities, how we avoid segregation and also how we avoid fractures for linguistic questions. And here is where always, with society, with the country, we have found a broad consensus. We will not and will not allow them to divide us as the society for linguistic reasons. They will always find us in front of those who want to – those who, in fact, still want to – use the language in a partisan way to generate conflict, those who want to divide us with the country, those who want to win in court where they are not able to win in the polls. For this reason, before this need for adaptation and updating of the language system in Catalonia, the fruit of legal, social, pedagogical and technological changes, but also, and above all, the fruit of judicial engineering, we have worked to maintain this essential consensus. And when that consensus was diluted, we worked to rebuild it, to rebuild it. A consensus that is political, but also pedagogical and also social. And we've been talking intensely to each other, but also talking to the educational community, with entities, to generate complicity and alliances. And we'll keep doing it. And we will do as much as we need, because we want to follow these consensus builders, because in the defense of Catalan language there is no one left. On the contrary, it makes us all strong, because the defense of the catalá is more effective and efficient when we have the ability to add indisputable majorities. That is why today I also want to thank everyone who has made it possible, especially the parliamentary groups undersigned, to Mònica, to David, to Alicia, to all the people we have worked on; also, from the Parliamentary Group of Esquerra, to Mònica Palacín, to all the team, but also to Esther, to Albert, to Francesc, to Jess, to Irene, to Raquel, especially to the Secretary of Linguistic Policy – Mr. Francesc Xavier Vila – and to the members of the Government, especially to the President of the Generality, who has also worked for this negotiation. And, obviously, to entities and organizations, as much of the educational environment as they work in the defense of culture and language and in its impulse. Among all and among all, with responsibility, with generosity, we have made it possible to rebuild a consensus that at some point seemed impossible. We'll have time to talk about the content, but from the Republican Left we've been defending that they'll keep all the tools they can to defend the Catalan school model. That's why we're celebrating this double initiative, today, with the law we're bringing to debate, and, a few days ago, with the decree that the government will approve. A law that is a specific law, that must give us this legal mark and the coverage to put in value, to make the pedagogical criteria prevail. A law that fixes the català as the vehicle language and learning language and also as the colliding language of the new student. And a law that regulates the castle in the terms that fix the linguistic projects and that determines that the linguistic projects only take into account the pedagogical criteria, the socio-linguistic situation and the objectives of linguistic normalization and learning of the student. A law that we want to be sent for single reading and for extraordinary urgency, with the possibility, with the will to dispose of the new legal framework as quickly as possible. And this will be accompanied by a decree that will allow us another great objective: to give coverage and protection to the center addresses, to make the Education Department, therefore, from the government..., to take responsibility and to follow up, validation, approval and evaluation of the linguistic projects of each center. And we go on, 'cause we can't just hang out here. We have a consensus, but we want to expand it. And that is why we also invite the Parliamentary Group of the CUP to work to find a way to strengthen this consensus, from the diversity of each of us, from each of the parliamentary groups, but from the strength that gives us knowledge that when we are able to build folds, then we are moving much better. And to follow, he said, because, further beyond the law – and with this end – from the law and from the law decree, we want to continue working to protect the Catalan language at all times, with the impulse to school as well, but also with the national language pact, which must enable us to strengthen this pillar of our society, the Catalan language, which guarantees social cohesion, which guarantees equal opportunities and guarantees equity. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.9.0	Then, to position himself, has the word, first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.10.0	Thank you, President. Are we here to deal with a one - read emergency law to help Catalans alleviate the rise in supplies, with urgent measures, with tax cuts, with aid? No, that's not an emergency. We're being summoned to fail to comply with court sentences once again. Look, this process of law is not urgent. The sentence is 2020, but you, as always, last minute, country agreement, huh? , until the last moment, speeding up compliance and trapping the population, because the executioner..., the deadline is 31 May, but the sentence comes from 2020. There is no consensus. If they consulted the citizens, they would realize that there was no consensus. Consult citizens if they want Spanish also to be present in the classroom as a vehicle language, especially the voters of the PSC and Podemos. Nor does the sentence of the minimum of twenty-five_per_cent, because it does not speak of that minimum of twenty-five_per_cent – ridiculous, on the other hand. This is a cheating law reform. Esquerra, Junts, PSC and En Comú Puedes stage a cheating pact to avoid this obligation of the Generalitat to comply with this sentence, which establishes, as I say, this ridiculous twenty-five_per_cent of the presence of a Catalan language as is Spanish to our schools. In the cheating pact they reaffirm that Catalan is the only language to use – that's why Junts feels so comfortable – while Spanish will be used as the language projects of each centre set out. It is intended to give an appearance of fulfillment, but the reality is that this fulfillment is totally non-existent. Thus, the bill still does not include Spanish as a vehicle language, despite the express request of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. This presence of Spanish is not guaranteed in this twenty-five_per_cent– ridiculous, minimal – established by the court, but it is left to the arbitrariness of each center, which in turn will have to follow the instructions of Mr Cambray's so liberticated council, which, of course, has not said what his instructions will be. This law is a trap and a cowardice; yes, a trap and a cowardice, because the judgments are fulfilled, and you are accustomed to being above the law and above the judicial judgments, because you are better than anyone else. Do not talk about a country consensus, because we are neither a country – som una region d'Espanya – nor is there a consensus. And if not, look at this camera, and as I told you before, consult the citizens. You are freed and refuse to understand that in our home, in Catalonia we have two languages: Spanish and Catalan. And they refuse to recognize that Spanish is the common language of all Spain, the majority in Catalonia and a privilege that speaks 600_million people in twenty countries, who have it as their official language. [[Some applause.]] Mrs. Albiach, I don't know what trouble you had, personal. I the català spoke it at home, but to cohesion it also served Spanish. In fact, I went to La Salle and they let me go to school in Castilà. [[remorse of the voice]] precisely because we spoke in Catalan at home. Because Spanish also cohesions, not only does Catalan cohesions. You have been told that you can only co-ordinate the population with one language, and you can co-ordinate with freedom, with both languages, with wealth and with love for the common, which is the Spanish language. [[Some applause.]] Is it so hard for them to hear that he's good for the students of Catalonia, that Spanish is present in the classroom? Is it so hard for them to hear this reality, so that they have Spanish as their own language, to learn to read and write in their own language? Is it so hard for them to hear it? Or for what they only speak Catalan at home, what good is it to learn to speak Spanish well? Is it so hard for them to hear it? Are you so sectarian? In the field of law, in the field of freedom, in the field of practice..., in all these areas it is important and it is good that Spanish is present, but you are very sectarian and unable to see it. That's why the courts have to come and remember them, because you just can't. And what a pity, what a pity the PSC and Podemos, playing the separatists once again. What a pity for the Catalans who vote for them, who speak Spanish in their homes and who want to exercise freely..., with what language they want their children to study in school – with both of them, with one... – and, of course, to ensure that they can do so in common. Look, neither the PSOE nor the PP, when they have ruled with absolute majority paths repeatedly, have guaranteed..., have guaranteed that Spanishol is able to study all of Spain, all of the national territory. But I'll give you good news: sooner than later... sooner than later, VOX will rule Spain. VOX will rule Spain [[remorse of the voice]] and will ensure that Spanish can be studied throughout the national territory. Also at our home, in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.11.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.12.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. This law they present today is the fruit of a decision that it took months ago. Not two, more: concretely, after the Supreme Court fell on November passed the appeal of cassation of the Generality to put a stop to the judgment of the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. Today you are presenting the result of this almost half a year of secret work, between parties, of hope not only of this chamber, but of the educational community, of the entities for the language, which, yes, after you present the result because the well-being, you are invited to benefit this result. I would like to say that the first result was a proposal to amend the law on language policy which, after and thanks to the popular pressure, fell. This fiasco, however, already made clear the intentions of the strategy with which you wanted to give an answer to this judicial debate: to adapt the legal framework to the judgment. Despite the touches of this first proposal, what we have today on the table continues to respond to the same mark, the same layout and the same objectives as that first failed law proposal: to adapt the legislation to the twenty-five-per-cent judgment. It is to say, to convert the feeling into law – to convert the feeling into law. Today, here, the members of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia are not Members of Parliament. You sell, when we vote, when we press this button of the vote, who will press the button to convert the castle into a curriculum language will be the robes, that whatever they do... And say it as you say: "Curricular, "learning..., it's the same, it's ultimately vehicular, as Mrs. Romero acknowledged yesterday herself on the press wheel, which was certainly the best evidence of the contradictions and lies that this law proposal holds. Today we are witnessing a fateful historic day in Parliament: that it is law against the Catalan back in the current legislation and that it is the next parties of the Government of the Generality that pushes it and makes it possible... And they will, in addition, carry responsibility to the center. Yeah, that's right. They said the language projects will be validated by the Department. That is what they said, but we know that each centre will have to draft and agree on its own linguistic project. Let's think about the situation we're in right now. It is irresponsible: at a time of judicial pressure, the establishment of the extreme right, let us leave initiative and responsibility in the hands of the centres. So we can accept that, depending on the school you are in, you find a different language model, because this – and you know it all – has a name, this opens the door to school segregation for a reason of language. I believe that the key was to ensure that all the students had access to the language of the country, not to be secreted by reason of language. Therefore, let us not deceive ourselves: the benches of the right and the ultra-right will never have enough; they will not have enough, for this purpose to further diminish the language. And here it must be very clear. The purpose of the sentence is not to make a twenty-i-five_per_cent, it is not to make a twenty-i-five_per_cent of castle at school. The goal is to convert the castle into a learning language and vehicle. That's their goal. Why do they think they've got a copy of the curriculum? They have gathered this claim from LOMLOE that seeks not the twenty-i-five_per_cent, seeks the fifty_per_cent. This is the true key to the sentence – and I ended up, President – and that is exactly what you are doing with this proposal. Using the euphemisms they use, say what they want, today Parliament is turning the castle into a vehicle language for the first time in forty years of history. And to be clear – we know very well –: there is no magic formula that allows you to complete the feeling and, at the same time, protect the immersion, because the feeling, precisely, is against immersion. But the answer follows a setback to the laws in force is to fall into the trap. Can you give the answer to the sentence? [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Yes, obviously – I finish, President – but they do not carry the immersion, but reinforce it politically, reinforce it here in Parliament and reinforce it by allocating the necessary resources. It is an intelligent, well-thought-out country answer; an answer that, we do not deceive ourselves, will not be easy or simple, but that we must prepare it among all. And finally, and from here on, we send today, the day of struggle of the educational community, our strength to the faculty that these days fought to defend the public school. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.13.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.14.0	Ladies and gentlemen, the urgent procedure with short deadlines for a single reading of this law is based on one purpose: to urgently articulate a new fraud against the Constitution, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and all families with children in Catalan educational institutions. It is a useless fraud legally, but politically useful to the nationalists and the Socialist Party. Esquerra Republicana is already stating in media that under no circumstances is the Spanish language to be used in school, and Junts per Catalunya is making similar statements. On the other hand, the media close to the Socialist Party, almost touchingly, already lie and make-up, and headline: "Independence accepts that Spanish is a language of learning. Do you accept that Spanish is a language of learning, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray? Do You Accept It? Say yes or no. [[Rialles.]] He doesn't say anything. But I'm telling you, if you're going to say yes, say it before May 31st in court. I don't think he's gonna do it. This very urgent law has only Catalan as a vehicle language, and not Castilian. The Castilian relegates it to the language of the curriculum, which already is, because the Castilian is a subject of the curriculum. The vehicle language is not a curriculum language. The court demands..., vehicle, and at least twenty-five_per_cent. And this law neither consecrates it as a vehicle nor gives it twenty-five_per_cent. Nationalism in Catalonia has been disloyal to the constitutional pact since minute one. It is already forty years of betrayal of the constitutional pact. The Law on Linguistic Normalization of 83 established the schooling in the normal language of the child and the progressive teaching of Catalan to all. But this was not achieved, but the Spanishman was gradually expelled from the Catalan education system and de facto reduced to the category of foreign language. Neither the governments of Spain nor the two major political forces of bipartisanism in the Congress of Deputies, nor the socialists nor the populars in this same Parliament, nor the Ombudsman nor the Sindico de Greuges, were able to object to the slightest in the face of an abuse of such magnitude. The Language Policy Act of 98, the Statute of Autonomy of 2006 and the Catalan Education Act of 2009 made the abuse systemic. And you, the nationalists, always in the demolition of the Spanish, in the eradication of the Spanish and of everything that sounds like Spain, behind all those illegal rules protected by political and communicative omertà, you have had a cooperator necessary to order them, the Socialist Party, a Socialist Party that says a few things on television and to its voters and that pacts the opposite in the offices with absolute shame, Mr Illa. No, this is not the 'consensus for language, as you call it; it is an imposition on all Catalans. You want to win for 100 to zero, and you don't deserve to be seventy-five to twenty-five. Doesn't this go in percentages? And, then, why do you demand a hundred per cent? The Catalan is of all, not of you, and it will not be extinguished or used less because there is one more trunkal subject – one – in Spanish in schools. Again the Socialist Party betrays its voters for making the fat broth of separatism. Today it is a Socialist Party of Catalonia led by a former minister who maneuvers to maintain the fateful alliances of Pedro Sánchez and who continues to rule in Moncloa as it is. Today the Socialist Party supports the nationalist regime by agreeing with the most extreme separatism this shameful text. At a time when the courts force the Government to respect the rights violated to so many families forced to silence before an unjust educational system, the PSC and the commons, the coalition that governs in Spain, prefers to whitewash nationalism and disauthorize the judiciary. We will not only resort to this rotten fruit of the Socialist Party's alliance with nationalism, we will not only urge criminal actions against those who disobey the sentence, since compliance does not enter into the plans of nationalism; we will also commit ourselves to all Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards to which Citizens will promote the legal reforms that are necessary until in all Spain [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I finish already – all citizens are truly free and equal, especially in Catalonia, where rights are trampled on by a trembling, manipulative and extreme nationalism, with the invaluable collaboration, unfortunately, of the two parties that govern Spain. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.15.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.16.0	Thank you very much, President. We have only five minutes, which makes it impossible to delve into a debate such as linguistics, which requires time, serenity, rigour, data..., in short, the normal in the democratic debates of modern societies, something that you deny by dealing with by one reading, in secret and in all haste, because in reality you deny the fundamental debate. According to you, immersion is sacred. It cannot even be discussed, even though it does not apply anywhere else in the world where two or more official languages converge. In any case, and if it is confirmed that on Friday we will have full time to discuss it with a little more depth, we will already provide data, arguments and our vision on the issue. So let's go, therefore, to the essentials. You approve here today a document recognizing in conscience that it is a race of euphemisms and subterfuges to circumvent the law and not to abide by court sentences, also using the educational community as a shield. They claim that it is they alone who assume the responsibility to comply with the law, leaving them absolutely abandoned and unprotected. We know perfectly well how this path ends, it has gone many times: erosion of institutions, discredit, frustration. With that system you've been tearing down Catalonia for ten years now, and you don't freak out. In the end the rule of law is always imposed, but on the way they destroy everything absolutely. What is really serious, in any case, today is that the Socialist Party of Catalonia explicitly joins that strategy, because what they are about to do here today is no longer the calculated and legendary ambiguity of the PSC when it comes to discussing sensitive issues, no; to avoid in writing the compliance of a sentence with euphemisms and subterfuges is already purely separatist technique, Mr Salvador Illa. They have, in fact, coined expressions to define what you are doing today– « l'astúcia, « les jeugades maestres», and we already know how the master moves of these gentlemen end. I solemnly ask you, Mr. Salvador Illa, to reflect on whether it is worth copying that way. You know that I try to measure the words well and escape from the ex-abrupt, but you are a few minutes away from taking a step that has no return: to add to the cunning and masterful plays of separatists to circumvent the law. You did not say in an election campaign that you would do that, Mr. Illa; in fact, in an election campaign you said you would fight that, which are very different things. Doing so politics, massively deceiving citizens with cunning and masterful moves, of course, for me, is not worth it. Because not everything is worth, Mr. Salvador Illa, for a few votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.17.0	Thank you very much. So, after the debate, I call for a vote so that I can proceed to the vote on the proposal for direct and single reading before the plenary of the bill on the use and learning of official languages in non-university teaching. We understand, at the time of the vote, that the affirmative votes are in favour of their processing and that the negative votes are against their single reading. The vote begins. In view of the result of the vote, and in accordance with Rule 138.1 of the Rules of Procedure, with 105 votes in favour and 28 votes against, this motion for a resolution will be dealt with in a single reading before the House. For this purpose, the Bureau has set the deadline for the presentation, both total and joint items, approximately two hours ago. I mean, at the twelve hours of today's scale, it's going to end this period of presentation. Then we turn, now yes, to questions with oral answer in the plenary, the first point of the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about its campaign for the Olympic Winter Games]] [[310-00295/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on its campaign in favour of the Olympic Winter Games. The question is posed by Mr Marc Parés of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. This past week we have seen how the Government of the Generalitat made a campaign to promote the Olympic Winter Games, just a few days before the President signed the decree calling for the consultation to the Pyrenees. Could you tell us how much money the Government of the Generality has already spent in promoting games that are supposed to be the citizens of the Pyrenees who have to decide whether or not they want them? Is that how the Government of the Generality intends to guarantee the institutional neutrality that the first law of consultation establishes between its general principles?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.19.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.20.0	President, thank you. MPs, MPs... Mr. Parés, the government is always campaigning to explain those opportunities that are being presented to the country to try to take advantage of them. And we understand, from the government, that games can be, if we don't mess with each other, an opportunity for the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.21.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.22.0	Miri, on May 15th, thousands of people were demonstrating in Puigcerdà for a living Pirineu, defending a model of territorial development based on economic diversification, access to housing, access to public services, the relationship of youth to the territory..., a whole series of questions that are antagonistic to the model of tourism monoculture and job insecurity in which we have been installed in the past decades and that the Olympic game project will only reproduce. But it seems that all these arguments can't be discussed in terms of equality, because, look, counselor, allocate public resources to try to condition the outcome of a popular consultation has a name, and that's manipulation and rough play. Not only for the advertising campaign they have made, but for the numerous contracts intended for the promotion of games that, as I said, so..., is the country's citizenship, which we still don't know what the project is itself, since today we don't know such important issues as the global economic cost, planned investments, energy or water consumption or environmental impacts and..., etc. Look, if they really believe that of democratic radicality, they stop wanting to manipulate public opinion with advertising spots and facilitate all the information. If you really believe that of democratic radicality, guarantee that the Stop Olympic Games platform will have the same means that you have to defend the project. Because, frankly. tendentious campaigns like we've seen this week don't just delegitimate the consultation and the project, but, in the background, delegitimate you as rulers. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.23.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.24.0	Well, thank you. Mr. Parés, the government has to be in favour of all the initiatives that the country projects abroad and that carry investments and stimulate the economy; that carry economy, economic activity for the services of the Pyrenees, in this case, for the shops, for the shops, for the restaurants, for the hotels. And with initiations with this, they're always in favor. We don't manipulate anyone. We listen to those who cry and listen to those who say nothing. They're gonna have to listen to each other, too. They're also Catalans, they're also living in the Pyrenees, and we need to listen to them. Next thing. Miri, I want to claim the tourism industry. It is an industry, that of tourism, which is systematically lacking for some groups in this room, and tourism is the doze_per_cent of GDP in Catalonia and gives jobs to 424,000 people living from tourism. Therefore, we try to have a little respect for a sector like tourism, that France or Italy, but also Islam, a very advanced society and that has an extremely fragile natural environment..., Islam also considers the tourism strategic, and the promotion and the pull forward. Therefore, tourism we have to claim and we have to defend. The second thing. Miri, we have always been committed – and so it will be – that the Olympic games, if they are finally celebrated in Catalonia, will be sustainable: economically sustainable, because the return will be superior to the reversal, and environmentally sustainable. And lastly, I'd like your group and Mayor Colau to be as excited about Olympic games in the Pyrenees as they are with an American cup in Barcelona. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.25.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the measures taken to be able to deal with the payment of sub-administration invoices.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.228.0	[[310-00294/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.26.0	Thank you. What steps are being taken to enable Catalans to pay for supplies bills?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.27.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.28.0	Thank you, President. The extreme right not only lives in the wrong decade, but, in this case, also asks the question in the wrong place. If you want to ask about the light rates, you have to do it at the Congress of Deputies, because this is a prerogative of the State. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.29.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.30.0	Thank you, Counselor. I'll explain, you've got a lot of work to do. Families have become increasingly difficult to pay for the light, gas or fill the tank of our car. Companies and the countryside lose competitiveness, and they have to close because it is an economic ruin to take care of supply invoices, and these increase their products. And we have two alternatives: the proposal of the globalist elites made in Davos, of which you are a loyal franchise and who have brought us this situation, or the proposals of common sense, green conservatism and respect for people, which defends VOX. You bet on these first ones: Davos' instructions, 2030 agenda and obey the globalist elites; that is, green fiscal hell for the families and businesses of Catalonia, restrictions of circulation and multitude of taxes to harm the most humble, and indoctrination and course advice to blame people for their way of life with tips like "your farm kills, "your trash you take out when I say with door to door, "you recycle, the Administration will not do it, "put the air to so many degrees and, of course, the heating at that time of the morning or the morning, because, if not, you will not be able to pay the receipt of the light. That is, you are unable to offer effective measures against energy poverty or to reconcile respect for the environment with our way of life. That is why VOX proposes green conservatism in the face of ecological hysterism. How? Taking care of our land, our customs, our people and our jobs. And so we demand that the Generalitat, with its powers, abolish its own environmental taxes and urge the Government of Spain to remove those that impose light to help families; boost energy sovereignty in Spain, in Catalonia, using our potential with renewable energies and considering nuclear energy also as valid and as green energy; enhance food sovereignty and protect our field; encourage reforestation and care for the improvement of our basins – this too can be done, Mr Torrent, the Generalitat – with the aim of enhancing the natural solution of CO2; help companies – also can be done by you – drastically reducing the environmental regulation that harms them, and suppress all the costs of entities and chills and climate costs dependent on the Generalitat, Mr Torrent; direct support to families that cannot pay the receipt of light – you can do so too, Mr Torrent – ; less separatist ideology, less fleeing from the study, less helping people and ecology. Less agenda 2030 and more agenda Spain. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.31.0	To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.32.0	Miri, deputy, during 2020 and 2021, from the Government of the Government of the Government of Catalonia we have been the Administration, at the conjunction of the territory of the State, that more aid has made to the sectors affected by the situation of covid and its derivatives – among others, at the price of energy– : 3,182_million euros mobilized in aid, I insist, to the productive sectors, but also to those people and the most vulnerable families. Broadly speaking, the territory of the State that you help the most has done in this sense, you address especially to those who suffer the most, as you help them to pay the bill for the light, the fruit of an oligopolistic situation, of a market that is regulated, as it says before, from the State and that we have demanded that it be done, that prices be limited, for example, of gas, as it finally seems, to be, to impact on the tariff and because this ends somehow, therefore, aiding, obviously, the development of the country's businesses and families. Therefore, we have made an important effort from this point of view; a pal·liatiu effort, it is true, because what it plays is impacting on the market, impacting on how the price of the light is structured. And that, I insist, is where we are to complain, which is in the Congress of Deputies, which is in front of the Spanish Government. But in any case, this is the same for you, because, in fact, the question was an excuse to be able to do what you have always done historically, which is to take whatever is on the table in the public debate, whatever time it is now not the country, no longer the society, but the conjunction of humanity, to try to make those who are more vulnerable, those who suffer the most, have to hold on, with a speech of por, of hatred, in this case against an evidence such as climate change. Listen, it's you who are in absolute contradiction and against the direction of the conjunction of humanity. We are here to help the most vulnerable, families, businesses in the country, and at the same time fight against evidence, which is the climate change. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.33.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the actions planned for the Department of Education to complete the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. [[Ask the Government about the actions planned by the Department of Education to complete the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia]] [[310-00282/13]] The question is posed by Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.34.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, I would ask you for concreteness, conciseness and brevity in the answer; with a yes or a no if it can be – with a yes or a no if it can be. Is the Spanish going to be a language in Catalan schools after the agreement you have reached with socialists and commons?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.35.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.36.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, what we are doing today with this country agreement, with this consensus, is confirming the model of Catalan school, and what we are doing today, above all – very important too – is legally protecting our directions, our teachers and all the linguistic projects of the educational centers before a feeling that it is a pedagogical freak and that it does not have any kind of pedagogical sense. That's what we do today. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.37.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.38.0	Finally, counselor, I had asked for concrete action, and it is clear that you are unable to be brave and to say what you are doing with this agreement with the Socialist Party. Frankly, of you, many citizens of Catalonia and our group do not expect anything. But we did expect something more from the socialists. We hoped that today would not be the day when the Socialist Party was found to be lost to the cause of constitutionalism, lost to the cause of the defence of bilingualism, lost to the cause of respect for the linguistic rights of the citizens of Catalonia. It is indeed a pity for many citizens of Catalonia, among whom I tell myself, to see that the Socialist Party again makes the fat broth to you and, by using the political terminology in use and not in the spirit of scorning anyone, the Socialist Party again acts as a useful fool of the nationalist parties, exactly as the common ones. They are doing what you dictate to them, and they also do so without taking into account the fact that you do not explain to the citizens of Catalonia what it means that Spanish is a curriculum language. Any euphemism that you invent will not convince the citizens of Catalonia that we want an educational system for our children similar to that which you and I both want for our children, a system that has as its vehicle languages Catalan, Spanish and English; but at least the two languages that are majority in Catalonia, the two languages proper to the citizens of Catalonia. You still despise justice. You continue to despise the citizens of Catalonia and their linguistic preferences. You still despise Spanish because you are truly Spanish-speaking parties. What you do is exclude the Castilian because you are prey to your galloping hispanophobia. Well, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, commons, Junts per Catalunya, and so on, what you approve today, the legal cunning that you intend to approve these two days in the Parliament of Catalonia does not at all comply with the judgment that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has given. And you will necessarily, Mr Cambray, and you very personally, have to answer to justice. You'll see. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.39.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.40.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Martín Blanco, what reflects today's country agreement is that all the parties that he signs guarantee what the Catalan school model has already responded to, which is that all the students have oral skills and written to finish the mandatory stage of ESO quarter. And, besides, we do it by applying pedagogy, as it can't be in any other way in a school. What we do is apply learning with pedagogical criteria. What we do is apply the learnings taking into account the socio-linguistic reality of educational centres and above all their surroundings. What we do is apply the linguistic projects also taking into account today's teaching, which cannot be the same as that of fifteen and twenty years ago. We apply very different learning methods, apply meaningful and competitive learning. You, lords of Ciutadans... until you arrived, the language has not been seen as a problem. And that's because language to the country's schools has never been a problem. And that's because the problem is you. Leave the schools in pau – leave the schools in pau. They are seeing again in this Parliament political consensus for a model of Catalan school that guarantees equity, equal opportunities and social cohesion. We have social consensus and above all we also have pedagogical consensus, because the learning of languages does not go with percentages. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.41.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the shoc plan in order to put the waiting lists of child development and early care centres in place. [[Ask the Government about the shoc plan to put the waiting lists of child development and early care centres in place]] [[310-00283/13]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.42.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, when we speak of early attention we are referring to all those interventions that, from the perspective of prevention, detection, diagnosis and therapeutic intervention, have been directed at improving integration we could say school and social integration and also the personal autonomy of those infants, usually from zero to six years, who can suffer or suffer from some disruption of development, communication, language, etc. This, this first attention, which, as I said, can go from zero to six years – therefore, to the first childhood – is due to the end of the centres of child development and early care, the CDIAPs, which have taken over from the territory. In Catalonia, concretely, we have one hundred, and we have ninety-seven, who give this universal and free attention precisely from the closeness to the pupil, from the closeness to the infant, to the families and to the educational centres. And he's a fan, precisely, because they're part of this network of public social services in Catalonia. The CDIAPs offer this attention from the multi-disciplinary perspective. There is so much attention to speech therapists, neuropsychiatry, psychopedagogy, physiotherapy, among others, always giving individualized attention to the student and the family. And they are not only dedicated to child-centred interventions, as could be precisely this early detection, this individualized follow-up, this accurate diagnostic and also determination of what the infant needs at school, also support families and guidance on how to accompany the growth of this student, but also make a whole series of direct actions we can tell the system and the environment, as could be precisely coordinated the educational, health and social services of the CDIAP influence area, support the schools in this process of first aid, coordination and research on these preventive and early diagnostic topics, etc., from this proximate point of view. The year 2021 was attended to by nearly 45,000 children and children in these ages from zero to six years in the CDIAPs of Catalonia, and this represented an increase of a six_per_cent in respect to the data of infants aged 2020. Therefore, we want to ask you what actions the Council has planned to improve these waiting lists and maintain... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.43.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.44.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In fact, you explained it very well. He has made a super-extensive explanation of why these CDIAPs, these attention services, which, as you said, are universal and free in our country, to serve children and children from scratch to six years who suffer from some kind of disruption – psychomotor disorders, communication disorders, language disorders. It is a service very valued for the community, for the educational community, also for the Department of Health, because precisely in these early ages of children's and children's lives it is very important this detection to be able to just help them in the future. As we say, it's a free service and it's a universal service. Unfortunately, waiting lists make this not universal. At the time, there were two thousand children waiting for this appeal in Catalonia. As you said, it's an appeal, so the generality is investing a lot of money in it. In concrete terms, until now we have invested EUR 41_million, but we have seen an opportunity, as it is such a necessary service, to extend this endowment. In concrete terms, we will push and increase in a setze_per_cent the economic quantity contributed to this resource. A seven_per_cent that will be used to attend to two things. One, these two thousand children who are on the waiting list. And another very important one: increasing the frequency to be able to attend to these children with more hours of attention. In order to be able to do all this, what we will do will be to invest almost seven million euros, 6.9 million euros, which must be used to help us contract 200,000 more hours, 63,000 of which will be in order to end this waiting list and 137,000 that will be just to increase this frequency. You said, the CDIAPs are a service that is all over the country – concretely, we have a set-north – that they needed this effort to continue to do this task, that we will continue to do it, more than anything else in our hands, as it cannot be, in any other way, the Teaching Department and the Health Department, who work together to care for all these children. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.45.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the first year of the legislature of the Department of the Vice-Presidentship and of Digital Policies and Territories. [[Ask the Government about the first year of the legislature of the Department of the Vice-Presidentship and Digital and Territorial Policies]] [[310-00285/13]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mònica Sales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again, president, councillors, deputies. Vice President Puigneró, the first year of this legislature has been marked by the many folds, all the country challenges that have determined our day-to-day. One of the main axes was the exit of the pandemic of covid-19, which transformed our lives, a exit characterized by economic recovery and social protection. Because if one thing we are all clear about is that the best social policy we can do for the citizen of Catalonia is a decent job because everyone can live well. Tanmateix, this isn't a easy pocket, it's not a simple pocket. Catalonia is a diverse country, heterogeneous, with social realities and above all very diverse territorial; therefore, it is essential that public policies take into account this reality, that of the territory, all, and that of its people, all. A country where infrastructure becomes a key tool for the vertebration of all ages, of all peoples and of all cities from a mobility based on a good public transport network that advances towards the green transition of zero emissions, sustainable, efficient and safe. In short, to connect the whole territory from south to north and east to west. Infrastructures that are as physical as digital. which allow us to fight against depopulation, promote territorial rebalancing and move forward with teletreball from the digital connection of our entire country. That is to say, infrastructure generating opportunities in a country of progress connected by land, by sea, by air and by space. At the same time, this progress and connection must advance in parallel to the preservation of the territory. There is no example of the pilot programme of the United Nations that will last for my lands, for the lands of the Jews, to face the transformations and global reptes, present and future, that must help us to plan the urbanization of tomorrow taking into account the vulnerable environments. That is why, Vice-President, we would like to know what is the balance you make of the first year of the legislature to the head of the Vice-President and of Digital Policies and Government Territories, and what are the most important projects I would highlight. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.47.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.48.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. In the first place, allow 'but also the congratulations for the good work that has done to the head of the Parliamentary Group of Junts, with this agreement of country consensus on the topic of català. Miri, to make a balance of a year of government in the head of the vice-president's office, we have to take into account the context in which we live. You have commented: obviously, there are global elements like the pandemic, like the crisis in Ukraine, that obviously affect us in our day-to-day, but obviously we also have to have other elements that affect us more closely, how it can be the fact that we are part, in this case – still, eh? – therefore, of this defective democracy in which we live, and that, therefore, we could also make it a summary only of, for example, this last month. This past month we have experienced how the Ombudsman has endorsed the espionage of the CNI. We also saw Villarejo's new audios, so they demonstrate and confirm Operation Catalunya. We have also seen how, for example, Valtònyc won his case in Brussels, but he cannot return, and, in change, we have seen how the corrupt king is walking, returning to the Spanish State. These are all elements that obviously condition us. And this permanent threat we can only put up with if we are able, first of all, to preserve the fifty-two per cent that came out of the ballot box in this legislature; I think it is an element in which we need to put a lot of attention. And, therefore, we must bring forward, in the first place, the resolution of the political conflict which forms part, in fact, of the first point of the plan of government, and we must do so in order to become, obviously, an internationally recognized political subject. This must be the first priority in which we work together. It's obvious that from the vice president we work on other projects. We want to connect the territory to balance it, digitize the country to make it more competitive, decarbonize the mobility to fight against climate change. Here, obviously, you could do a bunch of projects that we're putting in front of, from optical fiber, projects, for example, like the metro stations we've set up on the way, also the Tarragona tram train, the Three Xemeneies project, the digital and audiovisual hub, the Aina project, the opening of the Tresponts tunnel to connect, so the Alt Urgell... In short, projects that want to make this country an eco-digital country, a country that looks to the future, a country that is worth living there. And there are other reptes that I don't want to give up. I'll refer to the two. There are two projects in which we still have three years. One of them... we need to be able to get an intercontinental airport for our country. And, second of all, we have to make the wheels of our... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the vice president and the vice president continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.49.0	Time's up, Vice President. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to respond orally in full to the agreement on health transport. [[Ask the Government about the health transport agreement]] [[310-00284/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Maite Selva, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. Honourable Councillor Sanitary Transport is an essential service for Catalonia's citizens, and it is especially important and critical in rural and remote areas. The Government of Catalonia is responsible for the management of the Medical Emergencies System, which, for certain services, provides it directly through its own resources, while in other cases it is provided through public competitions through other health transport undertakings. The equipping of the working conditions of the staff of these enterprises with those of the staff of the SEM is a wide demand of the workers of the sanitary transport. The equipping of the conditions with those of the SEM staff, as I said, was a long claim. On October 9, 2020, Resolution 940/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia called on the Government to develop a plan to progressively equate the working conditions of health transport personnel with those of the staff of the Medical Emergencies System. This legislature, the Department of Health has created the Table for the Equiparazione del Transport Sanitari, formed by representatives of the same department, the SEM, the unions, the employer of ambulance companies, and parliamentary groups. With all this, it allows a plural and complete representation of the agents involved and it is a voluntary show of the Department of Health to advance in the resolution of the situation. Last November was the table. This has met on three occasions, created different working groups and allowed for important adventures. And already in a very special way, and at the meeting on May 18th, it validated the agreement between the social agents for the new convenient collection of the sector, which allows to move forward to the equipment. This agreement was signed between all parties on May 13, 2022. For all this, and bearing in mind the commitment and the involvement of the Department of Health in all this process, we would like to ask what value does the department of this agreement and of the work of the table make. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.51.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.52.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Selva, this is a clear commitment from the Health Department, and also the commitment to respond to Parliament's resolution of the year 2020. I am grateful here for the work that all the agents have done – I am talking about the unions, the employer, the SEM, all the parliamentary groups that have participated in it – and therefore also thank you for the rigour in the work, for the generosity and for reaching this agreement. From this point of view, too, parallel to this agreement, in which we dedicate 10_million of our presupposition in salutation, and at the same time we also incorporate the tariffs that are pending from year 2020, of application from year 2020 and approve them from year 2022, parallel, as I said, we are also working to make a full analysis of what is the retributive model in the health transport sector, but also inserted among all the professional categories in the whole health sector. I repeat my thanks. I think this is a step forward. And, above all, this idea that with consensus – with the consent of social workers, employers, the department and above all of parliamentary groups – we can address this and many other issues that we have today on the table in the health sector, and that is, from this element of joint work, generosity and rigour, how we move forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.53.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the actions due to completion to complete the sentence on the twenty-i-five_per_cent of castle to education. [[Ask the Government about the actions due to completion to complete the sentences on the twenty-five percent castle in education]] [[310-00292/13]] The question is put by Mrs Lorena Roldán, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.54.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr Cambray, what measures have your department taken, what instructions have you given to schools to comply with the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent in Spanish?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.55.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.56.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Roldán, we, from the Department of Education, the measures we have carried out are to accompany with the maximum political, social and pedagogical consensus to confirm the model of Catalan school and above all to protect legally, before an aberrant feeling, our directions, our masters and our linguistic projects. And that's why, from the Department of Education, what we're doing is we're taking all responsibility, all legality, all responsibility before the lawfulness of all language projects. Therefore, we will assume all this responsibility by approving and validating the linguistic projects of the educational centres. We'll do it at the educational centers. We will accompany you, advising you in the drafting of these linguistic projects, in order to ensure the learning of the català and the castella at the end of the quarter of ESO with full oral and written skills. We will follow up on this application of language projects. The language projects written for the educational centres must have a real reflex in the classroom. Our teachers, our faculty, can't sort the language with what the class does. And we will also, above all, make this annual evaluation of these linguistic projects. We'll do it with internal competition tests and external competition tests. We will test competition at a quarter of primary, according to ESO and also, in census form, at a sixth and a quarter of ESO. And we would incorporate competence into this assessment, as in the new, we would incorporate oral competence into the languages.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.57.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.58.0	Yeah. Mr. Cambray, if you would answer to what I ask you, it would be all round. You're talking about aberrant sentences. Let's talk about aberrant things, Mr. Counselor. Look, it's abhorrent for the Generalitat to say openly that it doesn't intend to comply with a court ruling. It is abhorrent that the Government of Sánchez will consent to this. And it is aberrant that both systematically violate the rights of the students, and that they do so above all by using the votes of the Catalans who were deceived in the election campaign. I am that the mutation of Mr. Illa, who has passed from the liberator who came to save us from the faucets of nationalism, to Illa the consentor and the accomplice, is enrollment. Probably because there hasn't been such a mutation. You and Sanchez were always the same. We must have arrests, if not other, to be the ruling party of Spain and to support and sign a law that does not pretend or want Spanish to be a language to be used in school. And I ask you, counselor, how are you going to ask the center directors not to abide by this sentence? Because I'm telling you, that pantomime you've been riding with the Socialist Party isn't going to do you any good. You say the courts don't know what's going on in the classroom. Well, I tell you that you less, because you have the educational community very tired, you've been riding seven strikes already. They've got another one today. They've moved your discomfort. They have also told you, they have asked you to leave, and since you do not know or want to know, they have now also sent you a letter signed by three hundred directors. It's just that they need to send the mariachis to the door of the department, to see if so, out of shame bullfighter, you listen to them at a holy time. Look, are you going to force them to disobey the courts now too? I ask you again, Mr Cambray: will you give instructions to comply with the judgment yes or no? And think of the answer very well, it's not going to happen to him like his ex-partners, who came here very brave, but then before the judge the trembling came in. And I'm telling you, there won't always be a Pedro Sanchez on the other side to kneel down in front of his hits.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.59.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.60.0	Thank you, President. Let's go to the real world. What worries us about the government is that the last few years there has been a flood of Catalan use at the educational centres. And, therefore, the first thing we make this government is to recognize a situation that is not the desired one, that is not the one we want and, therefore, to deploy a national language pact, to deploy a catalan impulse, to increase this catalan to the educational centers. Listen, what we want is for all the students to consider their mother tongue. More than two-hundred languages, in Catalonia. What we want is for all the students to learn as much as possible. And we, above all, want all the students to see in català, to think of català, to have a relational use of català, because català is the language that unites us, the language that gives us social cohesion, equal opportunities and equity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.61.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of the Centre d'Atenção y Gestion de Trucades d'Urgència 112 de Catalunya. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Centre d'Atenção y Gestion de Trucades d'Urgència 112 Catalunya]] [[310-00286/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Castillo, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.62.0	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. In November of last year I asked him a question about the workers of 112, specifically about the measures planned to improve their employment situation and how their department intended to guarantee the service, because we had a problem with the concession caused by the company's failure. He replied to me at that time that the department had focused and focused on three points: u, assuredly and better of the rights of workers and workers with penalizing measures, to say the least, for incomplicating enterprises; two, maintaining the service with the inclusion of better in all areas of the departure of clauses, agreed, naturally, with the social part, and three, beginning of the study of the internalization of the service. And, indeed, that was done. By September, after seven_months of vacancy, the proceedings of the new tender competition had begun, and it was then the same way that the CAT112 address was put in contact with the workers' representatives to listen to their complaints. Some complaints that, as you have already explained to us and as the Director of 112, Mrs. Irene Fornós, during her appearance at the Commission d'Interior, have been taken into account, these complaints, and in the new competition a series of clauses and betters that were an increase of the new wage; better jobs because the future contract that had to come into force this month of April could apply them. There have been some hard moments and some misunderstanding, but we have always tried to explain the reality of the situation in which we found ourselves and to note in the sense that we thought it was more favorable to both the public service and the workers of this. Once the whole bidding process is over, we know that Serveo is the company that won the contest; we know that the last month of March was the end of the wave after reaching an agreement between the contractor of the new contest and the workers, an agreement that has already entered into force this April. We'd like to know what the situation of CAT112 workers is right now. Has the new contract allowed teleoperators and teleoperators who hold the Emergence Phone in Catalonia to now have a better job situation? Have you included the contractor of the new contract in the petitions of the workers? And, Counselor, also in relation to the compromise to which it has come to study a possible future internalization of the service, if you can tell us briefly, please, in which state it is found. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.63.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.64.0	President, Congressman, actually, hasn't been an easy year for 112. First, the one that passed with the company, therefore, that failed; then, with the competition, and then, with the vacancy that there was for the job situation of the workers. Actually, the situation has changed significantly. As of April 1, the new competition has already started, and the work situation of the workers has already incorporated since this month of April, and, therefore, from now on, all the better wages that have been agreed with the workers and that have entailed, therefore, the finalization of the vacancy and the agreement that has arrived. This, indeed, has meant an increase of approximately the new percent of the average to all workers; we are talking about an increase of two-cents, three-cents, four-cents– depending on the categories and conditions of the workers – at each monthly payroll, and the best, therefore, in more festivities, in addition to displacement and also the addition of emergencies. There is another element – because there is a decided bet for 112, because 112 is an essential service because it is the gateway of the servers, of the security devices and the emergencies of the country – and it is the incorporation, in time, in the proper weeks, months, of forty-nine people to work because it is possible to provide more and better services than 112. I insist, because it's the gateway to the country's security and emergency services, and they're very necessary. And now you're in summer and there's gonna be fires. There's been climate change, yeah, and we've been at this risk all year. And that's why I'm taking advantage of it today to shout at the citizen and the citizen because, when they see a column of fire or some possibility that there's an incident, they're truking to 112. Every day there are nine thousand tricks, and more than ninety-five per cent are held in less than two seconds. It's a useful service. And, therefore, I make this cry to the city and the city because the user, because the user serves the better of security and emergencies. And, indeed, he is working decisively in the study of internalisation. He spoke to the unions because they also incorporated themselves into the study and made their contributions. And in this sense, we are also working together with the Administration to collect all the necessary data to assess what it means, what it implies and what it needs to do with this internalization. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the attraction of investments for the manufacture of components of electric vehicle drums. [[Ask the Government about the attraction of investments for the manufacture of components of electric vehicle batteries]] [[310-00287/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Irene Aragonès, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.66.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, a little more than a week ago we knew the great news about the South Korean company's reversal of Iljin materials drums components: 600_million euros to build in Catalonia, in Mont-roig del Camp, its first factory in Europe generating five hundred new direct jobs, tape that will mark one before and one after, not only for the municipality of Mont-roig del Camp but for the whole Camp of Tarragona. Iljin is one of the only companies in the world dedicated to the manufacture of foil, a strategic component in the value chain of electric drums. Batteries are a key element in the compliment of the objectives set out in the European Green Pact, as they are essential for advancing towards decarbonisation. Iljin's investment is strategic for Catalonia and Europe. A transformative, green and sustainable project with quality jobs; a project that connects with the green and social revolutions that President Aragones promised us a year ago. With this reversal, Catalonia contributes to the European goal of becoming the second manufacturing center in batteries, the year 2025, after the Xina. We are aware that there have been many months to materialize this historical reversal; intense work and multitude of meetings and trips with the utmost discretion and rigour, with the direct involvement of President Pere Aragonès, led by you yourself with the highest professionalism, ingenious work of the Action team and the impulse of the Mont-roig Assembly of the Camp. For the territory it is a great opportunity. And I, like mont-rogenca, know very well, since currently tourism and the sector you serve practically suppose the norma_per_cent of the local economy, which implies seasonalization and low quality occupation. The Iljin plant will be an incentive to fix talent to the territory, diversify the economy and, therefore, strategic investment for reindustrialisation. That is why, counselor, we want to ask you what values this investment means in the context of the Catalan economy and the potential of Action to attract the investments needed to build a greener, more sustainable and fairer economy. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.67.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.68.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, you said that you have been months of intense work – silent, but intense – to get to this goal, to this news. Indeed, since August 2021 until now, which we have been able to make the announcement already defined, there has been a very important pocket on the part of many institutions, and I want to take advantage of it to give thanks to all the institutions involved. Obviously, you talked about the Mont-Roig Assembly of the Camp, certainly; but, especially, you let the work done for the team of the Department of Enterprise and Work, particularly of Action and its delegated councillor, and above all of the Office of Action in Seoul, Korea, eh? Many times we hear here talking about bars and superfluous spending, etc., and we don't put enough value on how, this whole Action network, among other things, has not only achieved this reversal, it has helped, it has helped make it effective, but it has only broken the record of foreign reversal capture in 2021. Therefore, a thank you to all those institutions and units that have participated in an agreement that has certainly not been easy, but which is very important, huh? We are talking about 600_million euros of inversion, five hundred job places created. And, therefore, of the greenfield reversal of the most important new implantation in Catalonia in the last twenty years. That's for the most part important, but certainly now what we need to know is all that strategic potential you've been talking about that brings this reversal. Strategic potential, how do you feel? From the outset, in the realm of batteries, obviously, an element each time more present to our lives. Not just in the area of the car; in fact, this factory, this plant, will be intended for the area of the car, but not just the goddess, huh? because in this case Iljin, which is one of the only two companies in the world that have this technology, also makes components for other electronic products. And not only that, but another very important element, that is that it also has technology necessary to deploy innovation in the field of semiconductors, another strategic element from this perspective of European strategic autonomy that you commented on. Therefore, we are well positioned from this point of view and now we need to know how to take advantage of these opportunities. What does that mean? So, from the outset, we must be able to respond to all those expectations that the company has created – also to aggravate Iljin's commitment and confidence with Catalonia – but above all to go further and continue with the country's reindustrialisation process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.69.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the economic impact of the sporting events. [[Ask the Government about the economic impact of sporting events]] [[310-00293/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, last March you, together with President Aragonès and Mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, and Mayor Jaume Collboni, reproduced Rita Barbera's infamous photo with Paco Camps to announce the 2024 American Cup in Barcelona. With this image, they announced a return of 1,000_million euros with the gathering of this event of election to the city. On the basis of what reports do they ensure these benefits?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.71.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.72.0	Well, Congresswoman, with the reports we have and we'll have. Obviously, the American cup is not the first time that it's done, it carries different editions, some of the more profitable, others that have taken advantage of to do practical harm. Obviously, this will not happen in any way here and we will take advantage of all the potential that the American cup has, not only from a tangible point of view, not only from a point of view of direct economic impact..., which has already begun to donate, because it is an event that is not confined only in the weeks of competition, but already from the minute or has an impact on the city and the country. And, above all, we will also be able to take advantage of the enormous global projection that gives us a global event like this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.73.0	To answer the question, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.74.0	Well, counselor, according to the information that you give yourself and your department donate, these 1,000_million are the result of the appreciation of the American cup promoters; that is, interested in selling the great successes of this event. While they talk about millionaire benefits here, what we know is that Valencia is still paying the debt, that Auckland 2021 there were 156_million_dollars of lost money. They expected more than $600 million in benefits and ended with $156 million in losses. But you don't have much to do with this, you set up a clause, which, while still agreeing with the administrations, would assume the preferred cancellation and priority of the endorsements given to the private financiers by means of the first 25_million inputs generated by the event; that is, protecting the private investor. Privatization of benefits; socialization of losses. And if it were agreed that the public investment would be €70_million, that the government's share of public administrations would be about €15_million in expenditure or investment, why did the government authorize a spending of more than €36_million on May 10? Fifteen to thirty-six is more than double. Who's the model you want to design, counselor? It's not the speculative economy anymore, it's the unreal economy. That someone spends hundreds of millions on a ship and pays unorbited wages to the crew to win there someone else can't consider sport, it's a business. It's not a majority sport or an activity that can please the general public. Winter Olympic Games, formula 1, American Cup: it's the return to a past model, to an expired model. Again a model of its benefits, our misery; as I say, of privatization of benefits and socialization of the lost. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.75.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.76.0	Member, I think we can agree with the statement that events are not good or bad for themselves; depending on the value they bring. And the events you have commented bring value to the country. We believe that, and it's evidence that they have a positive impact on the territory. You have taken advantage of a re-record of other American cup editions with certain cases that have absolutely nothing to do with what this edition will be with. He talked about an issue that was affected by the covid. As many other events worldwide, she was affected by this pandemic circumstance. And he also spoke of a case in which he took advantage of any proposal, any excuse – in this case it was the American cup, but there could have been any other – to make Pharaohic works and generate corruption. And I've already told him that's not the case with Barcelona. On the contrary. There will be no pharaonic investments here. Just in contrast to other options, here what we will do is to take advantage of the trampoline that supposes this event not only to generate economic impact in the present, but also in the future, linked to processes of innovation around nautical, linked to processes of poor economy and deployment of opportunities and the potential that this economic sector has in our country. We'll take advantage of it to look at the sea again in another way. We will take advantage of this event that places us at the global level so that you have a positive arrival for the country's conjunction and for your own years. I insist, events are not good or bad by definition, depending on the balance being made. And in these cases it's obvious that balance is very good for the country, and that's why we're there and we're not just there, but we're leading it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.77.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the fight against male violence. [[Ask the Government about the fight against male violence]] [[310-00289/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Gemma Lienas, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.78.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. First the Government of the Generality has a department, a flaming department, that ages, among other things, for equality and non-discrimination of women. But, one year after it started working, it wasn't only possible to reduce the amount of male violence, but it saw these increase. Some data. Donations assassinated in 2020, nou; 2021, nou, and in the first quarter – first quarter, only – of 2022 in portem sis. Sexual assaults reported: 2019, more than 1,400 victims; 2020, more than 1,500; 2021, more than 2,000. It is also a very, very worrying question of the increase in male violence among the youngest of the years. We would like to know, Counselor, how you explain this increase in male violence and how you intend to reverse this trend. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.79.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.80.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I understand that your question is really sincere, because you have a firm compromise and your party too. But I did not understand the question, because while there is patriarchy there will be male violence. And it was not expected that in a year of the Department of Equality and Feminisms we would have an impact on a violence that is structural. [[Some applause.]] It's 14 feminicides in 2021 and 8 that we're wearing this year, because we're making a feminicide count that includes everything that backs the Catalan law of the right to eradicate male-based rape. We are aware– everyone, not just from the government – of what we come from: from a very complicated year; it is to say, from some antecedents that because of the situation of the pandemic..., it has made many women, a time is out of bounds, we return to "normality – between comets", but it is that the women continue to paint the precariousness with which the pandemic has left them or start to take over the kingdoms and plant divorce or separation situations. And these are special risk moments. This is happening not only in Catalonia, it's happening at the joint of the Spanish State and other places. You know, too, that the reporting data is a complex indicator, because when they go down, it doesn't mean that there are fewer cases, it means that they may not be able to report, as we saw with the pandemic, and when they can also say that we are more empowered, that institutions are more and better accompanied and that there is more social awareness. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.81.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.82.0	Thank you, President. Look, maybe, counselor, your problem has been the assumption. Because his department had a budget of 79,8_million by 2021, but he only executed fifty-six_per_cent. Do you know? , is the lowest execution of all departments of the Generality. Of this forty-four_per_cent not executed, there are 29_million going to the next exercise because they are finalists, but there are 9–9_million– that are lost, that they could have taken advantage of to ensure the safety of the women. For example, the woman murdered in Granada del Penedès, or the two Pakistani women of Terrassa murdered in Pakistan. For what it does to the activities developed by the Government, I would like to see what are the criteria that are used to raise subsidies on behalf of the state fund against male violence. Because, she advises, we ask ourselves what is the reason for which the ICERS entity received a subsidy of EUR 280,000, feeling like it is an entity that is literally dedicated to transforming the relationship of society with psychoactive plants. We have to see what connection there is between the peyote, the ayahuasca or the ballets all·lucinògens with the fight against male violence. Counselor, it is not clear to us what is his line against violence against women or if he makes the necessary efforts. We'll keep an eye on your actions and talk about it from here to six months. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.83.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.84.0	It is not certain that the degree of execution of the assumption was this, it is much higher at the end of the year. That said, we had a triple mission to pull out the department, because at the same time we had a law to deploy that has different dimensions: from the march protocol to guide all actions, we are working in the different sectoral protocols; establishing indicators to identify revictimization and eradicate institutional violence; working in the creation of new tools for different forms and environments collected in the law of male rape; we are reviewing phone 900 so that it is not just information, but also attention; we have established coordination circuits as there has not been so far; we have implemented repair measures that do not exist. We're doing this all the time because we don't want to lose a minute. What's going on, that you deploy a law and be able to review the entire attention network so that it has more professional, more hours, more adjusted service, needs a little more... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.85.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on industrial policy. [[Ask the Government about industrial policy]] [[310-00290/13]] The question is posed by Mr Óscar Ordeig, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.86.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. The last few days our country has rejected two very good news. The first, as has been said here, the excellent news of the new plant of boat components in Mont-roig del Camp in Tarragona – exceptional. A very important investment to gain competitiveness in the manufacture of electric vehicles connected to our home and to Europe. Counselor, we congratulate you and the department, as well as all the people who have made it possible: the Mont-Roig Assembly of the Camp or the Ministry of Industry, to give some examples. This is the way forward, and here's where we'll help her with everything you need. Another very important news: the microxips design labs in Barcelona; through an agreement between Intel and the state government, with 400_million per year. A lot of work to do ahead of us, because that doesn't stop the industrial destruction of the past twenty years. National industrial pact to halt industrial destruction and re-industrialize our economy. The economic recovery will be industrial or not. It is necessary to leave the industry out of harm and to bet on a technological, innovative, sustainable industry and, in this changing world, to take advantage of the many opportunities we have; an industry that resists economic crises, pandemics or the lack of sub-administration, as we have seen, innovative, exporter and with stable and better paid occupation. Counsellor, what is the government's understanding of the necessary changes in industrial policy and the national industrial pact?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.87.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.88.0	Thank you again, President. Indeed, two very important news items, above all because they place us in two very strategic areas at European level. Before we spoke to Congresswoman Aragones, but it also serves for this question. The field of batteries is an evidence as important will be in the next few years. In fact, the European Union has been faced with the commission multiplying the manufacture of batteries by 2030. Therefore, here there is a very clear appeal and, at the same time, there is also a very clear appeal – and so does Europe – in relation to the development of European xip, the construction of semiconductors on our continent. As much inversion as the other, as much project as the other, obviously, go on this line. The news we knew yesterday respects the BSC's relationship with Intel, with the Intel company, and this microxips design lab project in Barcelona, of course, goes in line with what the Government of the Generality has proposed. In fact, in the twenty-seven projects of Next Generation Catalonia, one very clear is working in the line of design and prototyping of European xip; also in the possibility of manufacture, obviously. And here I think we need to be clever not only from the point of view of the executive and, therefore, of the government, but from the conjunction of the political forces of Parliament to position Catalonia in a competitive way in this sense. Because we have the bases. Opportunities are there, bases are there, now we have to keep working. The government has set it, I said, as a priority; it has worked the last few months and will continue on this line. That said, the National Pact for Industry is a fundamental element, certainly, but it has to be a document that has alternatives tractors, tractor proposals, concrete files with certain execution, with indicators to follow it up. We're working, we're finishing it. The parliamentary groups are perfectly aware of this, because we have made contact with each other. We've been working on it. He'll see the light in the next few weeks. And, therefore, we will have a basic document to be able to work not only this legislature, but to position ourselves for the years that come, because, obviously, we want to reach 2030 with a twenty-i-five percent pes in the gross value added of the industry, in the pes of the country's GDP. Therefore, we have an appeal to make, we have the bases, we have the clear objectives. The digital, green, modern reindustrialisation is absolutely necessary and the national pact for industry, which will count on a great deal of consensus, has to set the master lines to move on this path we share and that, obviously, deputy, therefore, from this point of view, we are... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.89.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Some applause.]] To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.90.0	Counselor, with all due respect, if we don't make a paradigm shift and look, it won't serve the national pact for industry. We've made proposals, I'm sure you know them. And, therefore, it is important that the combination of governments – not their government, but governments, society and economic sectors – participate and believe. We will not advance if we do not make a change in the policy of innovation, technological transfer. We will not industrialize our economy if we do not make a change in vocational training. We also need more and greater industrial alone, urban regulation that facilitates the implementation of industries at our home and does not invade. We're at the top in renewables and that's less competitive energetically. Taxation, many times, is not competitive or contradictory with other territories and can also be analysed. And not to be industrial if we redistribute the money to the assumption of industrial policy. We'll give our hands to try to help make this a reality and make a substantial change. Counselor, very well in the management of the Mont-roig plant; not so well and many dues to be done in industrial policy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.91.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the aid provided for in the field of culture. [[Ask the Government about the planned aid in the field of culture]] [[310-00291/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Rocio Garcia, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.92.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. He will advise, on more than one occasion he has said that culture is a right and that it can be preserved; we fully agree. It is also economic activity and also generates occupation. But we haven't seen yet that it's a priority for this government. We'd like you to pass the words to the fetus. We're at the end of May and the cultural sectors haven't refused any public aid. There was no prioritization of terms and no advance of calls because the grants arrived before the year was over. There's no such thing as a shambles either. You are a person of very good words and well valued for everyone; also for us. But he has to hear that he has to move forward, because with what they've done so far, there's not enough. Today, we have many examples that show the lack of concrete actions that help culture. There has been no reversal of the crisis in the sector following the pandemic, nor of the post-pandemic crisis. As you know, we have proposed extraordinary measures for the cultural sector, because it recovers opportunities and can look to the future. We believe that you have to increase your help in popular and traditional culture, in Catalan cinema, in theatre halls, in the performing arts, in theatre, in music, in dance and in the circus. So we asked him, and yet his department hasn't given us an answer. Let's hope it's soon. We are still far from the two_per_cent destined for Culture, and we have only reached the '1,28_per_cent of the Generality's premise, with an increment that is not up nor 100_million euros. And, well, looking at the subsidy bases of your department, we see that the cultural sectors will have to continue advancing resources, anticipating them. It is clear, therefore, that this does not help creation or talent. And, well, this Day of Sant Jordi there were many hopes, as you know, posades to reverse the crisis to recover sales and presence of books, editorials and authors and authors. The climatology made evil dreams and also spreads and publications that turned out to be evil. You, Counselor, reacted very well, quickly, and the money came together with the Chamber of the Book of Catalonia and with the Gremi de Llibreters to assess damages and seek solutions. One_me didn't get the solutions or the help. Nor do the affected know what the criteria will be to opt for the support of the Department of Culture. Will you advise, when you will be able to know the book sector and also the small bookstores the extraordinary aids for the damages that caused the rain and wind on April 23rd? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.93.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.94.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Rocio Garcia, yes, indeed, the assumption of this year, in which it is an increment of 28,3_per_cent, that up to these 389_millions– it was not the 400 that we all wanted, but in it are 389 –..., insufficient, but we go this way of the two_per_cent. And what we've increased, basically, is the help lines. His question allows me to put in value the important management task that the Department of Culture and all its workers do and, therefore, to aggravate this work, sometimes so invisible, but absolutely essential. This year we have planned to summon one hundred and fifty lines of help. There's a lot of them. Of these hundred and fifty, at these times we have already summoned eighty, and of the eighty we have solved fifteen. These more than eighty-eight have brought us more than 85 million calls already at these times in dance, and 15 million that are already resolved. So, why is that happening to us? Because at the beginning of the year what is happening again to all departments and above all to all that they manage helps is to look and review the justifications of previous years. And then there's the calls for the rest of the help. And the months of June, July is when we settle the maximum of our calls. So let's hope that in a month or two we may already be just calling up the hundred and fifty calls, that there are actually many, and going resolute so that the sectors, all sectors, get these help. With regard to what I am asking of Sant Jordi, it is obvious that, as I said, we spoke to it at once, the same Saturday of the day of Sant Jordi, the next day..., the next two days with the chamber. And we've been following through this month. At this point, we already have a blurry seen for our legal advice, also agreed with the sectors and talked to some of the affected. And basically what we're gonna do will be a gift that's going to come out for a hundred and a thousand euros. The beneficiaries will be editorials and bookshops. The object of this line will be free, the evil books, the carps, the parades. And what we will cover will be up to a 70% of the import of these expenses. This is what we have in mind to approve the week you go to the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, in the governing body, the board of directors, and, therefore, will be convened in about fifteen days. So, on April 23rd – today is May 25th – we have a line already drawn and... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.95.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. He asked the President of the General Council to give an oral reply in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the tangible balance for the benefit of Catalans in the way of dialogue with the Spanish Government]] [[317-00161/13]] The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.96.0	Thank you, President. What is the tangible balance for the benefit of the quality of life of the Catalans at the so-called 'dialogue table' which is open with the Government of Spain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.98.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. This government bets to resolve the political conflict. My question is, do you bet on it? To settle it to flatten it? Because your initiations, for example in relation to pardons, indicate that clearly, when it begins to work for the resolution of the political conflict, you appear to make it worse and that this is impossible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.99.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.100.0	Thank you, President. I thank you that, instead of answering me, you ask me, as if I were the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya. But, finally, you'll know the role you want to play. I have simply asked you about the tangible result for the benefit of the quality of life of the Catalans at the so-called 'dialogue table'. And, as was foreseeable, you have answered with evasiveness, because, obviously, it is not a table of dialogue; it is a table of political survival, and nothing productive could come out of it. And in that I thank you for your frankness. But it does not cease to be your star project in politics, and you yourself implicitly acknowledge that it serves no purpose at all. So let's go to tangible things, to eating things. Did you know that foreign investment has collapsed in Catalonia in €2,000_million since the start of the separatist process? Is that Madrid's fault too? - Finished on you. Did you know that Catalonia is the leading autonomous community in school barracks, with 23,400 students studying in these precarious conditions? Is that also the fault of the People's Party? Did you know that in the perfidious and cruel Madrid the average health waiting list is seventy-three days, while in the social paradise that you govern turns out that the average is 156? Did you know that Andalusia has surpassed Catalonia in the creation of new businesses? Yes, that very Andalusia to which you have historically referred on many occasions in a discriminating, condescending way or even with far worse expressions. By the hand of a few days of the CUP, other days of the commons, your balance, Mr Aragonès, in the year that has been in government, is Catalonia of the no: no to the Hard Rock, no to tourism, no to the Winter Games, no to the Nissan, no to the Volkswagen, no to the enlargement of the Prat. It's a non-constant to everything. We defend Catalonia of yes: yes to the Olympics, yes to tourism, yes to educational freedom, yes to private property, yes to citizen security, yes to coexistence; in short, yes to Catalonia of all. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.102.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member has forgotten a comparison, when you explained the data in Madrid: the tourist tax; less in Catalonia than in Madrid. And if you want to talk about foreign investment, let's talk about it; not about the corporate operations that make up the foreign direct investment, the purchases of a company by shareholders outside the Spanish State, let's talk about concrete investments, industrial investment. And the example we have with Iljin's battery component plant, which will generate hundreds of jobs in Camp Mount Roig. And another thing: I'd ask you to respect me, which I think sometimes I miss. It is to say, that you accuse me of less Andalusia when I am clean of andalusians, as I have claimed with all pride and have always professed respect for this land because we also feel it our own... I think you have made a major mistake today and I ask you to rectify it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.103.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the necessary change of direction of the government by decree it respects the compliance of the judicial resolutions, especially for the implementation of the twenty-five percent of the classes in castle at the educational centers]] [[317-00162/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.104.0	Mr Aragonès, you know that this child who has brought us to Parliament today does not comply with what is specified by the judgment of the High Court of Justice. I wonder whether you, now that you are going to touch them, once you have passed this law, issue a decree by the government, whether you are going to correct the course of collision with the judiciary or not, because the judges cannot change the course, because they are given the law and the sentences are immobile. It is politics, which must change its course when it moves away from what laws are. That is why I ask you: will you change the course, Mr Aragonès?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.106.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Deputy, separation of powers. You read them to the parliaments, you don't read them to the courts. Courts apply laws passed by parliaments. What does this Parliament have to do? Pass the laws, which is what we will do during this plenary. What are we gonna do about it? To defend the linguistic model of the Catalan school, which is a model that works for social cohesion, that is a model that must guarantee learning, oral and written use of the català, the castella, the aranès to the Aran, and that must also promote the learning of foreign languages – perhaps the most relevant of all the English. And, therefore, that's what we're going to be working on. And so, that's why he came up with a broad consensus. And that's what this Parliament does. Parliaments make laws, they don't make judgments. And this is not an attack on the judiciary; it is simply a finding of the division of powers, which forms part of all democracies, which you seem to ignore. Therefore, if you believe that in this Parliament you have not come to make laws, then listen to me, against the judicial race and are not present in the elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.107.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.108.0	As you know very well, Mr Aragonès, as president of an executive body of the State, of the Administration, and also as a member of a legislative body, judges and courts interpret laws according to the Constitution. And that's what the Constitutional Court and the High Court of Justice do. And you... the real separation of powers is that you abide by these interpretations of the courts. Look, there's a fable of Aesop talking about the birth of mountains, and that's when mountains with big tremors seem to open up and a mouse comes out. For that is that covenant for the language which you present today with all solemnity and rumor. It's a big lie. It consists of two articles with obviousness. Article 1: comes to say that it is footballer who plays football. And article 2: says the same thing as the law on language policy. It's a game of trilers. They have moved the cubes, the white ball has come out« Catalan vehicle, the black ball like the night« Spanish curriculum. Today the atmosphere of the days of latrociny is breathed in Parliament. I lived the blow to democracy and today I live the blow to coexistence and the rule of law. We are talking about a truncated Spanish subject in the education system and you demand zero. It's all there is. I am not ashamed to defend the law from a minority of Members in this Parliament and to defend rights. I am ashamed and concerned that nationalism poisons our society, breaks it, despises the rule of law and has the support of the Socialist Party and Podemos. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.110.0	Thank you, Madam President. Actually, we can't disagree more with you and me. We urge..., an eighty_per_cent of the deputies of this chamber today, in the first hour, that there is a law in language at the schools– eighty_per_cent. That's consensual. We work for consensus. You're working to break the consensus. You threaten the principals of the schools, and you publicly threaten them with criminal responsibilities. We work to protect public workers and because the schools are still educated and do it with the highest quality and with all dignity and with all resources, which still need more. What divides Catalonia's schools today is not the language, it is the economic and social segregation that is suffered in this society. And that's why we have to put all the tools in it. You, focusing it on a question of language, what they do is cover up what are the other lines that can break our society. And, therefore, we continue to compromise with the social cohesion of this country, with equal opportunities. This also happens to strengthen the role of the Catalan language and to ensure the learning of all languages. That's what we want. You don't want it, and that's why we can't disagree any more. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.111.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the valuation of his management in relation to the changes announced after the constitution of the Government]] [[317-00168/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'en Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.112.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, again, everyone and everyone. President, a year ago you arrived at the Palau de la Generalitat announcing great transformations for our country - and I have to tell you that after 365 days, unfortunately, these transformations are not there. They're not in education, with a counselor who set himself up with the education community and who should have been here long ago. They're not in the product model change. In fact, you're talking about the national pact for industry, but you've still been unable to do it by 2030; you've stayed in 2025, when our country needs to plan. We don't have the law for energy transition yet. Nor have these transformations reached the health model; in fact, the private mutuals have won land. Nor are they in habitation, where you are not fulfilling your commitments. Not to mention the legislative paralysis: a single law in a year, which has followed the assumption with us. Or the response to the crisis in Ukraine, which is late and insufficient. Of what they have had time, yes, it has been to set up the table two failed macroprojects of the past, as is the expansion of the Prat airport and as are the Olympic winter games, which, certainly, we do not know yet, did not answer the councillor when, for the time being, the government has spent, already, when they have not yet begun. In short, President, you were announcing the government's transformations and we are seeing the government's resignation. And that's why we'd like to know, so, how much you appreciate it and how much you'd like to be reminded of your presidency. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.114.0	Thank you very much. Miri, honourable Member, let's bring a twenty-i-five_per_cent of the legislature and run about thirty-four_per_cent of the government plan. So let's go to a good rhythm. Speeches can endure everything, but let's go to the party – let's go to the party. You were talking about industrial policy. We have the biggest reversal of the last 20 years in Catalonia: in Mont-roig del Camp, the plant of components of batteries. There's been a very important effort because it's been there. You mentioned the educational environment. The first drop in P3 rates to be produced in decades will be in September. The incentive to make zero-three free, with I2 free of charge, starts with this government, as I committed myself to the investiture. We've got more teachers than ever. And obviously, as far as work is concerned, we have all the proposals that we are in a position to agree with the unions of teachers when, therefore, it is possible to get together, which, for our part, is our intention to do so. And let's go to the party, too. You're talking about macro-projects, you mentioned two. He talked about the expansion of the Prat airport – we are complaining about the management of Catalonia – and I want to remember that this project that put it on the table was Aena, which is according to the Spanish government, which you are part of – I want to remember that. According to a project that you consider very painful, that it is the Olympic Winter Games, that I sincerely believe that they are an opportunity, that has the support of the Spanish Government, of which you form part; the Assembly of Barcelona, of which you form part. Therefore, I think that if these projects are so painful – in some we may have discrepancies; in others, in the case of the games, therefore, we push them with all the energy because we want full guarantees of sustainability – so you should do that those governments where they do form part in their position; at the moment, they are the main enthusiasts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.115.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.116.0	Thank you, President. President, how much have you spent on money from all Catalans and Catalans in the Olympic Games? We don't know yet. Industrial investment is only the result of the Government of the Generality. And gratuity in I2 is very elastic, which I would say my way, because this is still going to see how it is done and where it is done. And I would say to them: start completing the agreements. In a few weeks we will have the second meeting of the covenant of assumptions and see if you are people of word or not. The first meeting wasn't going too well. Wait for this second time to do it. And I would also say: we are where we have always been, which is assessing decree by decree, law by law, to see if you are serving the country. And the feeling we have is that you are not doing well and that you are more anchored in the projects of the past than in the present and in which the future of our country needs. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.118.0	Thank you, President. The I2 is in an additional provision of the law of assumptions that we have agreed you and me. Therefore, there is and clearly specifies how much money is given per place, for how many courses – and therefore, it does a multi-year planning – and is also ratified by an agreement with the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities, because it is the joints that provide this service from the public point of view. And I think we need to assess. We like to evaluate ourselves, and I am convinced that the assessment will be positive and we can continue to generate great agreement in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.119.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the lack of correspondence between his management and the policies to which he committed after the constitution of the Government]] [[317-00166/13]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier Pellicer, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.120.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. Aragones, now a year ago you were invested as president because you compromised to get the country out of the paralysis in which it was found, to open a new cycle based on a left turn and moving towards self-determination, and to do so during this legislature. One year ago – and I quote it textually – you proclaimed: "To open a new stage in Catalonia that would involve a profound transformation of the country; to captivate a government at the expense of the people; not to have come to manage but to transform, and to do so with four unaffordable revolutions: social, feminist, green and democratic. One year later, do you think that the policies your government has put forward correspond to the commitments it has made to Catalans and Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.122.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgut MP, roundly yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.123.0	To answer the question, Mr Xavier Pellicer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.124.0	Well, today, it's exactly a year ago just that it produced the denunciation of the Llavors block in Barcelona, unfortunately, a clear example of which are the priorities of its government. And it is that, Mr. Aragonès, you arrived at the presidency defending a program, and the debt – the debt – began to deploy an absolutely different program: expansion of the Prat airport, the Hard Rock casino, following public money to infrastructure deficits such as the Circuit de Catalunya, the Olympic Games in Pirineu, the American Cup in Barcelona, or tougher against the and the teachers. And it's that these are the main policies that his government has deployed. And all this program is nothing more than the political agenda, than the economic agenda, of the Promotion of Work and the Circle of Economy: to promote economic lobbying and to deploy what has been called the agenda of the reunion. And this whole program is pulling it out of the hands of the PSC and the commons. We think that at the February of 2021 we had the opportunity to open a new cycle, to move forward firmly, to allow paralysis to stand still, to guarantee social rights. Unfortunately, there has been a great deal of progress since then and its lack of willingness and capacity to do so has become clear. That's why they'll find us at the side of the country's people, to throw everything away that you don't know, can't, or want to throw away. Your government has given the bait to the people of this country. And before this evidence, let them be honest: explain what motivated this change of course, which is the real program they want to follow. And we insist, we don't do it because you say the UPC, but because it's an act of honesty in front of the country. You do this act of honesty in front of your constituents, in front of the country's conjunction, and explain what support you have to pull forward... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.125.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Greetings.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.126.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, the Llavors bloc produced the denunciation by court order twelve hours after I took possession of it and when there was still no time to appoint the government. Therefore, to attribute it to decisions of the government I think it is not correct and you know it – you know it. In the matter of the Interior, for example, they know the changes that have occurred; the changes that have occurred, for example, before the characters of the Government of Catalonia in relation to people who, in the course of their activism, are immersed in a judicial process. And they know perfectly well how we managed to centralize from the Central Judicial Office what is the possible defense, if that is the case, of public workers who may end up affected, therefore, in mobilizations. And, therefore, they know that there have been changes in the sense of right guarantee, and how much it cost us, and that we have had opposition from this chamber to do so. But we don't do it because we do it with the UPC; we do it because we believe it. You have forgotten its historical inventory of steps, for example, to ensure equality of opportunity, such as the gratuity of I2, which is very important; the reduction of ratios to schools, which is fundamental; the increase of thirty-four per cent of the vocational training offer, which is key; what is the bet for a green and digital reindustrialisation, such as the boating component plant. He referred, of course, to aspects that were not part of the government agreement, and that here, therefore, we maintain points of discrepancy. The fact that it was part of the government agreement is a call for a consultation because it is the citizenry of the Pyrenees – not the Government decides on the Pyrenees, but the citizenry of the Pyrenees – which it decides, therefore, around the project of the Olympic Winter Games of 2030. And that's out of the question. Therefore, our commitment to these transformations continues, but we need tools. And it continues despite that we were not able to count on its support under the assumptions of 2022; assumptions that multiply the chapter of investments by two– we go from 2,000 to 4,000_million euros–, and that are the highest assumptions of the later decade. I believe that, in the end, the objectives need tools. I want to share your goals with you. I think we share your wishes, but we need to hear all that we need to serve the right ones and, therefore, we also count on you, I want to count on you, to keep these shared ones... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.127.0	Time's up, President. [[Greetings.]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the need for radically different policies from those applied during the first year of government failed]] [[317-00167/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.128.0	Mr Aragonès, do you intend to do something different after a fateful year of your government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.129.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.130.0	We will continue with what I have committed in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.131.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.132.0	Mr Aragonès, I have to acknowledge to you the merit that every week the Catalans are surprised with some newness; newness more failed, mistaken or even contrary to the proposals of previous weeks. You were invested boasting four flags and a plan of eight fateful commitments, to which, as you know, we have not remained silent, because we were able to see how all your solutions were far worse than the problems we face. You always contribute..., aggravating the problems and making the structural ones, tearing Catalonia apart and destroying the future of generations and generations. In your flight forward, Mr Aragonès, you are willing to take whoever is ahead: separatists, socialists, conservatives, men and women, older and young... Everyone I have mentioned is suffering the consequences of their policies. That families cannot educate their children in freedom? For you, with the help of the Socialist Party, bet to skip the law and keep the imposition and indoctrination in the classrooms, once again ending the fundamental role as a social elevator that our education has. That political spending is crazy while thousands of Catalans are at risk of social exclusion? For you increase the spending on those six false embassies outside the Generality, which, let me tell you, Mr Aragonès, that more than one counseling that looks like a placement agency of the members of your parties and of the separatist mafia as a whole. That the new climate religion puts hundreds of thousands of workers at risk and the purchasing power of Catalan working families? For you create new taxes, increase restrictions and do everything possible to close the few remaining factories on our land. That insecurity has taken on the streets and turned Catalonia into a real battlefield where it is hard not to meet someone who has not suffered assault, rape or robbery? For you allocate more aid to the MENA and more promotion to the so-called effect of illegal emigration. Look, Mr. Aragonès, a broken clock gives twice an hour a day, but you unfortunately neither, and that is the balance of the year of your government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.133.0	Mr Garriga, once again I repeat that there can be no claims in this Parliament that they violate the law of equal treatment and systematic connection, constant, as you do, between immigration and delinquency. We will not allow it in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] It has the word, to answer, the president of the Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.134.0	Thank you, President. I can't be more satisfied with being absolutely dissatisfied and being judged from the extreme right in such a negative way this first year of government. Because we, in front of those who speak of 'climate religion, defend a green transformation; of those who say that it is unprotective of workers, we work to protect them in the most fundamental aspect, that it is salvation, and that also means the fight against climate change, and prepare ourselves for the transformation of the product model and, therefore, to make this digital, but also green, reindustrialisation. And this means capturing investments for the new industrial cycle that is taking place in Europe. The proposal of the extreme right leaves us out of the United Nations: they are the ones who criminalize the 2030 agenda. They leave us out of Europe: they are the ones who are against all the tendencies of the European Green Deal, of the policies of social cohesion that mark Europe. And they want to leave us out of one of the values that our country has been instrumental in, which is social cohesion. We have felt for a year that the extreme right has been constantly stigmatizing citizens of this country, only because of their origin or administrative situation. So they'll always keep us in the front, the government, absolutely rejecting these assimilations and defending a country for everyone. And that's defense with quality public servants. This is defense with investments that generate quality work places. It is a defense from education; not with the adoption that they say is produced in the classrooms, but leaving the teachers of this country who are tired of coming the extreme right to tell them with whose language they must treat the students. And, therefore, before the speeches of the extreme right, that in order to achieve power they are willing to break social cohesion – and this has gone to the far end of the century and we have very painful experiences in our home – they will find us before the democratic convictions, of defending social cohesion, of defending democracy, of defending the shared values of this country. They shut down this Parliament in 1939, they want to put it back on hold now because they have long claimed a new 155. They'll keep us going, serving the city of Catalonia, during this year of government and of all those who stay ahead. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.135.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in full on the latest developments in political affairs. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the need for unity and a joint strategy to advance towards independence one year after the government pact]] [[317-00163/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.136.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, members of the government, deputies and deputies... President, a year ago from the government pact; a government pact between Junts and Esquerra Republicana to complete a mandate from the ballot box: that of the greatest independence victor of history. But in these twelve months we have not advanced as we would like; we have to correct it and, above all, we have to recognize it. The Spanish State has no intention of resolving the political conflict with Catalonia. The path of the dialog does not work or will work, because the State will not change, because the other band does not want to negotiate. They prevent the return of exiles, while a corrupt emerit king returns to the State with total impunity. They spy massively on us without Pedro Sánchez's government giving explanations or assuming responsibilities. They have a justice to use, which now wants to review the pardons of political prisoners, and which orders illegal operations of all kinds, as Mr. Villarejo explained in detail. Every day they give us more reason to leave the Spanish State and build a country free, democratic, progress and well-being. In this direction, the Government is working and doing well, as we have seen during the last year with the effective management of the last days of the pandemic, with the most social assumptions of history, with measures to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine, despite the fact that the Government did not have all the resources and tools of a state. That's why we want independence. President, before the results of the dialogue table, of the Spanish Government's failure to act in the case of "Catalangate", of Spanish justice and of its actions, and are faithful to the governance pact and to the fifty-two-per-cent mandate, of the Junts we ask that it is the strategic direction chosen by independence, to act with unity of action in Madrid and, above all, to agree an alternative to be able to advance, as you yourself went forward in your speech from Sant Esteve. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.138.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, let's begin by thanking Juntes for Catalonia's vote a year ago, a long-working vote, which allowed the formation of a government, of which the value of this first year of all and each of the departments is satisfactory. Let's get on the right line. In the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the legislature we have, therefore, already completed about thirty-four_per_per_cent of the measures of the government plan. There has been a huge effort from all the departments, in a very difficult context, provoked, therefore, for the pandemic, for the development of a new war in European territories with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. And, therefore, this forces us to be more effective, to work much more cohesively and to work, therefore, to generate opportunities for the citizenry. We share the aspiration of Catalonia's independence, we share the will to culminate in Catalonia's independence. The best way to do this, and we have said it all this time, is through a procedure granted. The first point – the first point – of the governance plan is the resolution of the political conflict with the State. And we will persevere in that. The only possible solution to the political conflict must be the one that contemplates the failure of repression and, at the same time, to give the citizen of Catalonia the capacity to decide – therefore, a reference to decide his future policy – therefore, to decide whether they want to constitute an independent state or not. And we will persevere in that. And this is not incompatible with the fact that there may be great agreements in the area of independence to finance the strategy to achieve our goal. And so, obviously, as we have been long this year, to share everything you need to advance in these shared actions, always having the conditions in which we move. And, for that, we need to generate great consensus. And, for that, we must continue to question the State. And that's why we never have to give the flag of the dial to a government of the state that, as we see, pours in the little ones, and that could use it to criminalize independence. Today, more than ever, independence must look to Europe. We must look from the point of view of European judicial resolutions, but also from our speeches with the country. Return to a positive project, an effective project, a project that allows you to earn freedom shares. That's my goal, I'm convinced we share it in good parts, and we'll work in that sense. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.139.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in full on the latest developments in political affairs. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the appreciation of the first year of government and the recent agreement on the use of catalá to educational centres]] [[317-00164/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.140.0	Thank you, President. « President, we come from very far away. And we come, of course, from the U of October. And we come, too, from all the struggles for the social and democratic rights that have forged this society. For this, surely, we defend with cough a way of doing that today has taken centrality as never before. And we demand to keep ourselves on noble principles, just and necessary. One year ago he gave this, President, during his investment debate; an endorsement which again placed a republic in the presidency of the Generality relegating to years of history. A year ago, he began to walk a government that has turned public policies into more social and political rights. And he did it on four axes of transformation: feminist, social, green and democratic. With measures such as the gratuity of Infantile 2 and the reduction of ration the proper course; the inlet of the pilot plan for basic income; the modification of the decree of renewables to accelerate the energy transition, and the first stone for the future public energy. With a campaign against the poor menstrual, or with 917_million euros at the largest level of active employment policies. And he stood in the way, in addition, and thanks to civil society, the social agreement for amnesty and self-determination. They are concrete measures, and there are many more, some have reminded you, but in more caldran, many more. More legislative and political action, more exploring all the margins – all – to facilitate and improve people's lives. Much more, President, to the Government, to the Parliament and, when it comes down, to the street. And that also means, of course, the protection of the catalá; obviously, all the time and always, without matter, no doubts, no renunciations or lessons, receding and facilitating the country's consensus, because in the country, of course, the party, and with the language, does not play. They didn't play our opinions and avies, and some paid for it with their lives. Our parents and mothers, who made català the lever for equal opportunities, did not play there. And there can be no play for us, for cohesion and social justice, to avoid linguistic segregation and also for culture. For this reason today we celebrate that we have made this consensus possible around the Catalan language and model of school, acting as a frontal, blurring the differences to protect the essential: the català is of all, and the central volem, at school and on the street. For this, an immense thanks to all, to all that you have made possible. Thank you very much, indeed. In this sense, President, how do you appreciate the first year of your government and the agreement of the catalá last hours? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.141.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.142.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, we appreciate it positively, because the path is moving forward; the dialog is bringing to a close speaking; the consensuses announced are materialize making them, and making them possible. In the long run of the past year, we have reached broad consensus in this Parliament, in which, in one way or another, more than eighty per cent of the chamber has participated, from its own investiture, the agreement of assumptions, the renewal of the statutory bodies, which carried many years blocked, or the agreement of this very week in the matter of Catalan language. Therefore, we will continue to work for these consensuses. When he made a year of elections, on February 14th, at a conference I put the focus, precisely, on these consensuses. This plethora of this week is not an example. And, therefore, my thanks to all the Members and Members of the different parliamentary groups who have made this consensus possible around the language. We have an interview with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that the Government does not share. In fact, we have filed repositioning appeals, and therefore, from the point of view of the process, we will carry out these actions as far as possible. We want to continue to defend the model of school in Catalan, guaranteeing the learning of the different languages that exist in the country, contributing to social cohesion, because it is a model that has the academic, pedagogical, political, social consensus, and, therefore, it is to be preserved. As I said, I am grateful for the efforts of the parliamentary groups that have made possible this political consensus that makes it possible to strengthen the Catalan school model. And this we have to move to many other areas, and ask those political formations that, sharing these aspirations, so today, have not yet been part of this consensus in the field of language, for example. We must do this in the social, environmental, feminist and democratic spheres. You mentioned a series of measures that occurred this past year, which is the first year, therefore, of presidency. We will continue on this path, because the social, green, feminist and democratic transformation that we push needs the effort of everyone; of the government the first. And, therefore, we will continue to work for these country consensuses. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.143.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the need to extend the scope of the political settlement between the Catalan political forces]] [[317-00165/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.144.0	Madam President... Mr Aragonès, this week has been a year since your government, a quarter of which should last the term. She seems to be lying the way she spends her time. It's a good time to swing. These days, different means of communication, you yourself yesterday, my group today will make an inquiry, I myself have referred to it in the last few days... But today I don't want to balance, I want to look forward to it. I don't want to look back, I want to look forward. I don't want to talk about the past, I want to talk about the future. From a future in a complex, changing world, much less kind of what some thought. And I want to talk about the future to say that it seems to me that we can do better, that we need to do better, and that Catalonia deserves us to do better. You and I, Mr. Aragones, think differently; in some things, very different. We have different views, as I have with other leaders of this Parliament, but in some things we can hear. We have an example today, I think it's remarkable. Certainly, a formula that never failed me in politics is to always put before the general interest and the common good that does not the particular interest and the interest of the part. [[Greetings.]] That is why, Mr Aragonès, thinking of the future and what remains of the legislature, lasts what lasts, I repeat from the discrepancy my disposition to the agreement and to hear 'none of some things. I'd like to know if you're up for it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.145.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.146.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Illa, government and opposition must have points of understanding, and that's what we agree on. You ask us to look forward and ask not to look this first year. In any case, you're not required reference. We have a degree of execution of the notable governance plan in many aspects. We have done this percentage assessment, but it allows us to move forward. There's a place where we go, and I think we need to be able to work a lot more, which is the process of dialogue and negotiation with the State. He's not doing well – he's not doing well. I have the feeling that the government is sometimes watering... from the state, watering the few, and it has to be possible to pull this negotiation process forward. I'm asking for the weirdness. The citizenry asks that there may be a frank, sincere, equal negotiation in order to arrive at a resolution of the political conflict with the Government of the State. Of all the elements of the government plan, this is what I myself recognize is that there is an important margin of improvement, and I think you can have a prominent paper on that margin of improvement. So, so, if I'm wondering in what areas we can improve, this is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.147.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.148.0	I think we can get better and we need to get better in a lot more areas; but, anyway, I think, that everyone knows, you too, that you have my commitment to help with the dialogue between the Government of Spain. But I ask you today, explicitly, formally, if you want solemnly, to open, to open all, a process of dialogue in Catalonia between Catalans. I wonder what prevents us from listening; I wonder what prevents us from contrasting points of view; I wonder what prevents us from working together; I wonder what prevents us from strengthening what unites us, that there are things that unite us; I wonder what prevents us from building agreements; and I wonder what makes some political, because it is political, to build agreements. Look, all we're here, all the hundred and thirty-five deputies, we have things to say, we have things to bring, and we can do it with serene, with respect and with constructive will, and certainly with a language much nicer than some of the expressions we've heard here today. So much good this first year is a point of inflection in this direction, and so much good you lead it; it will keep me at your side if it does. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.149.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.150.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Illa, review the main agreements from now on a year ago, from the investiture: assumptions, renewal of statutory bodies, the agreement in language to schools. I think it's a clear display of the dialyg's willingness to Catalonia endins, also from within the country, about aspects that are fundamental and that we share. Therefore, this dialog has opened and this dialog is working. We need the conditions to make it possible. What today limits the potential of this dialog, in my understanding, for example, of deciding in the field of reindustrialisation, is what we cannot decide from here. For example, how to configure the losses of the Next Generation. A national pact has been claimed for industry, but the Next Generation decides it from the state government; we want to keep it much more capable of incidence. And the dialect and decisions in Catalonia are limited by decisions of the Government of the State. We are at a time when the Government of the State has not given sufficient explanations for the case of espionage to the main representatives of the Catalan institutions. I think there's a lot of room for improvement here. The Catalonian dialogue is taking place; where it has not produced enough results – and I look forward to my efforts, but we have not yet achieved the objectives – it is in the dialogue with the Government of the State. And, therefore, you, as you can, help in this area. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.151.0	After the control session, let's move on to the next item on the order of the day: the debate on the totality of the partnership law project. [[Project of the Law of Promotion of Associationism (debate of totality)]] [[200-00006/13]] In accordance with Article 116.2 of the Government, this legislative initiative, on behalf of the Government, will be presented by the Social Rights Councillor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.152.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members, today we present the draft Law on the Promotion of Associationism, a necessary law that will fill a legal void and that wants to give legal certainty, simplify procedures and promote a cabdal sector. Associationism is a wealth of our country, a distinct part of our identity that we must protect and, above all, we must empower. It is not possible to hear the history of our country and the current configuration of the Catalan society without the contribution of associationism. Catalonia has a great diversity of entities that have vertebrate and vertebrate our country, from the association of the Lleure de l'Esport to political, cultural, venous and, above all, social entities. Its dynamism and public service vocation have played an important role in many of the struggles of this century. Entities and associations have been essential in the defence of language and culture and also in the absolutation of the main adventures, especially social ones, achieved in this later century. This power and vitality of Catalan society remains fully in force. More than 1 million Catalans participate or have affiliation in associations. According to data from the Associationism Report and the Catalonia Volunteer of the year 2018, Catalonia has between twenty-three thousand and twenty-five thousand active entities and more than a million volunteers. Associationism in Catalonia has, therefore, been built on the real palar of compromised and empowered civil society. It is the soul of our country, able to build and solidify a solid citizen network, critical and mature. The individual will to associate and form part of a collectivity to transform society represents a step forward in contemporary society. Moreover, these entities and associations have a fundamental role in the transmission of values in our society, values that at these times, especially in the hard years of the pandemic, have taken special note: respect, solidarity, compromise with the community, sustainability, cooperation and, also, critical experience. The phenomenon of associationism allows the creation of structures that strengthen and empower civil society, equipping it with instruments to have and channel a unique and capable voice of replication, incidence and criticism of the performance of public powers, with the desire to improve, grow as a society, all sharing public space with public administrations and economic agents. Therefore, it is an essential and priority public policy for the advanced democratic countries to work to grow, consolidate, strengthen organised civil society that wants to transform reality, always looking at the common good. As I said, associationism also represents a characteristic model of our country. Catalonia has built itself thanks to a strong and organized civil society, which today continues to claim its role. And in this sense, from the government we know that what we want is to build a country of progress and welfare for everyone and everyone's hand. Because the great transformations never progress without the complicity and help of civil society. That's why we want and need to make it out of the hand of this association that has always been compromised with the country. We have the duty to encourage and care for him. When the associated texture and public administrations are folded, we have an enormous ability to overcome the difficulties and successfully deal with the rep·lectus. But, as you know, in the later years and in an accelerated manner, the participation of citizens through organised civil society has had to adapt to our contexts with the desire to continue to respond to the nine social demands and thus continue to demonstrate its strength and transformative capacity. This is why it is more urgent than ever that the associationism has a Catalan legal framework, since all its importance still has no regulation with law rank than rules and deploys the essential aspects of its promotion. This fact causes public policies that are driven by different Catalan public administrations often with regulations or regulations that do not prevent development. Unfortunately, there was no general view of associationism and, today, the law that we present must be used to put it through a proper legal framework to overcome these situations, while respecting the specific rules applicable to associations and foundations. Thus, for the first time, this law regulates, from the specificity but also from the global and holistic view, the encouragement measures to be promoted by the Catalan public administrations. In this way, a stable regulatory framework is established for citizens and entities, but also for public administrations as responsible for implementing actions. In general terms, therefore, this law reflects the Government's commitment to promote the implementation of public policies that stimulate, protect and promote the activities of general interest of associations, of the rest of private entities without work and of groups or informal groups, with the aim of building a society that is compromised, solid and capable of transformation, and, ultimately, to ensure the mechanisms conducive to a more just and more critical society. Before I enter the law, let me make a brief statement about this construction process, because we think it's important. This is a law that lacks consent, the application of this model that we mentioned before: the joint work between civil society and administrations. The construction of this legal text has been a very large process of participation: different departments of the Generality; the local world; weaves diverse associations, both territorially and sectorally; a process associated with the Third Catalan Congress of Associationism and Volunteering that took place in 2016; discusses with entities working in the field of sport, popular culture, environment, external cooperation, social action, youth and leure, of the year 2017; discusses in the case of the Council of Associationism and Volunteering, the year 2017, or the first finding of partnership and post-pandemic volunteering of the year 2020. These joint work include the lack of social recognition of the task of entities and voluntary persons, the decrease in the number of persons involved in the association and the lack of generational networking, the lack of public and private resources, the lack of specialized training and advice of persons linked to entities, or the increase in the relational complexity between entities and public administrations and related administrative procedures, which is also widely claimed in this Parliament. For what it does to its content, the law complements the drive of associationism that has already begun with the Law 25/2015, of July 30, of volunteering and the promotion of associationism. As you know, the law of volunteering established a regulatory framework focused on defining the model of voluntary action in Catalonia and on protecting and supporting people who were involved and volunteering. Now, in change, the new law that we present today seeks to stimulate that partnershipism is also fostered by public powers. In this way, Catalonia will have a combination of laws that are complementary: a regulatory framework that defines the model, that protects and recognizes physical persons involved in the activity of the association, and a _de_second, that urges public administrations to give support to the entities concerned. To guarantee these aspects, Catalonia had the necessary instruments to consolidate and strengthen the association and its transformative action. Among the main objectives of the law, the will to activate public policies to promote this reality, to coordinate the activities of public administrations in the field of promoting associationism, to facilitate the decisive contribution of entities in decision making, to deploy day-to-day support and follow-up programmes of entities, to promote and raise awareness of the value of associationism before citizenship, or to simplify – and this is an important measure – the administrative procedures to be completed by associations in order to obtain aid and subsidies. The law has an objective: to promote a project of registrar and census interconnection with the aim of simplifying the relationship of entities with the Administration. In this sense, it will work in a technological system that operates with a unique and easy window and simplify the relationship of entities with administrations. To promote, also, the growth of the associated fabric in Catalonia. In short, with the law that we present today we want to value the promotion of partnership, enhance its social and competitive recognition, raising awareness of citizenship about its main values, increasing and diversifying the people who link and stimulating generational replenishments. We want to strengthen the entities, provide them with more finance, more resources and more diverse, more material support and more support. We want to enhance the impact of their programs, forming more and better connected people and activating competitive recognition processes. And we want to simplify the relationships of entities with public administrations to improve inter-administrative coordination, looking for a most effective framework for entities and their programmes of action. In short, today we are laying the groundwork for giving a new impetus to the associative fabric of our country and which continues to be the paler of our civil society, compromised with the country and its people. Ladies and gentlemen, today we present this bill of law. I give thanks to the parliamentary groups to make it possible, to make it possible, because it has not presented itself to the totality. You, the parliamentary groups, have come to the conclusion that this law is a law of consensus, of consensus by all parliamentary forces, as has been the case with civil society. Thank you very much and very good work. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.153.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. We are now having a 15-minute break, because we have completed the presentation time and the Bureau will meet to be able to accept them. So, let's resume the session at a quarter of a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.154.0	So let's resume the session. And then, as no totality papers have been presented, the parliamentary groups will intervene to set their position, with a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group. In the first place, the word, on behalf of the Socialist Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.155.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, you have finished your speech talking about consent; therefore, we will start with consent. Therefore, we say that we agree in the diagnosis that you have made, a little, of the need for this law, even though we have some different opinion regarding the substance of the law, but we will start on the positive side. We understand, as you have said, that Catalonia is a country that counts on a web of entities, associations, that they are referents, referents at the cultural, venenal, sporting level, of light and, in general, of all Catalan society. You made the point of this report of the year 2018 that the ancient Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, which quantified in about 25,000 associations that were active at that time, in any case, and in a volume of people between 500,000 and 750,000 that belonged to a single entity, but the global one was 1,500,000 associates. Therefore, just for this aspect, it would be important to have or develop legislation that regulates this situation. But if this is important enough, I think much more important is the day-to-day they have for many municipalities these entities, these associations. Surely we could talk about many municipalities in Catalonia, but it will allow me to speak, to set an example – which will serve me to develop the law... – the municipality where I live, where I am living and where I have had the honor of being mayor: the Bishop of Empordà. In our municipality, of just over eleven thousand inhabitants, the import of associations is very important. It is basic for the development of cultural, sports and cultural activities in the city. Up until the major party of the municipality is co-organized or basically organized by the entities, remaining the role of the Basic Coordinating and Finance Assembly and of doing some activity where the entities do not arrive. But it's not just the major party: it's Reis's ride, the Circ to Carrer's Fira – every July, a week-end, with more than 35,000 people in the city and which, moreover, was the National Conca Culture Award – concerts, music festivals, sports activities..., that is, a long etcetera that employs acts throughout the year the city, and complements, when they do not directly assume, the weight of the programming of activities. I'd say, not to be mistaken, that the Bisbal is a city of entities. And this is the strength, and therefore the motivation and circumstances that, as Parliament, we must take into account at the time of legislation: to facilitate the laudable and valuable task that these entities develop. Allow me to counter my speech to the point of optimism that you have respected the law. We believe that with this text we do not respond to petitions and the needs of these and so many other entities that provide their services across the territory of Catalonia. While celebrating that today we are putting in the way of this law promoting associationism, which complements, as you said, Law 25/2015 and also the Catalan Civil Code, it is certain that when we hear it it is late and incomplete. It's late, because, as you said, the first Law 25/2015 – and, moreover, it recognizes it in the preamble – not even defined what the concept of association was. But, in addition, you also referred to the Third Catalan Congress of Associationism and Volunteering, but it was six years ago that there was this convention. It was of great importance, because it ended with conclusions about the best things the Administration had to do to facilitate this task that entities do. I understand that they have to have other files and objects, because so far they haven't posed, but the worst part is that with this law they don't even give compliments to petitions made by entities. And he also said he did it incompletely. Probably, her government companion, Councilwoman Ciuro, must have read a book that is called The Form of Laws. Explains which is the formal content that a law must have. And I have to say that the editors of this law have perfectly completed it, but, on the background, when we hear it, leaves much to be desired. Parliament's own web page defines the law as a type of specialised text, a legal rule which the Parliament lays down obligations, authorizations or prohibitions to make certain actions, or cancels prohibitions, modifications or obligations which it has previously established. If we read the law, the article, it will see that it is a fully declared article: it shows the good intentions that the Administration wants to have towards the entities, but not concrete measure or action, we do not move from statements without legal effect. For example..., we could read the whole joint, but..., an example: we take Article 13, measures to support the administrations towards the entities. I say: 'Apart from: advisory and technical assistance; apart from b: actions for administrative simplification of proceedings; apart from c: economic support and public finance. And I could keep reading, but I'm not gonna tire them out by reading this whole article. I didn't sum it up, I read the article textually. They are generalist, enunciative measures – there is no concrete – which, in fact, should not even be included in a law. It is to be assumed that the administrations would already have to raise these questions with the entities. In other words, these measures of agility, simplification of administrative or economic support processes and public finance that I have read, to give an example, must administrations only do so if this law is approved? Wouldn't it be the obligation of the entire administration to execute these and other measures to facilitate these tasks? But, in addition, to approve as is this text originally drafted, it does not generate any type of obligation of the Administration to the entities. What does this law do to entities again? What's right about them? They're so inconcrete that if the government today manifests that it doesn't cut the law because they already apply, we won't be able to oppose it there. For this reason, we understand this need, that it is a necessary law, we would say that it is essential. We have not submitted papers to the totality, but we believe that this should be done. It can define much more what is done in this text. We are convinced that, in the parliamentary process we are starting, the text will be much better defined; otherwise, it would be a lost opportunity for entities, and many are already going. In our view, apart from concrete, there are six aspects, which I will define for a moment, which we believe are better and which can generate, if not modified, doubts with respect to the law itself. The first aspect is that the law focuses its legal effectiveness on associations. It leaves in a_second term another great sector, foundations, which in many aspects share objectives and means, certain, but also have differences, differences that..., either we make a special law or we add it to this one. The second point of reflection is that the law establishes the obligation to develop local action plans to promote associations only in the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants. We understand that this, this topall, should go down. Neither the Catalan law nor the Spanish law of local law establish any competitive differentiation in this matter with respect to these municipalities. And, on the other hand, the vast majority of joint ventures, when they have entities, and, therefore, they make subsidies, they have to make strategic plans of subsidies, because they ask for their own general law of subsidies. Therefore, we believe that it would be feasible to link both obligations regardless of the number of inhabitants in the municipality. A third problem – and perhaps the most important one – that is not addressed is the economic aspect of the entities. Article 16.2 makes a general reference to the fact that the public administrations of Catalonia must encourage the best possible financing mechanisms, but it does not say in what way. A few days ago, in a gathering of entities, these showed that their main problem is the reduction of funding sources, which causes a flood of entrances. They also have cash and cash problems due to a lack of hourly payment. And, therefore, precisely this excess of dependence that they have on public administrations or entities, what they suppose is that they need that, from the government and from the law – and therefore from the Parliament – is a rule of finance for all these entities. The fourth aspect that we see and that the regulations have not just made, in our view, is which entities benefit from these advantages that can be established by law. Paragraph 5.1, therefore, states or requires that its activity is not primarily related to the provision of services to pay changes. We understand that the criteria should be the soul of work, not that you serve a change of pay. If we maintain this wording, we can find that thousands of entities that organize courses, acts where they are taken in, quotas or economic counter-performance in general, can stay out of the law, as can also stay out of the law entities of the third sector that pay their attention to people in concert or subsidy, or special work centres or insertion companies operating in the commercial traffic in conjunction with other companies. A fifth aspect, which I will not detail because my time is running out, is the issue of cohabitation of volunteers and employees in these entities, which the law does not regulate either. And a_six aspect..., you refer to this log and census interconnection, but there are no records of the Catalan administration. It does not regulate matters relating to interconnection with the notary or with other administrations. Therefore, as I said, we believe that it is necessary to deepen the measures to be applied in order to achieve the principles of activity promotion which the law itself envisages. As we said, we believe and agree that this is a necessary law and that the text presented is a good starting point, but that it is a job to improve the text with concrete results, but also with flexibility enough to adapt the policies to the evolution and modernity that, at this time and in a changing context, we need. With this proposal from the law, we believe that the government has given compliments to the maximum that it is easier to do laws than to rule, and we think that we need to do two things. We're at a very difficult time for society, but it's precisely at these times where we're doing the best we can: in day-to-day management, in supporting entities, and when these laws are enacted, they're still needed. Let us not, as Montesquieu was already advancing, that useless laws compromise the necessities. We will work because this is a necessary and useful standard text for entities, for the citizen and for the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.156.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.157.0	Thank you, Madam President. "Associationism" means a social movement which proposes the creation of groups of any kind to deal with matters of Community interest. During the last two decades of the 20th century, there has been a historical shift in associationism, which is reflected both in the creation of associations and in the participation of associations and, unfortunately, in the institutionalization of them, through voluntary laws or associations such as the one we are dealing with today, which mark their sick intention of interventionism. Now, as Nietzsche said, those who were seen dancing were considered crazy by those who could not hear the music. We are able to listen to background music in their laws, of apparent social utility, because we clearly identify their intention to extract a political revenue that has nothing to do with the help of citizens. The promotion of associationism and volunteerism must be used to implement the principle of subsidiarity more effectively. This is to reduce – not to increase – the weight of political and administrative institutions in civil society, to promote the self-management of society without political interference, not to make use of the partycracy in client associations or political chiringuitos, which is repetitive music that we have been listening to for decades. You do not understand associationism from these principles, but, as you have demonstrated for years, from the parasitization of civil society and its pyramidal control through the Administration and political parties. Therefore, we do not understand the associationist universe of the left and separatism without the tremendous amounts of money they receive through political subsidies in the form of favors. Associations, of course, that end up becoming a means of life for thousands of people, who, remunerated by the leaders of the Generalitat of Catalonia, become ideological activists who fill their pockets on this coast. It is also understood that they corrupt the founding purposes of these organizations, and, through them, invade social institutions to put them at the service of their own sectarian projects. Examples? The separatist parties and the left have taken over any cultural or social institution to impose and propagate their ideological project, and have destroyed with everything: schools, ateneos, orphanages, foundations..., all put at the service of their ideology, that of hatred and confrontation. Both try to control the workers through large trade union organizations irrigated with millions of public money in exchange for the fact that, when their government ruins the workers, class unions are an indispensable part of creating smoke curtains and diverting attention from the real problems of the workers, serving the master. In this way, it is explained that, in the face of unconstitutional states of alarm or a crisis that punishes workers and families, the class unions of Catalonia are more concerned to manifest themselves by the twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish in the classrooms than by the loss of the purchasing power of all these families. [[Some applause.]] And it is that with you everything is reduced to the same: your ability to work for and for citizens is reflected in an attempt to control citizens through public institutions, even from which they should be independent and where objectivity should govern, and not partycracy. Because its objective is not to promote the free development of society, but to manipulate the, through its perverse social engineering, in order to achieve a transformation following its infirm parameters. That is why we do not understand his law of associationism, because we do not share objectives. What you want is for these entities to continue to need their satisfaction in order to be able to work. Instead of building a framework in which each group can develop its activity freely, they want them regulated, subsidized and, with this, servile and dependent, and unable to be critical of their unfortunate management. Associations submitted and marked with the iron of his Government, which is nothing more than state interventionism, and, together with it, ideological indoctrination. I told you a few weeks ago that not everything can regulate itself and that not everything is necessary to put a name to it, but you know that without that it is not possible collectivization, which is what you are looking for. Parity, gender ideology, compulsory introduction into schools, their environmental management..., are the pillars of this law. The great globalist elites and the bureaucrats you say hate have sold you a speech, and you have bought it without thinking twice and intend to apply it to the extreme: associationism. Look, non-governmental organizations, yes, but not as you want them or as you encourage them. Faced with its false civil society and its controlled associationism, we believe in a society free from the impositions and dictates of the ruling Generalitat in turn. We believe and support many of these organizations, mostly the fruit of tireless work, which, without making noise, without violence and without sectarianism, are putting themselves at the service of society by bringing great material and spiritual benefits to hundreds of thousands of people, and which have a social weight recognized, especially by the municipalities and the disputations, to which they draw at zero cost from so many troubles. Don't try to get Catalans to dance to the sound of their music, don't try to confuse them; they won't get it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.158.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.159.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Well, to us it seemed a very good proposal, to have this text on the part of the department, what rules or starting to regulate the situation of entities and associations in Catalonia. For a reason, first of all, it's very simple, isn't it? : the history that well explains the preamble of associationism and the work that entities do, the impact that this task has on the whole of Catalan society and how intrinsic it is to our social relations, specifically and especially, as the Socialist Party's companion has also indicated, to the local world and to the municipality. Precisely, entities and associations are key fish in the daily life of Catalonia's citizens and people in general, and, therefore, by not having until now a specific legal framework, it was very difficult to regulate some of their activities. Therefore, we believe that the legislative initiative before this is very positive. Also remembering that the right to association has been a veto right in an important part of the country's history. And, therefore, elements that this text contemplates, both in the preamble and in the development of some articles, of recognition of this task by the institutions, so they are, also, we understand, an exercise of historical reparation towards the entity that is given to its activity. Let us not forget, therefore, that the initiatives of the entities, the initiatives of self-organisation of civil society, which self-organizes, worth redundancy, under this model, this legal form, were born..., and yet it is very effective, this motivation, in response – and the same text also says – to deficiencies in basic services to the population. That is to say, just to give an answer, a self-organised response, before some shortcomings that the Public Administration, therefore, has in the coverage of basic services, in many cases. We also find it interesting that this proposal is articulated around values, not just legal forms or the purpose of these associations. Therefore, elements such as not having a job, a type of democratic management or a will of social transformation are values that are to the point and all required, in this text proposal, that make it possible to embrace, this entity and this concrete organization, in the measures proposed by this law. We have also found that the role of plataforms and informal groups is recognized, because, if it is true that this self-organization is not enough to give response in many cases to basic services that the Administration does not complete, not all organizations or forms..., collectivities that give collective response to these needs are necessary legally established as..., under a NIF or under a concrete legal form. Therefore, the recognition of this organization with this flexibility also finds it, somehow, positive. It is true that it generates some doubt as to how access to finance, for a question of transparency and taxation, in the case of this type of organization and collection that do not have this legal form, it will actually be implemented. But as in the rest, too, of elements that we find doubtful or that need a little more definition, we understand that the regulation will also be key; the regulation that will deploy this law will be key, so to donate, let's say, coverage to this type of concrete questions. It also calls for attention to be given to the territorial perspective, as I said, because entities are responsible for the daily life of many municipalities. And here we do want to make a warning or point out that, according to the wording, in the second final provision, which speaks of the premise and at some other point, when it speaks of the financing between the Generality and the municipalities..., it carries on the assemblies and the municipalities the responsibility to ensure that the entities have this financing, but we cannot forget that many in the locals – the majority – fall, at times, from the Generality of Catalonia to have this financing. And so, it's important, we find, that you don't make a candy can that still tastes more like the joints for this historical funding deficit that locals have on the part of the Generality. There is also a lack, from a perspective of equal treatment and non-discrimination, of equal conditions of access or access requirements between entities and associations legally constituted with a legal form and informal groups, because we have found differences in access requirements that precisely embrace the issues of race, administrative status, etc. This request is only present as essential..., requested from informal groups and not from legal entities that are legally constituted. Therefore, during the process of discussions in our parliamentary group, we will ensure that the equality of demands is for any kind of legal form, because we understand that this is an incongruity. We also value the support for the process and the simplification of the administrative processes, because, as we have denounced many times since this Faristol, it is an exercise of institutional violence to the self-organised civil society, the whole system of subsidies through excessive bureaucracy of the access procedures to this funding. And, many times, this excessive bureaucracy that they require, that they have these processes, therefore, take time and energy to the entities to devote themselves to the activity for which they have been formed, because they waste more time justifying grants, making papers and making memories, etc., than devoting time to their usual activity. So, let's take a positive look at the release of this text. There are questions that we will be discussing, specifically the coexistence between volunteering and employee staff between the same entities, which is something that we find to be very well regulated so as not to run into the difference in treatment between people working between the same entity, and we also find that there is a lack of guarantee of compliment on the part of the supramunicipal administrations that they must ensure that local administrations fund the activities of the entities. We find it lacking that, somehow, I was not covered, through a sanctioning regime or through some type of taxation, that actually this guarantee that the administrations must provide to the entities these resources is not vegi minada for an underfunding that sees directly from the Generality. We also find – and I finish – interesting that the Law 25/2015 of 30 July 2015 on volunteerism and the promotion of associationism was taken into account, so as not to run into inconsistencies between one text and another, specifically for which it does everything related to the associationism register and the volunteerism of Catalonia to give this legal certainty. And, in short, during the work of the ponència, therefore, we make those proposals of improvement to ensure that the text satisfies in detail the needs of the entities and the organizations. In short, encouraging partnership in these terms and giving support and recognition tools to entities is a very good bet from the department, whenever this does not imply that it encourages the negotiation of basic services and that the Administration is disbanded, through entities, from its obligation to provide these services to the population with this guarantee of equality, equity and universality, that is, in public and direct form. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.160.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.161.0	Thank you, President. The debate we have today on the law of the promotion of associationism is a conversation that has been going on in Catalonia for years and that has had a couple of failed attempts. We will have, at the time, a committee of experts composed of various entities that has come to publish a document of forty-three measures to promote associationism and, in concrete terms, educational associationism, which is on which I will focus my intervention, all recognize the diversity of the associated world of our country. 2014-15 there was a _second intent, but then the country began to have other priorities, and regulating the promotion of partnership was not one of them. And today, once again, a new exercise is going on, precisely, with the presentation of this bill. Let's hope, in all color, that the third time I've had my day, because there's no way to piss the sector off. We can't afford another failure. If we really start this process, it's not just a law, it's just a plan and an economic memory that accompanies it. If we don't want to go here, it's almost better that we don't open this honey. We can't play, and we have to go all the way. There are gains, but there is also scepticism in the sector. And it is that, if we look back, the territorial distribution of entities, the censuses of participants, the state of the teams, which sometimes have quite accelerated, faster, and a much higher rotation caused, among others, by the lack of recognition and experience that develops in the case of many of these entities, so... if we make this square, the situation is very worrying. We would like, in this sense, to place the emphasis on educational associationism with specific characteristics. Volunteering, gratuity, community commitment, equity, value education are the ones that represent many and many young people under the age of twenty-five, who, despite the stigmatization during the pandemic, are part of Catalonia's associative fabric. We're talking about about fifty thousand young people who are in this sector, grouped into about 650 entities, and who have a significant value for the country. And it is true that there are private foundations, service providers that, in some places, make a very important pocket. And here, for example..., we think of municipalities in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. They're working families. Due to working time concerns, they cannot devote time to reading or healing in specific time areas; therefore, counting on the possibility, in some cases, that their infants may participate in a space that aculls and educates them in place of being on the street is key. Denying that there are certain places where these educational and social spaces are being held is invisibly necessary. But we also have to think that we now have, for example, the English Court offering summer colonies, and it's accessed under the same conditions as the rest of the entities, and that can't be. Here the education in the city becomes, therefore, a product of market and entertainment only during the summer. So let's hope that precisely this bill, this legislative process, gives us the opportunity to put this complexity on the table to be first in favour of people who are more vulnerable and also young volunteers who deserve to respect and now count on conditions that are very limited. We have, for another band... we have had a public administration that has so far failed to bet bravely on the voluntary sector. And that makes the private sector see a need, a window of opportunity, in short, to grow and get rich. If a position of absolute immobilism is adopted before this reality, then it is opting, by default..., it is adopting a liberal perspective that the market self-regulates and, therefore, it would already be written for the community-based education sector, and, sadly, it would remain in the hands of those who only want to professionalize. Caldria, so..., like an intervention by public authorities in the field of education in the classroom, which is one of the aspects that this law wants to regulate, because intervention and public regulation is a factor correcting existing inequalities and the potentialities and abilities of the voluntary sector so that it does not die. And this – let's tell the members of the government – implies only political will. From In Comú Puem, where we govern, from municipalism, we have concrete and tangible examples that this recognition goes beyond an exclusively legal issue..., but it has to be concrete. Montornès del Vallès, Prat de Llobregat or Barcelona, where, after two terms of office, we have a specific programme to promote associationism such as the Baobab programme, a programme of continuity, stalled in the territory and sustainable in the time that facilitates the establishment and development of education, association and community with the creation and recognition of splais and causes in the barrel. We've put in money, we've put in political will. So let's ask the government to get involved and have more than good intentions to put themselves there. Because, in fact, if we talk about recognition from a legal and formal point of view, Education Law 12/2009 has a specific chapter that already talks about education in the classroom. I am talking, in concrete terms, about Chapter 6 and its Articles 38, 40, 41 and a few more. And, in fact, this is one of the most progressive laws at state and European level. So, what's the point of a specific legal recognition of education in the classroom, if that doesn't translate into reality? We don't want this bill to be a formal recognition, a more formal recognition; we want it to be a real recognition. And, in this case, the specific formulas of real recognition can be, for example, the declegation that brought us from the entities after the finding that we held last November, which speaks of recognizing the causes, pleasures..., educational spaces preferential to the time to guarantee the full exercise of children's rights, recognize their role as educators and builders of the community in which they play. Strengthening the forming role of schools – educators and educators – in the leurea, providing them with the necessary resources and simplifying administrative procedures. The recognition is also to establish a social recognition of the educational skills of heads and monitors at all effects, both social and work. The ultimate recognition is also the promotion of a public funding line that ensures that every child can participate in education activities in the community-based classroom, as was the line of the young man we brought from our parliamentary group to the past plenary. We have general comments on the law that we will already have the opportunity to discuss in detail. For us, it is important that any initiative or plan to promote partnership should be linked to the Community's reinforcement plans. To the barrels, to the towns of the country, there are numerous actions promoted for people who group collectively to give timely or regular response to certain needs or concerns. And the resilience of a company is measured by its ability to have, precisely, many people engulfed in dynamics of this type. Many of these initiatives are not consolidated in structures, but this does not mean that they are less important. And there is the risk of separating the promotion of the associationism from the promotion of community dynamics, when both things are related. And we think that this text should specify much more. Secondly, the best way to foster partnership is to facilitate its financial autonomy. The project refers to possible subsidies, which are always a burden on their management, both for the granting authorities and for the beneficiary entities, since in our system it encourages control rather than trust in the entities, sometimes. In the third place, and on a point-by-point basis, we believe that we need to make a much more specific effort to know the associative reality of Catalonia, don't we? , a unified register of entities, because sometimes the information that gives the registers of associations and the different joints do not give us a clear idea of which is the associative reality. Sometimes associations cannot or do not report their death when they disappear, or there is not enough to identify the current state of associationism to the country in general and to the municipality in particular. With all this, we will already enter into the details of the law when it comes to it, but we hope that the approval of this law in your Parliament will provide a new impetus for the associated movement of our country and for all entities with no desire to work, so that they can gain efficiency and efficiency, always guaranteeing transparency and quality in the care of people and in the construction of citizenship, values and critical experience in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.162.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.163.0	Thank you, President. Well, we're here to discuss a bill to promote partnership. It doesn't seem that for now I have much criticism and public success, for which it felt here, but well, I think that things to value them have to be read, if 'lshi has to see the face. So, we've read what you're saying, and we've been called to attention by a few paragraphs. For example, what you say: "Associationism in Catalonia has, therefore, a different and plural origin and structure, both from the formal point of view and from the material point of view. The richness of the model associated with Catalonia is the key to its consolidation and survival during the passage of time despite objective difficulties, despite adverse political systems, despite oppressions, persecutions or attempts to manipulate. In fact, Catalonia's associative diversity has caused those who fight it or pretend to do so to have had so many difficulties in getting out. Associationism in Catalonia has emerged as a real palar palar of a compromised and empowered civil society, building an authentic country structure. Well, it'll sound really nice to you, but it sounds like lightning to me. Sounds to me like a North Korean concept of civil society. Not that you, as a government, give vidilla to civil associations, but that you feed on them to extend their tentacles and the insatiable suction cups of their client and power networks. They believe me that I know what I am talking about, because I myself have suffered it in my flesh. As a member of the board of Societat Civil Catalana and as its president in Madrid, I had the honor to devote countless hours of my time free of charge and to have to add money many times, above, to make possible small achievements, I would almost say microheroisms. As when the current president, Elda Mata, and I shared bilingual copies of the Constitution in Girona, where the still mayor, here present, Marta Madrenas, vetoed our presence in the square of the Constitution, renamed as the One of October square, so, because yes, because she is worth it. From here, a very special greeting to my dear Elda Mata – she knows why. In short, all these adventures happened to us and pass us as elephants like Platform per la Llengua, the ANC or Ómnium Cultural spend huge resources, well public, well private, but well greased by complicity and by the touch of public cornet, to advance only your rupturist separatist agenda. Poor Josep Tarradellas, when consumed almost without resources in exile, was already appalled by how Cultural Ómnium first and the Catalan Bank of Jordi Pujol then tried to corner all their efforts to maintain the historical dignity of the Generalitat of Catalonia at a blow of influence and of stalwart. Cultural Ómnium enjoyed a palace in Paris when poor Tarradellas could only serve as president in the garden of his home in Saint-Martin-le-Beau and his wife had to turn her pants and dresses to hide her misery. Well, look, we're still in the same one. Societat Civil Catalana, to survive, has sometimes had to resort to a foundation in Madrid to channel donations in his favor, because making donations here in Catalonia under the eye of hawk, not to say vulture, of the separatist Generalitat was and is a business suicide. And who says Catalan Civil Society, says Assembly for a Bilingual School, says S'Ha Afinet! , says any entity that touches you the story. Stop disguised, in short, of generosity your insatiable kidnapping, your eagerness to buy it and control everything. I follow reading trossets from the law, from the law project. "This goal of strengthening associationism is to get the public administrations of Catalonia to activate public policies to promote this reality. That is why I am afraid to hear that you are going to activate even more public policies to promote associations of friends, friends, relocated relatives and political accomplices. If even the president of this Parliament believed that the money of the Catalan Letters Institution was to enrich your friends, what fists are you going to encourage? Although at best – at best – it gives us some clue a thread hung recently on Twitter precisely by the president of this chamber, by Laura Borràs, where she explicitly quotes Platform for Language, Ómnium Cultural and Som Escola as co-artifices of the strategy of the nationalist and socialist government to fail to comply with the sentence of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish, i.e. to combat bilingualism, the Constitution, the rule of law and even the sense of decency. Laura also says that she continues to count on all of them to negotiate a new audiovisual law, to see if you can get them to forgive TV3's VAT, which looks like that's going to be no, because you owe a fool and Pedro Sánchez, thanks to you, never gives anything to Catalonia. And they even talk about reforming the Celaá law, because... why do they want to reform the Celaá law now? Were they not so happy with what they had become? Were not those of Platforma per la Llengua presuming that they had collated what goal so that Spanish could not be a vehicle language in the Catalan school? What's the matter, that now that they get shot in the ass, because the Constitution says something else, they want to change it again? Look, this is neither associationism nor civil society. This is Fahrenheit 451. They are the immersion firefighters, the Stasi who pursue bilingualism where more rage makes them see the bloom. "Finally – and back to the project – the rule aims to establish the basis for future legislative initiatives in the field of taxation and the sponsorship of entities so that Catalonia has the skills to approve them. That, that, above all, is to be legislated on that in which they have no competence. And, in view of how you use the skills you already have, it's a shame to say and ask that you do not get any more skills until you cling to the Generalitat, that with you inside is nothing more than the cave of Ali Baba – and, from today, to Illa Baba. "The promotion of partnership is, from this perspective, a key and priority policy for the territories that seek to grow, consolidate and strengthen the organised civil society that seeks to transform the reality of the common good. For all the above, fear suggests what you will understand for the ‘common good'. "The law foresees that the promotion measures benefit preferably associations. Listen, not a word from the foundations, which they significantly forget. What, are you afraid of systemic and not cosmetic philanthropy, which, for example, last Saturday, on the 185th anniversary of the Liceu Foundation, defended Sergi Ferrer-Salat? By the way, Laura Borràs was ahead and even read a poem in Spanish. It seems that before the fine people of the Liceu you can do things that are unthinkable in this Parliament. Anyway, you have so clear everything you have to do with our money that even a foundation with patrons bothers you. So they want that, a clearly North Korean model of civil society. Well... they eat it with their bread. Water.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.164.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.165.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counsellor, and also to the other Members and people who are with us in this debate. The truth is that, listening to some of the speeches, I am surprised that there is not an amendment to the whole, which, however, no group has tabled it, but well, I see that there are several detractors of this bill that the Government brings today, which, moreover, brings it quite late, councillor, you know. We have been waiting seven years, since 2015 that the law of volunteering was already passed; since 2016, also, when the Catalan Congress of Associationism was held..., but well, after seven years, finally the Government brings us this project. And I believe that..., we do not agree, either, from the People's Party, with the text before us, but it is true that we have the opportunity to open a paper, that experts come, that we can make amendments and correct those aspects of this law that we do not like. I do not think that we have to carry..., or that they have to be the victims of the disagreements that we may have, the associative fabric, which, I insist, has been waiting a long time, but it is true that there are things with which, of course, we do not agree. One of them, for example, is that perhaps it was not even necessary to adopt a rule of law for you to get to work. In other words, it is not necessary to have a law for Catalan public administrations to promote policies to support and promote associationism. It is true that it can provide some advantage, and that is why I insist that we have not tabled this amendment in its entirety, because, in some way, this law can protect us against the arbitrariness of the government at that time. But, well, I think we all know that, in the end, even though a law provides for it, the important thing is to make the content of that law effective, if it is finally approved. And that is done mainly through the budget, because here we already have several experiences of laws that are not deployed, that are not resourced and that serve absolutely nothing. And I hope it doesn't happen in this case, because, I insist, we've been waiting too long. I've done a bit of a review of the budgets of the past few years. In the 2022 budget, in the programme..., in the 323, which is the one that speaks precisely of volunteering, there is an item of only 3,3_million_de_euro, which is already a little lower than we had in the 2020 budget, which was around 3,4, almost 3 and a half_million_de_euro. But, for example, if we look at the budgets of 2017..., it is that it is infinitely, but infinitely..., much lower, what you have budgeted in the last year. Therefore, I repeat: perhaps here we have brought this bill and we have all come out triumphant today because we have passed the first procedure. If then the government doesn't put money in here and spend it on other things, we're gonna stay the way we were. And I'm telling you, the data isn't very hopeful, Counselor. Another aspect that concerns us is the real will that may exist behind the adoption of this law. I insist that I believe it is commendable that public administrations want to implement measures to support partnerships; moreover, I believe that they need to be adopted in order to really guarantee and give effect to citizens' right of assembly and association. In Catalonia, moreover, we have a very organized civil society, sincerely, very involved, with a large number of associations and also private foundations that need to be protected, but it is essential and vital also to keep alive the private spirit, which drives the free creation of this kind of private organizations. It is therefore necessary to respect the free will of the people who promote these associations, who promote these foundations, but they must also be guaranteed and respected, above all, the freedom and self-organisation of these entities, and the freedom also in their internal life. And the only limit that should exist to this freedom and self-organisation should therefore be the lawfulness of the purposes pursued by that organization and, of course, compliance with the legal order, or at least it should be. But, of course, what you present to us in this bill is far from what I am telling you. In the end, what you intend to do with this initial text is to interfere with the internal life of associations, foundations, by introducing in the article – for example, Article 5 or Article 26 – general requirements that ensure that these entities are beneficiaries of the promotion measures provided for in this law. Or, in other words, if associations and foundations do not meet those requirements that you believe are necessary, then they will not be able to benefit from the norm. What's going on? It happens that, behind what you have called ‘general requirements', we are seeing ideological and political requirements. And that, of course, is something we do not agree with. I do not believe that these are essential and general requirements, e.g. measures or environmental issues, gender perspective, gender parity, etc., as set out in Article 5 of this bill. I insist that we can share some of the requirements, but not all of them. And in the end, what we think is hidden behind all this is trying to control the internal life of private entities, and then you..., depending on whether you like it or not, then you can benefit from the norm or not. Obviously, with this, of course, we will not agree – it will be one of the amendments we put to the joint text – and we will see what remains of that final text after the presentation and of listening also to the experts and of seeing also the other amendments that other groups can put forward. And finally, it also seems to us that the text, because it is too vague on some issues, is too open on certain aspects that we believe are important, that are vital for the promotion of associationism, such as, for example, the subject of the budget – which I have already commented to you – the subject of subsidies, stimulus measures, everything that also refers to sponsorship... That is to say, in the end, what is reflected in this bill for us is more a declaration of intent, which is not bad, but it is that, after seven years of waiting, perhaps they could have made a little more concrete, and no real obligations are being created for the Government in this regard. All this has been excluded from the articulation of the norm. There is some additional provision dealing with some of these issues, but I insist that we believe that there is little concreteness of issues that are fundamental. Therefore, in the end, it seems to us that the content of the project, or at least this initial text that they present to us, can be a mere toast to the sun to fulfill this process, so as not to be in debt for another seven years, and it seems to us that it is not credible above all if we take into account the data from the budget that I mentioned before, which, moreover, there has been a significant decrease. It is true that in 2017 the programme included other issues that not now, as subjects of the third social sector, but you know perfectly well that there has been a decrease. As I told you at the beginning of the speech – and to conclude this – we have not tabled the amendment in its entirety because it seems to us that..., we do not want to harm the associative fabric and that this law cannot at least start this process of amendments, but it is true that we will try to correct these issues during the presentation, and, if not, it will cost us a lot of support for the text. But let us hope that it is not so, that we can give it a green light and that we are not waiting for another seven years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.166.0	It's the turn, now, of the Deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.167.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, members of the Government and authorities that you will accompany us in the processing of this draft law to promote associationism... A draft law that was presented to us today by Councilwoman Cervera and that gives response to the parliamentary mandate of July 2015 through the voluntary law and with the encouragement of associationism with which it is complemented. And it does so with the ultimate aim of putting into value our country's membership structure, of making it an explicit and extensive recognition in the social and competitive sphere, giving it the legal certainty that is required, thus strengthening the territorial retrieval entities and enhancing their impact, but also with this simplification to which we referred in relation to the different administrations. With its approval, therefore, a law regulating in a stable and specific way basic and primordial questions for the development of associationism will be laid down for the first time. And, obviously, we're celebrating that today he's in this parliamentary chamber, that we're starting the parliamentary process and this debate with all the groups and all the political forces. And today I am particularly pleased to talk about this law, because precisely the interest in politics, the interest in the public good arises from associationism, with this look wide from the local world, from youth associationism in other areas such as education, as can be from education, as can be cultural, as can be social, but also politics, which we share with many members of this chamber, and for which we have acquired values that are paramount in politics, such as consensus, such as participation, as is the value of democracy, of service to the country and, obviously, also of management and commitment to work. In this sense, I think it is important, therefore, to stress that Catalonia is characterized by being one of the most closely associated territories, without any doubt, with an organized and powerful civil society. It is calculated, in fact, that the universe of this bill integrates that of 25,000 entities and, moreover, also 1_million_i_mig of partners and associations within the country. But, at the same time, it is no less important that these associations have been involved in the most complex moments of these years with the arrival of the covid-19, with shows of solidarity, with the involvement, with this self-organisation, with this enormous effort to overcome the consequences of this severe economic crisis, but also social and health care, thus maintaining its activity, its mission, despite its complexity, and, therefore, today bringing this law into this parliamentary chamber, even more so, also giving this public recognition and effect to the whole of the association. If I may, and before I enter into the detail of the law, I consider it also essential to speak of the National Youth Council, which has later, therefore, rejected the attack of some of these political forces represented in Parliament, and to show it the support as participants and members of the Council of Associationism and Volunteerism, also members and participants of this law. And to focus on continuing to defend the rights and freedoms of young people in our country, from the conjunction of more than 200,000 young associates and associates with Catalonia. And that, therefore, before this constant repression and this party that they try to carry in this chamber, we will continue to struggle. Entering, therefore, now, into the detail of this draft law on which the associationism arises, it is important that we speak at the historical level of the concept as to such an associationism, that it was not defined in our country, and the importance that comes into this law, that it becomes essence and that it can be articulated. In fact, as we say, this phenomenon of involving itself goes from the moon, but it is certain that it has experienced repression over the years. In fact, it was done in the course of Francoism, but also with the arrival of democracy, and this huge task in this historical mark that brings today to make the recognition with the legal framework and competence of the Government of the Generality..., arriving in this way at a bill of law that retracts all the requests or much of the requests fruit of the consensus and fruit of the work with the entities that represent the sector, but, moreover, also from the different departments, with this transversality and with this wide-ranging look of the association, but also from the local world, from the Third Catalan Congress of Associationism and Volunteerism, from the Council and from the first finding that it was brought to an end with the voluntary association of post-association. In this sense, it has worked, therefore, to detect the needs that it would need to incorporate into this law, into the debate spaces, as a tipping point and as a overcoming point to strengthen and to make grow and consolidate this task that they carry out, and of which the administrations also have an essential and important part to be able to consolidate. From the objectives, therefore, of the content of this law..., let me summarise it into four axes that I consider basic and essential in these thirty-two articles, five titles, four additional dispositions and five finals, that complement and that make valdre, in the first place, the partnership to consolidate it, to strengthen and encourage the territory of these programs that allow participation, but also the proximity to children, young people and adolescents, and do so in the case of the population, in the educational sphere, but also in other areas, such as universities. In this sense, at the practical level it has to be translated into a work and collaboration agreements between the educational centres and associations of the territory and in joint projects for such an inclusion in the school curriculum values propitious to the associationism. But, in addition, also at the university level, they promote actions that recognize young people's participation in associations and the validation of knowledge acquired in obtaining university degrees. Values that, as we say, are phonative and of those that we need to go to school. But, for another group, it also highlights, as in the second central area, the coordination of administrations in order to promote associationism, to encourage and do so with the support of the municipalities, of all the local authorities: not only the Government of Catalonia, but also by questioning the assemblies, the provincial parliaments and, obviously, also the regional councils, with this network to bring to the proximity and the action of the social dimension of the association. And to advance also to a single window, an administrative simplification demanded on various occasions that must allow, with this coordination of the departments of Social Rights, Justice, Vice-President, Digital Policies and Territories..., and to review this technological system that operates and facilitates, therefore, all the procedures that are carried out between the Administration and between entities, such as aids, subsidies, etc. And to do so, plus, like the fourth, in a stable and close regulatory framework for all entities, but also for all citizens and for all administrations, who recognize this task and do so in the case of all entities also without a desire to work. Therefore – and for the end, President – as I have expressed, Catalonia's associate tissue occupies a key role, a priority role, and it is thanks to this one that we have to put into value the political agenda and the decision-making of claims that have been historic throughout our country: struggles, shared victories, which have made it from the broadest aspect, from the educational sphere, from the realm of reading, culture, association, civil rights, sport, etc. Therefore, today we are taking a step forward and deciding to start this parliamentary process, as I said, which must allow us to enter the debate and, obviously, therefore, incorporate other aspects that today have become a reality and consolidate the associated fabric as a social transformation agent but also participation, compromise and critical experience for all the citizens who define us as Catalans. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.168.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.169.0	Well, thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, members of the Government to accompany us in this debate of the initiators of this bill... I have to say that I did not expect to start the intervention expressing my coincidence with Mrs Roldán for some of the interventions we have heard here. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right and gentlemen of Ciutadans, you know that Parliament's register does not move; if someone does not agree with a bill of law, they can submit a statement to the whole and do, therefore, the debate with ownership, right? Well, the associationism has a long trajectory – he said – to our country, as at least from the moment when the country is considered as such. Beyond previous manifestations, in essence the associationism arises from industrialization. It emerges from that period, too, that our country has been named Renaissance. A trajectory in which young people, as has also been explained, have had a special protagonist historically, but also singularly, on the arrival of this law here today. And, therefore, I would like to begin with the recognition in the pocket of the Council of Associationism and Volunteerism and, in particular, the National Council of Youth of Catalonia. Why now? It has been explained: this law arises, therefore, from the compliment of a compromise of a transitory disposition of the law of volunteering of 2015 that, certainly, has arrived now – they have passed more than six years. And it is also true, at the same time, that the country has not been easy these years, but it is now true that we have a government that governs, that it exercises its responsibility to the maximum and that it has speeded up to build on the commitments it has made. Because only by exercising at most all the responsibilities that we have now we will win, also before the Catalan citizenry, the right to which we aspire from full sovereignty. Above, however, at an opportune moment, because, beyond the country's associative trajectory, we are at a post-covid moment, in full globalization and digital transformation, which makes it more necessary than ever a public policy of broad-sightedness to foster associationism and popular participation in the form of organized and empowered citizenship, reptes that encompasses this law. Some, therefore, have also explained themselves, like the challenge of recovering activity, of reactivating associationism with all its potential after the health pandemic and the covid, which has inevitably gone more individually to each of us. You also have to face the speech of hate and the attempt to divide our society that we have. Where there's social fabrication, there's stronger communities. Where there are stronger communities, there is more collective consciousness. Where there is more collective consciousness, there is real democracy. And where there is more real democracy is where the democratic stage of the extreme right, of the speech of hatred and of the division of popular classes to the benefit of the elites of the past is least. In fact, when we say that partnership is a guarantee of political participation and political incidence and full democracy, it is not rhetorical, it is very practical. If not, think, you, each and every one of you, in the immense and indispensable task that associations make in the day-to-day of parliamentary activity, in the contribution in each of the areas that they make to us every day. Therefore, associationism also strengthens the country's own institutions, and it is a waste that, in fair correspondence, the institutions have a public policy that allows to strengthen and muscle much more associationism. A public policy, a law, that we must have the capacity, from this Parliament, to align with objectives with a global view, with other legislative initiatives that we have on the way at these times. Yesterday it recorded the law of the third social sector. The government has the development of the law of the social economy in progress. They are initiations that have communicating vessels, that are intrinsically connected and that we must know, therefore, also bind. Because, of course, it's not just good words. And this law was not only a recognition that is essential and that is necessary, it also reduced bureaucracy to ensure that it did not stick to the activity of associationism. It has not felt full, year after year and every window in which an association interacts with an administration, the same data systemically. It must be eliminated through participation, free association of people in our country, in every barri, village and city. The Administration has to be to be useful. It is only a few days ago that the deu_per_cent of the splats of our country, to give only an example, do not have a place. And these types of questions are the ones we have to deal with from the legislation, but also from the dialogue and from the coordination and cooperation between the different administrations. And with a reptile that encompasses all that I have explained so far: being able to regulate without limiting, but to propel; an environment that, by definition, is changing, is diverse, is very broad and full of partnerships with a long tradition to informal groups and placards, with materials that are intrinsic to the potential of the association, that are heritage and rich in the propiety of the association. And, therefore, we must go very carefully not to generate homogenizing consequences that would also be impoverishing. We share an element, which is the recognition and impulse of any collection project that is dedicated to building well together. And there is no excuse that is worth it: we cannot afford to take advantage of the opportunity to build this common good, community work, collectible heritage, in a society that, unfortunately, is still very unequal, yet it is very little fair. And it's not just a question of social, democratic and civic participation – it's also – and it's also a question of boosting economic progress. And it is that one of the differential factors of the Catalan society that has also historically contributed to us economic progress is explained by this community network of interpersonal bonds and collectivities generated by associationism. Associationism promotes the generation of collective identities that drive community empowerment through a cultural, educational, relational and political dimension. They correspond to republican values of civic virtue and patriotism, for those who believe in a citizenry that participates and is involved in public matters. Both public and private authorities must be controlled by an empowered citizenry, participative in public life, in defense of the general interest. And of this implication is not the feeling of adherence to the republic, to the participation of the projects of the common good, to the sense of representativeness of our own institutions. Because associative participation does not only improve on us as society; it also individually, as citizens and citizens. It puts in value skills, abilities or experiences acquired in associationism, a learning that can only be if it is experiential and does not only arise from the world of work. This importance of associationism also needs to be put into value in this sense, and the law does. Because Community work seeks to address the transformation of collective social situations through organisation and associative action, mainly using awareness, organization and mobilization. We have taken a step forward to protect and promote a reality that goes from the far, which is at the very origin of the social and country consciousness, which has deep roots. And our compromise is that this process is going well, that we can preserve the victories achieved in the dialog until we get to today. And, humbly, if we can get any more, then I'm sure they're all there. I ended up with a quote from Master Clavé, a unique propi name that represents with no thousands of anonymities who, making associationism, have made a better and more free country: « Partner and you will be strong, instruct and you will be free, esteem and you will be happy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.170.0	Thank you very much. So, the debate is over, and as long as there are no items in totality, this initiative will continue its parliamentary processing. We suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.171.0	Let's resume the session. [[Asked the Government about the first year of government]] [[300-00178/13]] We did so with the third point of the order, the question to the government about the first year of government, which the Socialist and Unites Parliamentarians Group presented to advance. And you have the word, to expose it, Mrs Romero's deputy. [[Greetings and soundings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.172.0	"Really? [[Rialles.]] Why do they burn it, huh? If not, I'd say other things. [[Rialles.]] Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President. MPs and MPs... I wanted, before I went on, to send a strong hug to Councilwoman Vilagrà, who today cannot be among us, and therefore the vice president will replace her. And I want to send her a hug and her whole family. On May 21st it was a year ago that President Aragonès was invested. It has to be said that it was not an easy investiture. You're obvious, aren't you? The agreement between Esquerra Republicana, the CUP and Junts for Catalonia trigated three months in cooking, and therefore we held it right after, three months after those elections of the 21st of February. A few days later the councillors took possession of them, and, therefore, May 26 was able to walk this Government of the Generality. It's... it's... it would play, wouldn't it? Ask us a question, after this year of government, which is how the lives of the citizens have improved since the reign of President Aragonès and his advisers, isn't it? And, frankly, the truth is that, despite their efforts yesterday, and that we listened very carefully, to explain what they did the first year, and this presentation we could have had, right? We see that you have made, therefore, a page and a half of the summary of what you have made this year, in these four transformations. In short, it seems quite scathing, quite insufficient for a government that already carries twelve_months managing and that does not see again, but that already carried a few legislatures, and, therefore, knew the Administration well. It was the one who was running the last few years, and therefore it is much easier to continue to develop these tasks. I also have to say that it doesn't seem strange to us, considering that you have devoted more energy to trying not to break the government than to do what it is to do to a government, which is to govern, right? And, therefore, so..., in fact, one can hear this page and summary half of the most outstanding actions of this government. And it's true that you've devoted yourselves to not breaking up. Divisions have been a pattern, haven't they? In all this year. And we say so because there were very clear divisions in fears that are uplifting, right? Please refer the vice president this morning to Barcelona airport, for example, to enlargement. So it's a disgrace that we can't be working on this enlargement and this big reversal. He also passed us with the cancellation of the contract of the Circuit de Catalunya. We've been through... not so much now, but we've also been through the Winter Games of 2030; with the dial table, where only a part of the government participated. And also discrepancies, that we see at every control session, on the path to independence that one and another partner seems to want to carry in a different way. Thus, in the end, a clear division between the governing partners, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra. But not just among them, we've also seen with the CUP, which was the investment partner that allowed President Aragones to develop these functions, right? A group, that of the CUP, which, on the first change, the first that had to be marked and positioned in a more salient theme, the most salient theme that approves a Parliament, that is the assumptions, has already pulled back and did not approve some assumptions, that is the one that marks the path of the whole year, of the policies that the Government will develop all year. So, finally, most of the investment was broken, divisions followed, and, therefore, we couldn't dedicate ourselves to what we really care about. Look..., and I want to get back to the question I asked you: how people's lives have improved, right? Because here, in the end... let's go to the concrete things. Look, I'll take care of some things. In greeting, look, the primary attention, col·lapsada. Obviously, we don't get to the twenty-five percent reversal we're asking for, but it's lack of resources and lack of will, too, and ability to solve problems. Waitlists: we are the autonomous community that more waitlists have. Clearly, this affects salvation, because while we wait for our salvation it is degrading, and therefore we are causing more problems, still. It didn't get any better, that. And the other day, my company took escarpment, didn't it? Five years for a breast reconstruction, five years after a cancer. Home, it doesn't seem very reasonable. But it's just that it didn't get any better this year, we didn't get any better at waiting lists. And if we're talking about mental salvation, a subject that worries me a lot, and I believe, in this Parliament, because we haven't spoken very often, so we're not moving forward with the rapids that fall into this subject, are we? Two-hundred_seventy emotional references are absolutely insufficient, but more so, when you talk to CAPs, they clearly say that they do not cover the needs and that they do not just find their space in this dynamic. Therefore, we have not resolved some of the important themes of salvation. But if we're talking about education, we haven't developed inclusive school rules, and we have a lot of problems after the pandemic in our classrooms, right? And it's... school drop-out: we're one of the regions with the worst data from all over the European Union. We haven't put in any resources or programs to solve this. We follow very far from the six_per_cent of GDP, obviously one of the great petitions. And, it's true – he was talking about the zero-three this morning the president – we want to see how the course starts and if it isn't the gatherings, the ones who will have to pay this P2 gratuity next year. So, I wouldn't pose... I wouldn't be so sorry, because I'd like to see who ends up paying for this, that the joints don't follow. That, besides, as they already have elections to the year they see, so it's going to be a movement of pressure on them on the part of the government. And, finally, the party will end up paying for it, as always, the local world. And the last one, the dialect, because today there was another time in public school. Absolute underprivilegedness to the educational community and underprivileged the union by Councillor Cambray, who was already clearly failed by society and clearly by the educational community, when he unilaterally changed the school calendar. Well, I have little girls; I hope we finally start on September 5th, which I don't know either. As we do not know exactly what programs will be done from one in the middle, because neither has been explained, nor with what resources. Finally, a deproposal, all folded, that seems to me to show who was the ruling year of President Aragonès, right? , that it is an insufficient government, insufficient policies, and, moreover, very poorly managed and very poorly remembered. And, in the social sphere, too... in short, the list could be very long. I will say two things: on the waiting list of dependence we are at the _monthly split – also the autonomous community of all Spain with the worst waiting lists. And now you could say: "No, look, listen, the one that best manages the waiting lists is Castile and León, which governs the People's Party. You're saying that neither... huh? It's not that I want to wear the Socialist medal, but it's that we're the worst in so many things, is it? – in so many things – that I would like that, from time to time, we could go back to this crow and start being the best in anything, but no. And President Aragonès announced in his investiture a social security plan of 700_million euros that we have not yet seen. It is to say, of course, a look and say: "So I don't know, they did make a list of a page and medium, but... finally, the list of incompliments and what they haven't made is very long. It's very long, and it's not a government that's been running for so many years, is it? So, of revolution and social transformation, nothing. And if we're talking about transformation and green revolution, neither. Today President Aragonès was sorry, wasn't he? , we don't have enough industrial development skills linked to the Next Generation fund. And I would like to say that it is surprising, because one of the best policies to boost industry is to bet on energy policy – Mr Terrades and Mrs Paneque know this well, don't they? And, of course, your energy issues are very, very little, not to mention almost nothing. And don't tell us, huh? The College of Industrial Engineers has now submitted a report that said that it was almost impossible for Catalonia to adjust 2030 to the path of decarbonization. And if this is a drama from the climate point of view, it's also from the lost economic opportunities. Miri, of the 1,000 megawatts that you explain every time you're dealing with the Generality..., the ministry, the government of Spain isn't dealing with seven thousand–seven thousand–seven times more. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... You have also given up speeding up the administration's procedures. We do not understand how it can be, bearing in mind that we are at the forefront of renewables. We have not yet made any information about the new energy transition law that they announced, nor about this territorial plan that had to be established where renewable energies were deployed, which sometimes, therefore, generates problems or strange dynamics in the territory, have we? Therefore, an insufficient balance that does not bring about a green transformation, obviously – it must be of another color, but not green – nor a revolution. And I wanted to end what you say about the feminist revolution. Miri, the women are fifty-two percent of society. We see very few equal policies in this government. Today my company, Gemma Lienas, asked the counselor about male violence. The truth is, I didn't feel represented by the counselor. You've waited for more empathy; you've waited for more empathy and more understanding of women than I do when we go alone, we've waited for girls who go alone... Finally, you've waited for an answer that I said: "Yes, we have to fight more against this social chakra. And surely one of the ways to fight is education, because what it can't be is that some divisive kids come out of the police station and the victors as if they were heroes because they raped a girl of twelve. This can't be, there must be some educational problem. In short, a little more empathy. But we haven't even updated the male rape protocol yet. In a year, man, so... I mean, considering it's a tough problem, we could have updated it. In short, neither feminist revolution nor democratic revolution, which I would like to say... And you here speak of the law bite, only. I would like to say: look, the squadron moves do their job well, but they could do it better with more resources and more direction, a clearer direction, not the one marked by the CUP. And, in the democratic revolution, there is nothing more democratic than the dialect. I would also like to say that, further beyond asking Spain – and we will help it to follow – we would also like to see the opening in Catalonia and we can talk to each other and see how we can get out of it, right? Because we have seen that when we talk, we are able to reach agreements to advance Catalonia. And that's our position, and so it's what we'd like, too... not just practice but practice it all. And here in Catalonia, the truth is, this is what it takes. So, if it seems to you, Vice President, I'll stay here. Then I have other things to comment on. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.173.0	Subsequently, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.174.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Congresswoman Romero, yes, today's... Well, these days a year ago, this new government got in the way, and so we're here to make a balance. A balance that has to be based, obviously, on the political agreement that we have reached in the sphere of the agreement of the investiture, of the legislature, but also on the plan of government, eh? And, therefore, these are the two elements that allow us to evaluate and, therefore, measure this government. I'd like to say one thing– you've made reference to it. Listen, when we go into the Tarradellas Hall, the government's advisors and advisors – and I said it in my first government session a year ago –... this government is a government alone, but we are a coalition government, with everything that involves a coalition government. You didn't make a mockery of it, but, of course, I'd like to know, exactly... in which coalition government we should be admiring, huh? Should we be admiring PSOE's coalition government and Podemos in Madrid? In this one, should we be admiring, that every day they have discussions between ministers in public? We should be admiring in the Colau-Collboni government, where the mayor announces a drop in the train and subway ticket, so unilaterally, without even knowing your own..., yourself, the governing partners? Is this the government we should be admiring? Or maybe it's the government of Sant Cugat, a government with the CUP? Is this the government we're supposed to be admiring? I'm telling you why I know him very well, this government, how it's working, huh? The coalition governments obviously have their differences. And what it's all about is that, above all, there's a lot of... obviously, you've got them present, you know, to be able to pull forward, huh? And this is a government that pulls forward, look forward. And during this year, I think, he did a great job of solace on a large part of the goals to which he had committed himself. And he has done so with difficulty often alien to his own Government, and therefore with difficulty that we come, in this case, for example, from a background or situation in which we live, where, obviously, we are under the persecution of the Court of Auditors, the espionage of Pegasus, the offensives against català..., in other words, to see how exiles cannot return. These are difficult with whom we also have to fight, and they certainly don't have the other coalition governments I've mentioned before. So, god-in-law, huh? What we were able to do this year, and I also have the feeling that we must still be managing, obviously, the consequences of the pandemic and also managing the issue of the war in Ukraine, which, obviously, is also an element for which we are concerned. And we do, obviously, without being able to have all the tools of sobriety that we'd like to have, huh? , which would enable us to solve many of these problems: fiscal sovereignty, legislative sovereignty, democratic sovereignty. In any case, I have to tell you that the economic data of this past year or of these past two years, obviously, are data that some of them can put on the table. For example, 2021 there was a record of exports to Catalonia. We're going to get over all the 2019 figures. Or, for example, according to this year's expansion diary, March 8th..., a breue to expansion – if that's what it was in Madrid, surely the cover – said that Catalonia has captured the seventy percent of Spain's tech companies during 2021. Economic figures, therefore, which show that the country is doing well, is pulling; with the difficulties, obviously, that we have and that we have as a consequence of the global reptes, but that... well, I don't think we can paint a catastrophic situation..., catastrophic..., hey... [[relays]] It's as catastrophic as you painted. We have completed with a 33,88_per_cent the objectives that we have marked and that are defined in the plan of government. I'll go over a few details, huh? For example, in the field or in the first of the axes, which is for a green, balanced and connected country, which is one of the important policies of this government. So, look, to begin with, let's continue with the optical fiber deployment record across the country to make this territorial balance precisely possible, to get this infrastructure to the full – I know that you also agree with this initiative. And so, this is a project that we're going to finish this legislature and that's on the right track. Or, for example, everything you refer to – you mentioned – that you are pushing yourself to respect the law of renewables, and therefore the whole energy transition process that we have to live like the country. Work has been done in this sense, and I therefore believe that this will also be one of the great axes of this legislature. Also for what it does to the fight against climate change, and here, specifically, from the perspective of decarbonization of mobility, which, as you know, is the main emitter of gases, in this case, harmful– therefore, of CO2–, to fight against climate change. And, in this sense, the bet we are making for infrastructure related to the train and, therefore, railways is also very important. Four subway stations opened already in this legislature. We introduced the Tarragona tram train. We also remember with you – certainly with your minister – the high-speed AVE stations at the airports of Reus and Girona. And, obviously, we are also promoting the underground of railways in Manresa. I say a few, but there could be many more in this area. And also, with the approval of the rural agenda and the urban agenda, we are working precisely for the country's territorial balance, with very concrete measures in these areas. Listen, a country too... the second is a country of rights, opportunities and welfare. Here, obviously, I could detail that the degree of compliment is 35,6_per_cent. And, among them, I would highlight the health plan 2021-2025 or, for example, the impulse of the programme of recovery of diagnostic and surgical activities, among other measures in the field of health. Or, in the area of social rights, for example, everything that refers to the eight-hundred new residential and day care places for people with physical or intellectual disabilities. Or, for what it does to the realm, too, of culture, escort, the national language pact I think is an agreement and a pact that they intend to push it forward in all spheres, which at these times is backwards. And, of course, thank them to you who have been on the rise today, precisely, with what they will be, say, the processing that we will do of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, listen, on the school thing, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I think they had to be, and therefore I am aware, precisely, that in the area of català at school I think it was important, this country consensus pact. Also with projects like the Aina project, because we have to approach the catal from all its disciplines – not only obviously from the school environment. Or, for example, also help them that we are doing and that we have done in the cultural sector as a result of what they have done in the area of, say, the pandemic, we have seen their activities, therefore, clearly affected. Or the gratuity of P2, as you have commented..., or l2, in this case, to use the most appropriate terminology. And, therefore, there are some of the initials that, finally, are on this list, which you said was just from a page and a medium. There are many more pages, but obviously, if a summary is executed, it is because, so to speak, some of them go unchecked. In the field of the knowledge economy, digital and entrepreneurial, therefore, with a thirty_per_cent compliment..., highlight – and now join us with Constellera Geis – among them, for example, that we have lowered the thirty_per_cent the cost of grade materials and a forty_per_cent the official masters in public universities. Or, for example, the science bill, the first one we approved as government. Or the increase in almost six-hundred places of access to the degree of Nursing for the coming course. These are some of the measures we are taking in this area. As, for example, also important investments that have been made in the field of what is to be the new industrial transition to be made in this country, digital and green, and, therefore, both the Mont-roig du Camp battery component factory and the announcement that we have also known, yesterday, about microxips, and, therefore, the Intel bet for Catalonia, which I think are also interesting projects. Or the project that we are driving of the digital hub and the audiovisual, located in the Three Xemeneies, that will come to develop this urban play with, to say the least, an extension of what was the success story of the 22 @ for which it does, say, at the attraction of technological entrepreneurs long these years. Or, for example, in the field of justice and good governance, the opening of nine delegations abroad – from forty-four to sixty-three countries – that we open, with these openings of nine delegations, precisely to make a good international action of better acceptance also of the people in this sense. Or, for example, all the nine places that are being projected and created in the area of the bodies..., in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra or the Cos de Bombers – 840 and 240 for each part – with a forty_per_cent of spaces reserved for women – therefore, with a clear bet to feminize these bodies. These are some of the measures. I don't have any more time. In any case, I will be able to continue with my intervention. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.175.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.176.0	Thank you, President. So, look, vice president, it's not a catastrophe, no; it's reality. I'd already like it to be a catastrophe, which means it's something that came unexpectedly. No, no, it's the reality. The reality is this data we've given him. And we don't like to explain it to each other, do we? Not much less; on the contrary, he knows that we are at his side to try to change them. In fact, we have presented, we have presented..., the president of our group, Salvador Illa, presented forty-three proposals for a pact to the president in order to settle some of these things, right? And so... in fact, we don't like it. But not only does the Socialists and Units Group not like to advance, it is that in the last CEO forty-three_per_cent of the citizens of Catalonia suspend the government. And the middle note they put on the government is a 4.3, that's to say... well, I guess I don't think it's just a theme... our vision, but I think it's a big enough global vision. That this government disagrees, that it is divided, that it loses many energies in this and, in change, it does not do the work that surrounds it, I think it is a palpable evidence. You talk about Madrid and many governments. I could also talk to him about so many coalition governments that work, but it's that Madrid also works: approve very important laws, as has been the labor reform; now... Discrepancies are fine; discrepancies..., if they bring you to the right place, it's to say, if they lead you to approve a labor reform or to approve assumptions. But, of course, the discrepancy that leads you to not have the expansion of the airport, you see if we have the Winter Games... that's what it can't be. Yes, discrepancies, all of them, but to get to the right place. And you, unfortunately, don't get there. That's the reality, isn't it? You told me about Ukraine. Look, it's true that this war is affecting us a lot, especially from the economic point of view. Look, we went to two meetings that President Aragonès summoned us to, but we didn't get back. We've taken two photographs... we'd like to be working on a response document, measures to respond to this war, and not... well, we don't have it. I don't know if he has Congressman Cid, who's here, but we don't. And now they'll bring us some decree with measures, but they haven't been agreed. But... you know what happens to you? What they have – and this is the fate of President Aragonès who does not have President Sánchez – who has a responsible and constructive opposition that makes Catalonia advance. [[Some applause.]] This is the fate of President Aragonès who does not have President Sánchez. This is an obvious, very clear difference with Madrid. We are. And now Ukraine's decree will come, and, finally, I'm sure that Congressman Cid, the group of ordinary people and we will vote for it, because, if it's to advance Catalonia, we are. It's not the same with you; it's nothing, but this is quite a significant difference. Miri, you've told me... Miri, you've approved... they've not approved two, here–two–of laws; law projects, two: assumptions and measures, because the issue of endorsements came as decreed by law to make some points that asked us to the Board of State Guarantees. Oh, come on, they've approved what obviously, man, is the base, right? The presuppositions. It's here. They have five legislative initiatives on the way, it's true, but they've approved this, the assumptions, it's already. And, besides, without agreeing with his priority partner, who was the CUP. But I don't think that's it either. I mean, to get through, honestly, too much pit. So, when you talk about the situation... Miri, this CEO also said that people are very pessimistic about the future of Catalonia: the eighty percent of the citizens say that the situation is worse. That is to say, man, I think we should be able to create more optimism and a situation..., or at least solve some of the problems that I have mentioned here: in the social, health, educational, industrial fields... We have had a lot of good news, it is true, in Mont-roig del Camp, but we think we need to make plans, but above all we need to take action with resources; if not, we will not get out of it. This is basic. And then you talk every time you do it... I respect it very much, but this complaint that "we don't have enough skills, "we don't have enough resources, "the day we follow a state... Look, I don't know, but I tell you one thing: you have a presumption of 36,000_million euros, very many skills that the State gives you, and many times they don't manage them well. They want more, but why? If they don't manage them well, many of them have. And I don't give them an example: look, you manage the non-contributory pension, huh? , which was previously managed by the State, that's, and they asked for it and they already have it. Do you know how many triguen days in managing the non-contributory pension? Eight months. Do you know how late the State was? Eleven days. That is to say, the disgrace of the citizens who are to receive the non-contributory pension, which now, because it is managed by the Government of the Generality, takes eight months, when it was eleven days before. Miri, skills, all of them, but to manage them well. And I don't think you can give a lot of lessons here either. Now, I insist, President Aragonès is very lucky to have a constructive position that they are hand in hand to agree. And, obviously, we, beyond that, will continue to build our alternative, that we believe Catalonia needs solvency, leadership, firmness, rigour, generosity and decision-making in all the decisions that this country needs, and that there are many. Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.177.0	Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice President of the Government, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.178.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, miri, I'll give you the reason for one thing, huh? Mr. Sanchez does not have a constructive opposition, basically because the opposition has it in the government. And so, of course, with these partners, it's hard sometimes, so pull ahead with the next five initiatives. But, said that, listen, maybe we'll have to fix ourselves..., since you haven't told me any coalition government in which we can fix ourselves, we'll fix ourselves..., you, who define it as this constructive opposition that they say, right? Like the shadow cabinet, it seems to me that they said – the government in the shadow –..., does it mean that more than a government in the shadow are not a government of joke? Now in Màrius Serra you could do it over the anagram, huh? Anyway... But tell him that, in any case, I prefer that they be a government of joke rather than a government in the dark, in this case, like the government we have in Madrid, that, for example, so..., in fact, he does not want to put light, for example, on fiscal balances. We have known today that, one year more, we will not publish the fiscal balances, it was not that we know that every year they want 16,000_millions of Catalonia, according to the last official studies, or, according to the same Councillor of Economy, 20,000_millions of euros in the last studies. So, listen, put on the dark, publish..., do what you can, and stop being a joke government. They help, in this case, and they make the government build, as you say, or constructive opposition, and they make fiscal balances public. In any case, of course, I've given him figures from the compliment level that this government has. It looks like they're not believed; in any case, they're published. Tell him we can't measure what the compliment of his joke government is, huh? They can't measure it. In any case, man, tell him that if they want to make constructive opposition, as they could at least make it possible for European foundations, which, as you know, are very important for us to be able to deploy some of the policies that we need to deploy these early years, so help us to... in short, and help the country, in short, to be co-cided and congested, huh? That from here we can surely know better what kind of projects, and not that they come..., come with the LOSSes, that in some of them we can agree with some of the costs that lie ahead, but it would be good if here we could put a little bit of their share, if they want to be this constructive opposition that you said before. Or, for example, man, we have to finish already with the joke of rollers– we have to finish with the joke of Rodalias. And, therefore, here I hope that, when it is necessary to stay, then we can work with the Deputy Terrades and, obviously, with the Government of the State this integral transfer of rolls that the citizens of Catalonia are calling for – asking for calls. So, I hope we find ourselves here. And, therefore, it will prove that you are not a joking government and are a constructive opposition, as you have said now. And, finally, listen to me, look, I have to recognize that... and so, in this sense, the task they have to make of opposition, today, with what we have approved, with the theme of català in school... I have to recognize that everyone here has made efforts, huh? I know you do, too. I therefore believe that this country, when it achieves great consensus, can pull forward. And with the Catalan theme I have to say that it's one of those country consensuss that we have to find if not all of us, almost all of us, huh? And I think that you are in that consensus is positive. And, in any case, I encourage them, obviously, to continue on this line. I think this is good for the country, it's good for Catalonia. And I also hope that in the other issues that I have already commented on – so, on the subject of roularies, on the subject of European foundations, on the subject of publicizing fiscal balances – so they are also as constructive as they have been on the subject of català, and, therefore, they are not a government of joke. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.179.0	Let us move on to the fourth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the situation of the university system, which the Parliamentary Group of VOX has presented. [[Question to the Government on the situation of the university system]] [[300-00172/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Manuel Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.180.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Mrs. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, very late. There is currently a division of competences between the State and the Generalitat in the field of university policy – this is obvious, we all know it. Specifically, Law 1/2003 on Universities of Catalonia explains the competences attributed to the Generalitat in accordance with Articles 15 and 9.7 of the Statute and the Organic Law 6/2001 on Universities. In this way, the Generalitat is directly responsible for the structural and economic situation of our universities. Unfortunately, the Catalan university is going through a worrying crisis based on the existence of serious structural deficiencies, which, if from the Department of Research i Universitats is no longer an urgent remedy, the future of our children and of our Catalan society will definitely be mortgaged. Thus, the weaknesses of the Catalan education system can be grouped into four blocks. The first: the precarious work of teachers, researchers and administrative and service staff at the universities of Catalonia threatens the sustainability of academic excellence and also the socio-economic well-being of thousands of people. The combination of low wages and temporaryity represents a breeding stock that can emerge in social frustration and in dismotivations that can end up having a very negative impact on the educational progress of university students. With data from 2019, the Observatory of the University System shows almost sixty_y_nine_per_cent of the temporality of the staff of the teaching staff, with an exaggerated and sustained growth of the associated faculty over time that already doubles, almost doubles, the Spanish average. The crazy growth of the associated teaching staff is due to several causes: the low replacement rate of permanent staff, the financial adversities of universities, the low cost of hiring associate teachers and also the lack of demand for accreditation for this type of non-qualified teacher. Secondly, the lack of funding and the cuts in the Generalitat of the university system have undermined the financial capacity of university public institutions and also the bodies associated with them. In 2019 the Catalan Association of Public Universities denounced the serious financial situation of universities and their impact on the future of Catalonia. Despite the lukewarm increases in budget allocations planned and implemented in recent years, the cuts initiated in 2009 and 2010 have not been reversed. In addition, it is necessary to balance the budget allocations of this GR for university research groups, which are in clear discrimination with regard to research centres near. Third: the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia has repeatedly denounced the remarkable differences in public prices of official university studies between the different autonomous communities, among which Catalonia..., those of Catalonia are the highest in all of Spain. These differences are an intolerable obstacle to the access of all Spaniards to higher education accessible on equal terms to all. Unfortunately, to this anomaly we must also add a series of deep dysfunctions that further condition the access and permanence of university students. Thus, for example, the increase in the price by credit of degree and master's degree in second registrations, and in successive registrations as well, is a real abuse, bearing in mind that the requirements necessary for the award of scholarships and the same rules of permanence of universities already penalize repetition. On the other hand, the policy of second degree fees at the same academic level is unjustifiable, since the abusive increase in the price of a second degree or a second master's degree is a measure contrary to the promotion of continuous and continuous training which can have such a great impact on a society which pretends to be progressive and excellent. Also, considering that a doctoral student is already producing academic benefits as well as researchers and teachers at the university where he is developing his doctoral thesis, the entire set of university fees derived from the program are very burdensome and disproportionate. For example, the management of the academic record, the annual guardianship, defence and reading fees of the doctoral thesis. More if it is possible to take into account the precarious salaries of students who enjoy the FPU, FPI, FI and APIF scholarships, which are around EUR 1 000 per month, salaries that directly affect the difficulty of students researchers to deal with issues as necessary as transport itself, public transport. Finally, fourth, fourth block: the serious situation of forced linguistic immersion, the policy of eradicating Spanish in the university community, ideological indoctrination and the bureaucratization of the Catalan university should be highlighted. [[Some applause.]] Academic excellence is not compatible with the uniforming claim, the ideological imposition and the unprotection of the free disposition of the university chair perpetrated by the Department of Research i Universitats de la Generalitat de Catalunya. I remind you that on 23 June 2021 the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia rejected the appeal of the University of Barcelona and condemned the University of Barcelona for violating its duty of neutrality and injuring the fundamental rights to ideological freedom and freedom of expression of pupils and teachers, as well as the right to education of the latter, when the Rector of the University of Barcelona approved a manifesto of support for the defendants and convicted of the coup d'état of 1 October. [[Some applause.]] On the other hand, you, Mrs Geis, suffer – I say this with all affection, without any acrid – a sort of selective, transient amnesia, as you constantly talk about equal opportunities and combating discrimination, but you do Swedish – or, as we would say here, to our home, fa l'orni – in order not to recognize the socio-linguistic reality of our region, which I remind you that more than half of Catalans are Spanish-speaking, marginalizing the Spanish-speaking students who are going to enter the university, preventing them from having the same opportunities as Catalan-speaking in the models of exams of the PAAU, as you were reminded by civil society and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia last year. You have also rigged a campaign of delations, of complaints to teachers who teach their subjects in Spanish, in charge of the private entity Platform for Language in October 2021, with the approval of the directors of the Catalan public universities, who, although in private recognize the totalitarian march of this action, are submissive to the voice of their master and do not dare to question anything that may displease the lady counselor, such as the imposition of eighty_per_cent of the classes in Catalan at the university. Then the Rectors complain – I tell you this because..., I have had the opportunity to meet them – about the damage caused, such as the decrease in the number of students in Catalan universities. Good. I ended up transferring a strong message to the entire university community, from the staff of administration and services to the most senior professor: if the Catalan university is maintained in high academic credit and prestige, it is not thanks to the Department of Research i Universitats de la Generalitat de Catalunya, it is despite the Department of Research i Universitats de la Generalitat de Catalunya. Because, no doubt, if that high level, that remarkable level is maintained, it is thanks to self-denial, sacrifice, professionalism, the vocation of thousands of workers in our university system, who, with precarious salaries, give one hundred per cent. Recognise, Mrs Geis, the unpayable work of these professionals and really solve the serious shortcomings they suffer; for their sake, for the good of the Catalan university and for the good of the whole of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.181.0	There's the word, then, the Research and University Advisor, Mrs Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.182.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs... MP Acosta, look, at the beginning, when you presented this inquiry, the truth is that I did reflect on whether I had heard you answer it or not, because you always defend that I should close the Parliament of Catalonia, that I should close the institutions of Catalonia, and put at risk, with their claims, the guarantee of rights and freedoms. But do you know what's going on? That we defend Parliament, we defend parliamentarianism and democracy. Therefore, in coherence with what I defend and think, therefore, we answer this question. There are two very clear ideas or two parts in this inquiry. The first is that the university is his freedom – and he will always be – and his knowledge. And second I'll explain it to you with the whole set of actions that we've been working on since the Research department, so we're exercising. The first is that I say and believe that democratic values are at risk. And we see what the situation is in Europe, and that also threatens academic freedom and university autonomy. And that's not just what I'm saying, that I'm a member of an independent government, but that the European University Association, which is an association that brings together more than 850 national universities and conferences of rectors from forty-nine European countries, has issued this generation a report that said "University without walls: a visit to 2030, and says that we must affirm and defend the civic role of universities, defend academic freedom and strengthen and protect university autonomy. Therefore, this is our position: to defend rights and freedoms, to defend this critical vision that universities can hold and, above all, to encourage critical students and socially compromised. The university is the main instrument of the country's knowledge, and therefore all those who attempt against the rights and fundamental freedoms are sure to find the university community defending them. But that is not what I am saying: freedom, culture, knowledge, Catalan language, progress and fundamental rights are inherent in Catalan universities, which have held a key role in the struggle for their defence. And I'm not saying it, they're saying it's the proper statues of every university in this country. And, in fact, at the entrance to the University of Barcelona, the oldest university in Catalonia, there is a plaque with a phrase that perfectly illustrates what I say: "The University of Barcelona, compromises with freedom, united with its history, with the national future of Catalonia, driving the values of citizenship, persecuted, like its members, for intolerance and dictatorships, and autonomously under the vigor of the Constitution and the State of Autonomy, proclaims the honor and glory of all those who fought for freedom, democracy and peace. Therefore, this is the compromise of Catalan universities with democracy, with rights and freedoms and with its function, of all people, to improve the progress of people living in Catalonia. You refer to "despite, you said, the action of the Department of Research and Universities. I don't like it, and I've never made a pleasurable speech. I am very aware that there are many carpets that need to be improved, but the one that we have made this first year of recovery from the Research and University Consulting has been increasing the assumption of the Research and University Department by 14 percent. This has meant an increase of forty-three per cent in research and university policies, which I think is important, because it allows us to prepare the country for the global challenge. We've pushed a drop in access with a new drop in university lecturers, both this year and the previous year. I think you should review the statement that Catalonia currently has the most cars, because you would see that a part of what you said is not in line with reality. In fact, we are moving from the price of 1,600_euros of the subjects to 1,100, trying, therefore, that the students can sort their university career according to their vocation and not whose economic capacity it is. We have increased to six hundred places the degree in Nursing, increasing them above all in the field of public service, public places, public universities that this country has. We have increased the number of places of the master's degree in university, that we have about 1,600 people who currently do the master's degree outside Catalonia in private universities, which is worth between eight and two thousand euros. And, therefore, we incorporate them into Catalonia because they learn and have the training to be a high school teacher in the university system. You won't like it, but we're making the català stronger. And this is a compromise of the university system of Catalonia, and make our contribution to this national pact for language, and therefore strengthen the Catalan language in the university system. And, listen, it's absolutely compatible with the internationalization of universities. In fact, two weeks ago at the Executive Board we approved the internationalization program with the incorporation of two specific and technical people to boost internationalization, who also do each of the vice-rectorate teams. We have the preliminary draft of the law, which I hope before July will be approved. You have also made reference to the SGR calls, in which we have increased the call more than 16_millions with a special concern, which I believe you, for the trajectory you have, therefore, in the field of humanities and social sciences, philosophy, culture... And, therefore, it happened, and these 16 million have increased. The Horitzó Group was just created, which is a group of researchers from this country and people who are compromised with private investment to establish what is the time in an independent Catalonia or in a Catalonia like today. Therefore, think big to think about which are the maximum scenes of the best of Catalonia's knowledge system. We have created the FITA, the Advanced Technology Investment Fund, a new instrument that between 2022 and 2026 will have more than €60_million for investment in technology transfer enterprises in the more technological and health fields. We have increased twenty-i-five_per_cent the endowment of the program of industrial doctorates, absolutely important if we want to increase the transfer of knowledge and we want to empower the industry. We have resolutely promoted the Valley of the Mediterranean of Science and Quantum Technologies to boost the R & D economy in this field of quantum technologies in Catalonia with the aim of turning our country into a world technological policy in quantum technology. And we have reinforced the ICREA programme by increasing its budget to 35 million euros more, doubling the offer of seats by 2022. And it's a measure, referring to what you said to the principle, that what it does is protect and regain talent, with this increase in places. I must say that in any of these measures there is the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, where there are the different commissions. And many of these projects have been approved unanimously and discussed by all teams in Catalan universities. Therefore, we have a national pact for the society of knowledge, a government pact, which we must therefore complete. I always say..., and I don't like to be complacent, because I recognize that you have many needs and that you need, this bet for the country's knowledge system, but what I don't have any doubt about is that knowledge and Catalan universities are completely compromised with rights and freedoms and democracy. And in the end, each of the citizens we train at the university must be a student who comes out and is critical, free and socially committed. And as he started it by saying that Catalonia and university society is his freedom and knowledge, I want to end with one of the quotes I made last week at the UNESCO World Conference on Higher Education, where I sorted out the phrase of the universal catalá Pau Casals that said freedom is not negotiable. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.183.0	Then, in the turn of the reply, has the word the deputy Manuel Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.184.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Madam Counsellor, for your comments on what I have put to you. Few things have answered me, about what I wanted to emphasize, but well, let's try to answer any of these answers of yours. First of all, yes, we are consistent. We want to close the Parliament, it is true, but respecting the legal order, the constitutional order. And, therefore, we do not skip the law, we are not above the law, we are not above court sentences, we respect them. And when we govern we will make the relevant reform that will succeed, then, close Parliament and autonomy, yes. [[Some applause.]] Secondly, a small point. Maybe I got it wrong, huh? , but the first university that was founded in Catalonia is not the University of Barcelona, is the University of Lleida, in 1300, by King Jaime II, of the Crown of Aragon. [[Some applause.]] Well, as for what you have commented on freedom in the quote of the universal Pau Casals – of course – I remind you that the framework of freedom, plurality, ideological neutrality and institutional politics is the ideal one for all members of the university community to carry out their scientific and intellectual work fully, without fear of institutional constraints and constraints that may tarnish their talent and creativity. In relation to the high public prices, you have commented that by the work and grace of the Department of Research i Universitats it has been achieved a reduction of thirty_y_one forty_per_cent in the prices of degree and master. Well, let's see, huh? We have to make all these points very clear. Firstly, thanks to a popular legislative initiative, thanks to civil society, this reduction has been achieved. And it took us three years to get this milestone to lower public prices. Secondly, since 2020, the General Conference of University Policy has forced – it has forced – a reduction in public prices, of degree prices, to all autonomous communities. So, the merit, who's owed it, huh? , let us not consider ourselves the creators of all the benefits. A little bit of self-criticism, or rather self-criticism..., and a lot of self-congratulation. And, therefore, with these provisions, of course, the difficulties and shortcomings of the university system in Catalonia cannot be corrected, or it is difficult to correct them, at least structurally speaking. As for the increases in endowments and funding of the SGRs, for example – you have mentioned this – man, the research centers of the universities, which are sixty_and_three_per_cent of the research groups of the entire research panorama of Catalonia – which are sixty_and_three_per_cent –, received in the forty_and_nine_per_cent of the funding through those of the SGRs, considering that, in addition, these research groups of the universities are the ones that carry out the most scientific activity: they publish more than seventeen_th thousand articles of the 35,000 that exist in the ROAD – the other twelve_th thousand come from the Cerca centers. In addition, in these budgets you continue to discriminate against universities. According to current budgets, 89_million_de_euros go to the Close Centers and 39_millions to university centers. Well, Catalan universities lead all rankings, lead the first positions of reputational rankings within Spanish universities. This is a reality, as I said earlier in another way. However, from a few years to this part, the percentage of students who choose Catalonia within Spain has not ceased to decrease. And it is not only because of the pandemic, that they have suffered it also in other universities in Spain and throughout the world. A total of four of the first ten Spanish universities – we're talking about a forty_per_cent – are Catalan, huh? However, although Spain is the country preferred by European students, only twenty-two_per_cent chooses Catalonia. Universities such as the Complutense of Madrid or Granada have twice as many Erasmus students as the Polytechnic of Catalonia or the Pompeu Fabra, far ahead of them in the rankings, by the way. Why? Man, it's not because quality scares students; it's because talent decides more and more where, when and how it wants to study and work, and it does so where it finds a pleasant, fun, tolerant, demanding environment with opportunities for the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.185.0	She's got the word Gemma Geis again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.186.0	To answer the four blocks that you gave to your first intervention, in relation to job insecurity a couple of weeks ago we gathered, holding a seminar, with all the universities to make a diagnosis of what this situation is. For you, as you have already mentioned – it seems – in your first intervention, there is an important element, that is the repositioning rate, that this repositioning rate does not depend on us. If we took it from ourselves, obviously we've already taken measures, but it's a repositioning fee that they charge to the Spanish government. Second, you're referring to this lack of funding. The funding of universities has increased by 21_million; the Research Project has increased to EUR 35_million; the PIU has increased; the call for the SGRs has increased, so if you want, with great pleasure, I will not get the report, because it seems to me that the last SGRs assign data to the research groups of universities, to the Search Centers. And, in addition, I grow up to and all that you're wrong to contradict or counter the universities with the Search Centers, because precisely what the universities and the Search Centers are working with is with a cooperation agreement and strengthening the links. So it seems to me that it goes, to put it mildly, with some tendency... At the law of science, we are also working with ideas to improve this policy of precariousness, because I openly defend those people who are structural in search groups and in search groups, who must therefore have decent working conditions. And, therefore, in this sense, there is no type of problem. And we're working on the law of science. And as you were talking about the downfall of the university priests, so, well, each one has his trajectory, before he entered the Parliament of Catalonia..., and who defended when she was vice-rector, at which rectorate teams she was, and, therefore, it's a policy with which I feel absolutely comfortable, isn't it? Moreover, this councillor, when she was a spokesman, was from whom she defended the processing of the ILP in the Parliament by Junts for Catalonia at the Board of Spokesmen. Therefore, all personal coherence, with this policy. And we have to keep working at the lower level of university priests. And our full route is not the one that marks the Council of Universities, but that our full route is the one that marks the national pact for the society of knowledge, that what we establish is the price to the credit of dissot_euros. Now the groups themselves, let's say... or experimentation is lower. This price of disset is already there, and what we've done is to bring it down to the group where experimentation was higher, these divided by euros per credit, roughly, but we have to keep going down. And what we want, too, is to start encouraging wage scholarships, huh? We want to start working with salary scholarships as the Policy of the Department of Research and Universities. When you were talking about bureaucracy... absolutely agreeable. In fact, what I would like in an independent country is to have the basis of the public contract law and the basis of Article 149.1.18 of the basis of the rule of the common administrative procedure, because surely if we have the capacity to make a law of own contract, a law of absolutely own procedures, then we would greatly simplify the bureaucracy, which we do not have at present, because you are the first to challenge it in the Constitutional Court. Two. At the law of science, we will push for measures in the mark of the skills we have to facilitate..., and to suppress everything that is bureaucracy. And, in fact, in this SGR was one of the main measures, trying to simplify the administrative procedure. But I repeat it, the day we follow a good state and have absolutely all the competitions we will simplify the administrative procedure, like other countries of the European Union, and we will also be able to simplify the public contract following the Community directives. And we'll have the maximum capacity, too, to establish contract models for the investigator, which we can't do right now because we don't have the skills. This is why we are independent, to eliminate bureaucracy, to facilitate retention of talent and to simplify administrative procedures. And, finally, you said..., persecution and I don't know what adverbs or adjectives respect linguistic rights. Not just the Language Platform, but the Research and Universities Department has approved, in the Language Policy Commission we quarterly have, information respecting which violations of linguistic rights are produced in Catalan universities. Why, do you know how many cases of violations of students' linguistic rights have changed their language to a classroom in the castle? Zero. So, dice, rigour and serious work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.187.0	Thank you very much. [[Government inquiry into menstrual rights]] [[300-00173/13]] Let's move on to the fifth point of the order of the day, the question to the government about menstrual rights, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.188.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, as the title of the inquiry that we have already announced, counsel, we come to talk about menstrual equity because people, mostly women, sometimes have to sort between menstrual products and other products of primary need as food can be. This, which is a data that may surprise us, that there are people who have to sort between eating or having menstrual hygiene products, is a data that only comes out if we apply research with a gender perspective. Now we're talking about universities, right? And, therefore, if we don't have data, these public policies can most likely end up with threats or "denodates" on the part of populisms. That's why we come to talk about menstrual equity with hand-to-hand, isn't it? And speaking of these many percent, it seems to me that it's a twenty-two percent, that of people who have to sort between menstrual products and foods, for example. Let's talk about menstrual rights. Historically, it was a private matter. They've always told us that those questions as sexuality can be, as can be our bodies, mostly questions that they have to do with women, they're personal, they're individual, and, therefore, they're stuck on the street, just like the women were, and, therefore, everything that happened between the domestic environment didn't have to get out of it, right? Therefore, all the rights associated with people living in the private sphere were invisible rights. And, therefore, what they achieved was to strip them of their gifts to make them invisible, and, therefore, also to make the rights they associated with them invisible. When they say that they are personal fears, that they are private fears, and they tell us many times, what they really want is to depolitize, because, as long as you depolitize a fight or a few rights or claims, automatically little women to be able to lose, ridicule, childish... I would like to remember when we had a debate about the toilets of Parliament. [[remorse of the voice]] , which may seem like a debate that does not matter to anyone – the extreme right already blows... Obviously, every time we talk about issues that they have to see with rights and claims that are invisible to the public sphere, we automatically have this reaction, right? That's why, as far as the bodies are depoliticized, they're nonexistent. As I said, all the bodily, sexual or reproductive processes of women and people in the LGTBI collection have been historically displaced, haven't they? , with all the different rapes that also intersect with people in the LGTBI collection and with women. And, therefore, they become taboos and do not occupy any space in the public sphere. One of the great taboos, even though it doesn't seem to us, because many of us live with it much of our life, is menstruation, which has never been a political debate at the institution. I notice "the institution because in feminist spaces, obviously, our bodies, our bodily processes, and, therefore, menstruation..., has always been a topic of debate and a subject to be confronted with this public sphere that wanted us, therefore, clean and with these announcements of understanding that the rule, therefore, was a bad thing. As I said, if it is not spoken of, it does not exist; if it does not exist, we can hardly guarantee rights. I'm going back to Parliament's sinks, aren't I? How can we ridicule, how can we need and invisibly question that... more so, from politics, from conservativeisms, they always end up saying that the left forgets the material rights; it turns out that many of these questions have much to do with the material rights. Making public policies about menstrual equity was a compromise from the first day. Remember... in President Aragones's investiture debate he already spoke concretely of measures that they had to deal with menstrual equity, and automatically, as I said, this reaction of the usual, let's say, right? That's ridiculous. Placing these invisible themes on the public agenda was the first step. It was important that from the first day we could talk about menstrual equity, and, in fact, on the very days before the Igualtath Commission we could talk about studies, as I said, about data; about how menstruation, for example, during the pandemic of the covid had alterations in many of the women and people who menstruate. Why? So why, obviously, all these things..., all this research, if it's not with a general perspective, hide data that doesn't allow us, then, to make public policies that go to correct all these dynamics with these biaxes. Feminist policies require generous governments, especially in coalition. Menstrual equity cannot be guaranteed without working from different departments, and therefore must work with cooperation and not so much with hierarchy. But working without hierarchies does not mean that there is no leadership. In fact, that's why it was important that there be a department, a council of Equality and Feminisms, because, obviously, without this leadership, that I don't mean, I insist, hierarchy..., without this leadership many of these issues are always the small German of all policies, and the prospect of genera jumps into the air. Therefore, many of these questions must be led by Equality and Feminisms, but it must be done in cooperation with other departments, and in quote four: Education, to have a self-knowledge of our body, and, therefore, to politicize our bodies, our bodily processes already from school; from Salvation, because it is obvious that the search, as I say, and many malalties that they have seen with things that have been on the margins, without search, without a gender perspective, did not exist, such as, for example, the endometriosis, which was underdiagnosed, like so many other feministic malalities; I quote also Climate Action, because obviously I do not care how I can ferment feminist policies from the Government of the Generality if I did not see it centrally in the eyes that were not in the eyes of the central? The impact we have on our policies, and therefore I do not think of the Feminisms as we are not only talking about equality and the cure between the equals, about respect, but also about taking care of the surroundings, and, therefore, about the petjade that we leave on earth, on the planet, right? and, therefore, as well, with these menstrual equity policies, we tend to make proposals for questions that were also invisible, such as menstrual hygiene products, that there is only one, but historically we also wanted to expand this space of action. Therefore, these days, which, moreover, in the public debate, we are also talking about labor rights and that we are again invisibly, ridiculously, less about the questions they have to do with menstruation and with the things that have remained on the margins, we are also talking, right? – since the Congress was being talked about – the right to have a low job for incapacitating menstruations. It turns out that this, from the outset, generates mistrust, not as lumbalgia or having a headache, that no one poses it in question, but that the rights that they have to see with the bones that menstruate at once is a question that alters much, that generates this loss, this doubt, isn't it? , about the person who wants to sort this way. And I'd like to remind you that rights, exactly like euthanasia, or just like avarice, are not mandatory. And if you have menstrual pains but they love capitalism and do not want to stop and want to go to work, they are invited to do so, all people who want to do so; but those who do not menstruate, who do not know what it means to have a menstrual pain, please, to get rid of all this debate to bring it down to a minimum. Because in these debates, which are low, we – and when we say about feminists – pedagogy, everything. We'll explain it as many times as anyone else, but we don't have time to recreate ourselves - there, to get into these star debates and at such a low level, as I said, because we've come to make our rights visible, which is the job ahead of the guarantee. And in this sense, Counselor, we know that you have campaigned at the Institute the past few days, as I said, not just with one of the menstrual products, right? That we were more used to it, but we're talking about menstrual cups, we're talking about reusable covers, we're talking about menstrual shoes, and so on, this campaign framed in the strategy that you've designed, about sexual and reproductive rights. And so, in this sense, we would like to ask you who are those policies that President Aragonès already announced in the investiture debate, in his first speeches as President, which started pointing to where we were going, right? But who are the policies that you lead in company with the rest of the counselors and counselors who have something to say, and who are these concrete actions and this look to generate menstrual equity. That, as I said, it does not seem to me that there is a policy that goes further than the problem of the material rights of many of us, and that there is no woman or person in Catalonia who has to sort between menstrual products or foods. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.189.0	Then, the word has the Counsellor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.190.0	Very nice late. Thank you, Congresswoman. Obviously, as you stressed, the guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights forms part of the feminist transformation. It would be impossible for it not to be so, and therefore this government has undertaken to push them forward. And that means going deeper into recognized rights until now as well as guaranteeing us. And here's this national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights that we approved with the government plan and that has different dimensions. The right to menstrual equity is one of the first that has been put on the march, even though we have not seen some, such as the right to territorial equity in access to abortion, at the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. This right to menstrual equity has two main components: of a band, we are speaking, as I pointed out, of this necessary education about the right to know the menstrual period, to break the taboos, the stigmas, to stop normalizing the pain of the rule; but also the equal access to menstrual products to fight the poor menstrual period, and, moreover, some menstrual products that are reusable, because, in the end and in the end, these are the only ones that are so economically sustainable as in the medium. Since the Department of Equality and Feminism we have designed a plan of menstrual equity that we have begun to deploy this month with the action "My rule, my rules, which I will explain at the length of the intervention why..., will be very well understood why this name is. And it is an example, as pointed out, also, of this cross-cutting work in feminist policies in the case of the Government: an action that drives and coordinates the Department of Equality and Feminisms, but in which, in this case, three more departments participate: Climate Action, Education and Health. How do we start this action of my rule, my rules? Implementing it in two phases. This month they saw how we started in twenty-and-four educational centres, centres that are distributed across the territory – new to Barcelona, five to Girona, three to Tarragona, two to Central Catalonia, also two to Penedès, one to Lleida, one to Upper Pirineu and one to Ebre Lands – but the next school year we arrive at the conjunction of schools in Catalonia. And how have we selected these centers? So the main selection criterion is that you have already implemented the Coeduca't program and that you have a planned job with drivers or with the ASSIRs, with units of attention to sexual and reproductive health of primary care linked to the Health and School program, so that they already had this first step and allowed us to make this assessment after the first phase. In this first phase, who are we getting to? So to more than 2,500 ESO students, third-grade, or further, third-grade ESO students, both girls and boys, for what it does to menstrual education, for what it does to this training session of knowledge about the property, a training given to a driver to accompany young people in this knowledge and in this taboo breakup. In fact, a teaching unit of the Coeduca't program on menstrual education has been created, and it is working with the Department of Education because in the new decree sex education, enclosing the menstrual education, is contained curriculum. But we're not just having this menstrual education session, but we're also handing out this menstrual kit of products that you mentioned. That's the story; I didn't take the products in themselves, but here they can find, so, the absorbent socks, the cloth pack, the menstrual cup and the sterilizer so they can clean the cup. The point is that all people we menstruate can choose the product with which they feel more comfortable, to use it habitually, to combine it along the same cycle, while taking knowledge of what is the ecological impact of the products of a used_sol. This intervention is accompanied by other actions that claim to have a Community impact, to have a much larger scope, which is the creation of a specific web: the rules. How much. There, if they enter, they will be able to see the different products here, information about how to use them, their benefits, and a campaign for social and communication networks. Why guarantee menstrual equity is a feminist policy? And here we came up with this idea, from the feminist premise of "personally it's political, because it's about the data of inequality, discrimination, this environmental impact that has been neglected by the fact of considering the rule as a private issue. And these data that I will present to you as brushed, so they are from the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, the Rezero Association and the Institute of Research in Primary Care Jordi Gol and Gorina. Poor menstrual woman. There is, it's undeniable. We have a lot of data that they believe: the twenty-two percent of women, as you pointed out, have had economic difficulties in acquiring menstrual products at some point in their lives or have not been able to sort out the product of their choice. If we compare how much we spend on the products of a used_sol– the included and the buffers of a used_sol– respect what we would spend if we used, for example, the menstrual cup, the difference is of dissected time: from 2,500 euros in midjana, at the length of the fertile life, to 144_euros. So we're talking about an important stalwart. Why do we need to break all these taboos and stigmas? So the quests tell us that more than half the women, fifty-night_per_cent, have not received enough menstrual education or have been very partial before the first menstrual period. That makes myths and taboos last. But it's that, plus, we follow sometimes, both ourselves and the younger generations, we have to move on, don't we? The menstrual products, if he came to us like this, suddenly, because he's not a seer. And, in the case of school spaces, because the guys don't joke, because the guys don't humiliate a fact as normal as it is to keep the rule once a month. So, guys also need to know menstruation with naturality, because half the people around them are menstruating, it's as simple as that. Stop normalizing also the rule pain, because if normalization may be failing to detect cases of endometriosis that affect between a god and a fifteen_per_cent of the women. And we also need to take seriously the risks to the health of the menstrual products of a use, especially non-organic ones, for the alterations in the vaginal flora that they can produce, skin reactions caused by the chemical products that carry these products, so as not to talk about the syndrome of the toxin. And, obviously, we are aware of the environmental impact of the products of a sun, because we have the responsibility to take care of the planet the same time we learn to take better care of our body. In order to put some data in context, the quota is the main component of the buffers, and it requires a great deal of water, pesticides and fertilizers for its production, especially those that are not organic, and included them are girls of synthetic fibres derived from oil, and the embolcalls of them understood, obviously, are also made of plastic. So alone in Catalonia is a yearly generation of new non-reusable products, equivalent to 750 million menstrual products of a used_sol. At the length of a fertile life, of these forty years, we can manage to generate approximately one hundred and forty kilos of residuals, which are about 4.5 kilos a year per woman or menstruating person. With usable money, instead of these hundred and forty pounds, we would generate 2,4. If we use the menstrual cup, which weighs a little less than five-grams, they set fifty-grams. Therefore, the ecological impact is important. And that's why we say that the rule is political, and that's why we need a feminist public policy that shakes up these current rules. Here's my rule, my rules, and here's a feminist public policy that shows that feminist transformation, social transformation and green transformation are indestriable, that go together. As I said at the beginning, this is the first of the actions of the menstrual equity plan, but there are no more, addresses to other collections and backgrounds. Campaigns will be conducted to promote reusable menstrual products; menstrual education campaigns will be conducted at the conjunction of the population, including material specifically directed to families or also to the municipality, so that in the area of their skills they can deploy actions. Evidently, actions directed to the collection of women who are in a situation of more economic vulnerability; for example, in the next few months we will distribute these products in the residential resources of the network of attention to masculinist rapes. And we will continue to demand from the Spanish Government super-reduced VAT on non-reusable menstrual products and zero-per-cent VAT on sustainable products, because there is no excuse for not eliminating this tax either, because the European directive already allows it and these products must be considered essential basic benefits. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.191.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the balance of feminist policies of the Department of Equality and Feminism]] [[300-00174/13]] Let us turn to the sixth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the balance of feminist policies of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, which the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can present. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... I suppose we're all doing this year's balance exercise, aren't we? In the case of the Council of Equality and Feminisms, moreover, it is the balance of the creation, for the first time, of a Council of Equality and Feminisms. When this government started and this new council moved on, we congratulated the idea. We defend that there must be a council of Equality and Feminisms. In fact, we also had our programme and it was one of our proposals for this legislature. And we talked about the importance that the policies of equality and feminism had to focus on, but also about the role that this council should have for the transversalization of these policies to the whole government. I believe that it could, in some way, be said, without much doubt, that the Catalan Institute of Donations had not just functioned and took on the cross-cutting role that the law must play. But we also talked about the great challenge that I would assume to have this counseling, to have a professional team that has to respond to these expectations, and that all this did not go along with the necessary resources. Now we want to talk about this first year's scale. We will focus only on the policies of the area of feminisms. We know that your advice also has equality and you also have the themes to gather, for example, but we think the theme has enough size as to talk about this and talk about all these other themes another day. And recognize her the complexity she also had in this first year, with the complexity attached to the war in Ukraine. But we are concerned – and we want to move it today – that, after a year, the balance of the expectations generated and the results and concrete actions is not much favorable. We consider that, despite the fact that we wanted to wait this year, that despite the fact that we believe that, in fact, the inn on the way to a council requires a time to stand in the way, to provide the resources and equipment needed..., we believe that after one year it should have been possible to do much more than it has been done. We think there's a good story, we think there's a good speech. Before it's said, it's very important to talk about it, it's very important to make it visible, it's very important to make a feminist report, but it's also true that, as the same president said at today's government session, the speech is holding up. And we think that a little thing that happens with the Feminisms council is this, that the speech itself is holding up a lot, but it doesn't hold up. And concrete facts and concrete policies are not following the rhythm that they should follow, because, really, after a year, and above all trying and thinking already about the finalization of the presupposing year, which would be 2022..., the council of Equality and Feminisms will have a level of execution and realization of policies that actually begin to respond to the expectations that have been generated about this. We already said when the assumptions were approved. We believe that the assumptions of equality and feminism, and as much as these assumptions were approved after an agreement with us... the assumptions were not good. We... when we came in, there was no way to increase the department's presuppositional relief. They weren't enough assumptions, so much so that they were raised in a noranta_per_cent. It increased, of course, because the council did not exist before, but there was a collection of money coming from Social Rights and coming from the Presidency and coming from other councils. The assumptions aren't enough. And it is that, in addition, we believe that the Government has not provided itself with the human, technical and necessary resources to support the advice as it must be by actually being able to implement all these policies, to keep the machinery and operation with the resources managed, legal and technical to execute the premise and to implement all these policies that you have as against. In the same balance that has been presented, so... a generous balance, because it's that self-rated is a little what it has, that usually a has tends to be generous, when self-rated. And, still, it's from the axis of transformations that the least execution has, which is a twenty-yes_per_cent. That's right, that's fine, for the first year it's fine, but it's all the less. We believe... more than that, we saw it yesterday, didn't we? , that of the measures highlighted by the President in his presentation– in this case, Vice President Puigneró –..., many of which he was talking about, therefore – like the forty_per_cent reserve of Mossos or the decree for victims of vicarious violence –..., most of which were not supposed to be a budgetary expense. They are necessary measures, no one says no, but there is no way that it can be highlighted in budgetary expenditure. And the President, one of the great twelve changes, which is the program of the TimexCures, highlighted the most, is with the resources of the state pact..., ai – sorry – of the program Council of the State. Therefore, we continue to believe that there is a lack of resources and capacity to execute, and to land policies from a consultancy that we believe is now, basically, making a lot of speeches. Before we heard him talk about the menstrual poor proposal and how to fight the menstrual poor and the rule, our rules, that we think it's an interesting initiative, that it's an initiative that's just concrete, but it's an initiative that this year up a few people, a few places, that the next year is supposed to come up with more places, and we hope that this will continue. And, basically, we think it's the only big measure that his department can now expose how it's been able to get different coordinated departments to work out and land. But speaking of the policies of your own department in male-based rapes, you will advise, you know that we have been very ill, that we are very ill and that we have not deployed 5/2008 and, moreover, approving the reform of 5/2008 when one of the things that is detected in the assessment reports of the law on the eradication of male-based rapes is that it had not been developed because the necessary resources had not been put in place. You know we came from a long time ago. I'm not going to ask you that in a year of the Women's Councillor I end up with male violence. It is obvious that I will not ask you either that I end up with the murders for male violence, but I would certainly like to ask you if you believe that there is a before and after that there is in the way of this advice, with all the expectations and needs identified there were. Exactly how did they realize and terrorize the fact that there is a council of Equality and Feminism in the situation of attention to victims of male violence? Because we know that an increase in staff has been announced to the specialist intervention services, but we also know that this increase in staff has not yet materialized, and that the month of October has been announced and this month is almost June and has not yet happened. We know, too, that some of the concerts were renewed with the entities that have the delegated performance of the male violence services, and that they were put down. We know that entities continue to paint a precariousness in people who tend to the victims that people who are working there are carrying out exhaustion, demotivation and being in a situation of maximum tension. This hasn't been reinforced. We know that they have put in place a measure to deal with this exhaustion that there is an intensive day in July, which is very good for the workers of the network, but..., what will happen with the attention to victims? Will this intensive day also imply a reduction in the attention to women or will it cover with external reinforcements to compensate for this reduction and this intensive day? It's very concrete things. We also know that there have been entities that have spent months not charging bills, months advancing resources, because the department did not have the capacity to transfer the necessary resources for services that are providing entities through grants. This is what causes the precariousness of entities, and entities to be closed. And we didn't see the announcement recently, and we saw what happened with Tamaia. So... what's your department done, now as it is, to solve it? Because what's on top of us is that the situation of attention to victims of male violence in the day-to-day... that hasn't changed. We would also like to ask him what relationship he has had with the Social Rights Council and with the Secretary of Habitatge to ensure housing for women victims of male violence, who also know that this is one of the problems we face, because they spend months and months in housing that should be of emergency because he has not been able to give them a housing with which to get out of the situation of violence and start a life of repair and recovery from their lives. We'd like to know what it is that he's been able to talk to and agree with the Department of Social Rights because that can be it. We also know that you agree, the program contracts with the assemblies, right? For the management of SIADs, among other things, they are not speeding up, they are not making themselves. In fact, we also know, and we are up on the side of some joints, that they are opting more quickly for the line of the transfer and the grant than for renewing the program contracts, because the council wants to have as much control what the joints do and that they justify what they will do with the money they put in, which can have a feeling, if not because it is also time against the autonomy of the joints, it prevents them from planning their own services, because they must be waiting every year for a subsidy that, moreover, sometimes up when the year is almost over. That is to say, we would have a big problem if 2022 ended with a council of Igualt and Feminisms that did not execute its premise. We would have a hard problem... not just you as the government, we would have all the feminist movement, which we have defended the need to have a council like this. And that means that you need the government to believe that a councillor of Equality and Feminism is going to have concrete policies and to create all the policies of the government. The other time we had a problem with the question to the Health Counselor, for example – and then, in the second intervention, I'll go into more detail. The Health Counselor made it clear that the right to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is the competence of the Health Department. He also had an intervention... when we asked him about the pharmacological aneurysm he said that it's that doctors are the ones who know about it and what went best for women. I'd like to know what their department thinks of this, if a woman really doesn't have to choose that from the new week and up to the fourteenth prefers a surgical abortion and not a pharmacology, because that's what Councilman Argimon came to say, that Lleida had been having pharmacological abortions until the fourteenth week because it was the best for women, because it was less invasive. Maybe the woman has to decide with all the information she has, for example. Or why we have years and years of waiting for breast reconstructions, which we have also seen the psychological impact it has on the women who are waiting years to have a breast reconstruction after having suffered a pit cancer. We'd like to know what his department is working on with the Health Council to put it right. And I'll follow the second part. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.193.0	Thank you very much. Then, the word has the Counsellor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.194.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, we would focus..., had prepared the answer with the Secretary of Feminisms and the Secretary of Equality, because when we understand feminist policies at these times..., it has all this coverage. I've pointed it out all at once, at the turn of the line, to be able to answer the questions that I haven't answered yet. It was an intense year, this first year of life of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, because the job was threefold, as you also pointed out: to build a new structure at the same time that we promoted own actions and at the same time that we aligned or sought this alignment of the entire government with the feminist transformation. And this job isn't sequential, it's all here, because we don't want to lose a minute to improve people's lives. And we have to do these three things while facing a humane crisis stemming from the war in Ukraine. And the process of creating a department doesn't go beyond one day for another. I know you're all aware, but maybe you should see what that means, too, right? in the day-to-day, this endowment of human and economic resources that can only be partial, of a band, until there is no new presupposition – and here, therefore, to thank the support that the parliamentary group of commons provided because it is possible to have this presupposition of exercise 2022 – but then there are things that are chained together. The new staff that can be hired when the assumptions are in place also gradually, and that's what makes the machine run. That's to say, a department muscle is a year-and-a-half job, and that's what they've seen with other recent examples of counseling creation, like it could be the one from Exteriors a year ago. It takes a longer time to get all the muscle counseling. Also to be able to have key policy instruments of any department, such as the local funding system, which in this case we are about to close the program contract. It does not change in absolute...; on the contrary, it greatly increases the amount that is destined for municipal and regional policies in the matter of equality and feminism. And the financing system, in any case, has as its objective to agile; it is not a control will, because the function would seem force. And the change will be profound, because what we are doing is expanding, strengthening and ensuring the stability of the technical staff linked to SIADs – the information and women's services – to the comprehensive LGTBI service and also to the first-time service. What have we done, like own actions? What do we want to highlight? So it's the first time that the government acts to guarantee the right to cures, the right to menstrual equity, the right to live free of aesthetic pressure or the right to reparation before male, LGBTI-fobic, and other hate crimes. In the last few months we have deployed the TempsxCures program rau of the country, yes; go to the co-responsible plan's background. They are taxes that go and come back, that is, they are money that has also happened here, with more than 250 services of cures to less than seven years in the municipalities and county councils, still new creation or taking advantage of existing ones, which extend their coverage. It is about 400,000 hours of care to free families from time to time, and therefore, we talk above all about women, because they can also take care of themselves, find time for social participation or reconcile work life more easily. The action«My rule, my rules, that..., how I just explained, this part, say, the advance. As I said, the right to menstrual equity is one of the lines of action of the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights. And you mentioned the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy, and it is clear that since the month of May, when the new government entered, there has been an important adventure, becoming accessible to surgical aneurysm both in Central Catalonia and in the Lands of the Era and Lleida, and in short it will also be in the High Pyrenees and the Aran. And whose competence is it? So it's obvious that the Health Department has centers and professionals, but cross-cutting implies that we are different departments working on a common project. And in this national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights, which presides over Equality and Feminisms, the vice-presidency has it the Health Department, but there are up to seven more departments, since we work together inside the government. We are also developing the plan to combat the aesthetic pressure, because there are no more unreal canons of beauty that make us live with this permanent dissatisfaction with our body, and because, as we say, we come to deploy the laws of equality as much as possible, and discrimination by physical appearance is one of the axes that reverses Law 19/2020. And here we haven't lost a minute to deploy it, 19/20, Dec. We have set aside the protection and promotion body of equal treatment and non-discrimination, and, as of this month's activation of the complaint form and victim service, we have received thirty-eight complaints. More than eight hundred employees and public employees have been trained in Law 19/20 and also more than two hundred persons in the field of public administration in the field of anti-racism. Under the umbrella also of Law 19/20 and Law 11/2014, of the rights of LGBTI people, we have approved a government agreement to include the identity of non binary genera and all family diversity in the administered forms. We have created a graduate of LGTBI policies to public management, and just a week ago we presented two micro-management courses of LGTBI diversity to companies, because workplaces must also be a secure space. And some of these structural inequality axes needed more attention from the institutions. This is why we are working on two pre-drafts of the law: the law against racism in all its forms and expressions, including institutional racism, and the full law of recognition of the right to identity and expression of gender, which would be the Catalan trans law. For what it does to the deployment of the Law 17/2020, in the summer we will present the new March Protocol that must guide the approach of the masclistic rapes on behalf of all the public powers. But it's that, while we've been working on different sectoral protocols that would also fall under this brand protocol and that would have to be updated. We have also been generating the indicators of due diligence, because, as we will know if we are advancing in the eradication of institutional violence if the professional or any actor or public power does not jump alarms, right? Can't I.D. who's serious about praxis? Otherwise, what's that good practice that's diligent and non-revictimizing? We're also reinforcing the specialized network. What we announced in October was all the detection we had made and the compromise to be able to strengthen it. In October it was obvious that we could not materialize it, because we did not have assumptions, and these assumptions... as I say, five months ago we had the assumption, and what we have, therefore, is this identification of the resources that can be strengthened with the most professional, with the most hours of attention, with services more adapted to the needs of women and with a better care, too, of the same professionals. And because we understand that a closer follow-up to women as well as around them forms part of the right to repair, we have activated more often than ever the SIC – the crisis intervention service – and we are also changing the 900's parameters so that it is not just a phone call, but a phone call. And, as I said, and we've already explained other times, the follow-up we've also done in cases of feminicides in the family environment, charging us with the burial or repatriation and the transport of the body, as we have done with assaults for hate crimes with medical interventions that are not covered in the health bag. To finish the summary of the most outstanding actions, therefore, this leadership and coordination of the government's response to the crisis in Ukraine, to the humanitarian crisis provoked by the war in Ukraine, without being hard on the part of the State of European foundations to assist Ukrainian refugees. We have said, I said it very strongly last week: the State has resigned from the attention to which it is not part of the State refugee programme, when in Catalonia seventy-two per cent of refugees have been taken by families of the Ukrainian community itself. And in this case, what we've done since the generality is to put ourselves next to people, and people are in the municipality. Therefore, we have reinforced the services of the local authorities, the services of information and attention to women, as the majority of displaced adults are women. We've activated a human trafficking detection service. And we have set aside a service of cures and leave for smaller stays in hotels, or also in the municipalities where there is a larger volume of refugees through this extension of the TimexCures program. But, finally, this alignment also of the entire government in the feminist transformation. You said before that the Català de les Dones Institute was not an instrument that ended up working to make this cross-cutting. So here we are: if we compare the data from the first quarter of the 21st with the first quarter of the 22nd, we have gone from twenty-and-nine reports solicited for the other departments to eighty-nine, more than triple. We are ensuring that all pre-projects of law incorporate the perspective of intersectoral genera when they emerge from government. For the first time there is an effective, undisputed coordination in the area of masculinist rapes, because we are working with the set of departments the different sectoral protocols. We are reviewing all the anti-assetting protocols, both that of the Administration and that of some departments that own them, such as the plan of schools free of violence, such as this protocol of feminicides to articulate a diligent response between SEMs, police units, the specialized network, the DGAIA and the volume of actions codified with other departments, where accompanying it is enormous. Then, on the next turn, we can talk more about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.195.0	Then again, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.196.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, too, for the answer. It is true that equality policies are feminists, as all government policies should be, but we only want to focus on one area because we believe that the issue is one for these two minutes and these five more, because if we want to get into what we are doing with our advice on LGTBI policies, we think we would need another question, and if we wanted to do what we are doing with immigration and home affairs, we would need another question. So, anyway, what we're looking at is, like, specialising in a little bit. I understand that you wanted to make a more global, balance-of-the-art response, but I do want to focus a little on what was the goal for us, like at least this question. It's true that one consultancy is not created overnight, and it's true that it's difficult to move resources, and it's true that bureaucratic passages can be very complicated, but it's also true that when it's wanted, it can be more and it can be faster. And this is where we believe that there was no willingness in the Government of the Government of Catalonia to give its advice the resources that it really needs to be able to deploy from the beginning. It's true that there was no presupposition until the generation of 2022, and, I'm telling you, some presuppositions that aren't especially good for your counseling, it's not the counseling that I can get the most out of these presuppositions. As a matter of fact, we, when we had to explain the agreement of assumptions... it was one of the issues where at least I felt more compromised, because I didn't know much about what to sell, honestly. Why? Because they collect money that had been executed for other departments before, they join them all, but at the time of truth they do not have enough resources to make this change in which they set the feminist policies of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. And I think it's something that you can also recognize, that you would surely have liked to have more resources; you would surely have liked it that the immigration assumption is not frozen, because, besides, it's in the immigration assumption where you also see the colliding assumption. With what came with the war in Ukraine, surely his department would also have wanted to have more resources for this. Therefore, I think it is a little honesty and necessary to recognize that the presupposition bet was not what it really needed to be to give its advice the power it had to have as one of the great axes of transformation of this government. Then, there is the whole cross-cutting part, which you have explained many of the things and the coordination spaces that you have with other departments; and I'm sure you have, but at the time of truth we don't think that it's... that these things are actually being concrete. It's that you talked about the Coeduca program before. The Coeduca't program is a program that once it's out, that I don't know if they have to be six, seven years, to the schools basically depend on the good willingness of the management teams and the teachers to step up. I know that I always... well, I like to talk a lot about my daughter, because I am learning a lot of feminist policies through the growth of my daughter. My daughter is now eleven years old, almost twelve years old, she is in the final six months of primary school, and last week they had, for the first time, a sex-affective education course with Sida Studi, a two-hour workshop, which they have another second session this week, paid for the association of school families. Or else, he had to pay for the school family association, because, if not, there was no such thing at his school. Because, besides, I'm sure... the docs and docs recognize that they're not ready to do it. Because the Coeduca't program can't be a web page with modules and files, it must be something else, there has to be this curriculum presentation. Because now we're also talking about poor menstrual issues and what you said about how to promote menstrual equity. But what we find is that there are many children, and obviously many children, that when they reach third of the ESO the first time they hear about the full size and complexity of the menstruation will be when they give it to them, because throughout their education, more than one module, a couple of sessions in the study of the human body, they have not talked about sexual and reproductive rights. Therefore, there is much work to be done in this real transversalization. And in the themes of salvation I would like to insist more, because the strategy of sexual and reproductive rights..., what we are told by entities is that there has been no participatory process with entities specialising in sexual and reproductive rights. I'm not talking about doctors or nurses or health personnel, which is the answer that Councillor Argimon gave me at the time. Therefore, counsel, I believe..., and this is what we would try to do to the young man, and we understand that you can certainly share much of what we propose. What we really want to strengthen and prove is that its Government, the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, is the need for a Council of Equality and Feminisms, and the endowment of resources and the necessary capacity to make this transversalization and to improve the lives of women in Catalonia. Because right now we're worried that this isn't the way it is. And I'm telling you this: in September 2022, with the level of execution, we'll have a good assessment that goes a little further than the self-assessment that's done by our own government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.197.0	The word "Tània Verge" has it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.198.0	Different questions: transversality, as you know, is never easy, it's complex, but what makes the difference is whether it's there or not. And, as I said, we're working with different departments a lot of projects, and sometimes with follow-up, sometimes directly with code. And I can give you different examples. I'm going back to making the most general frame, huh? Because for me the department is the two secretaries, it's not just the Secretary of Feminisms. The SOC calls for the integration of trans, refugee or regularization of migrants; these calls are worked jointly between the teams of the two departments. For what it does to co-education, this is an area that we have dealt with very much with the Education Advisor, the Education Transformation Secretariat and the two secretariats of my department. And we see the same thing: coeducation has to stop being a program, it doesn't feel like it's a program. Because if we take the law of education, the law of childhood, the four laws of equality, you say it's a principle of the education system. Therefore, it cannot be a program like a newsletter; it must be integrated. And in the new orderly decree of basic education teachings we have worked this way, because coeducation is a guiding principle of the entire education system, because sexuality education is curriculum and because in the definition of skills there appear the elements of gender perspective, equal treatment, non-discrimination, sexuality education..., transform also the curricula so that they are not Eurocentric as they are so far. All of these elements are present, and when they are in competition, they mean that they are then learning outcomes and that this can be evaluated. A change in the system educates us to see from here to the generation of the 23rd? No, no, What we do with many things is lay the groundwork for this change to happen. This will then have an impact on the training of the teaching staff, and even their own qualifications, followed by the master's degree, as well as teaching, teaching, etc. But that's what we're working on. He said, "Being there or not being there matters a lot. We are also on the plane of mental salvation, because of the dimensions of male violence, the LGBTIphobia, racism, in the mental salvation of people; also in universal basic income, to bring all this cross-sectional perspective to how we understand inequalities and what is the impact of measures; to the plane of industry, to the pact against school segregation. And, yes, it's true that we could have more resources, both human and economic, but we have to be realistic, in the sense of how much time it takes to create a department. It is that this part is inevitable – it is inevitable –, if they know more or less about Public Administration, but each process of creating a square has to be approved and has some processes and procedures. Therefore, we are incorporating the volume of people who are to be granted Chapter 1, but you can't incorporate them all at once, because you don't yet have the entire muscular structure, even the whole share of human resources has to go processing slower than a department that carries forty years with the same structure. That is why he said: "This year and a half of construction is inevitable. And I also agree with that: the creation of the council has assumed that the resources that had historically been held by the policies that have now been grouped in this department are doubled. I think it's a very positive valuation for presupposition exercise 2022. If 2025 had the same premise, it wouldn't be doing that value. But the assumption of exit, yes, because you need to have all this muscular structure in order to be able to give exit to the different projects, to be able to change processes. Because cross-sectionality, which is inherent in the DNA of this council, we will build it, because there is much more expertise at the level of entities than in the Public Administration, because there is no cross-sectional data collection. Because before we start doing things, we have to go a little slower, and with that... I say it inside and out, huh? Sometimes, the motto of the UPC was "we went slow because we went far. It's just that we didn't have methodology, there were no methodologies of some things. We are conceptualizing, we are deploying all those instruments of the Law 17/2020 in order to be able to recast, too, the servants. That is to say, we will inevitably make a transformation that is important; we have started to do it, but we need a little more room to put it all into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.199.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about the creation of a public pharmaceutical company]] [[300-00175/13]] Let's move on to the order of the day, the question to the government about the creation of a public pharmacy, which has presented the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win. And she has the word, to expose her, the deputy Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.200.0	President... Counsellor, Argimon, deputies and deputies who stayed in the hemisphere doing different work, well, we are here to talk about a proposal that is not new: public pharmaceuticals. The CUP has been putting this proposal on the table for a long time. We can talk to you today, counselor. For us, the cove left us with some terrible images that we can't go through, so much because we have to clean up responsibilities, but also because we don't have to learn lessons. And one of these lessons, in our view, is precisely the need, the urgency of betting on ways as a public pharmacist. Why? So, from a national point of view, to advance in our independence process, because in the end it's a tool that we have as the country. But then again, from a point of view of public health, it is essential to deal with the situations that we have experienced, that we never again be hostages to the interests of the private pharmaceutical industry, that we never see situations of drug shortages, that we never see situations of poor pharmaceuticals – we don't like to be adjective to the poor, because the poor are manifest in all spheres, but we understand what we are talking about – and, more importantly, because we guarantee that the investigation is about the common good and not about the most particular benefit. When the pandemic began in our home we were already puzzled by certain images, such as that of our great people abandoned to their fate, but also situations in which the population did not have access to masks, gloves, etc., or even our health personnel had access to PPEs – there are the images of our professionals, therefore, with bumps of scams like improvised PPEs–; in fact, they qualified as Kamikazes on behalf of the international press. And, at the same time, we saw the pharmaceutical industry as gold. First, what they did was to remove from the market those products that had to be destined to fight the covid, removed from the market gloves, removed hydroalcoholic gels, alcohol, oxygenated water, masks. That's what got out of the market. Later, it can only be found in certain places, such as hospitals. And, lastly, they took him to the market once they had implemented a bid, an impassionment up to the five-cents_per_cent of their original price. So they did get it on the market and, obviously, they got a juicy benefit. But, in case that wasn't enough, we saw how at a determined moment when very few people had access to the tests, so the pharmacists were guaranteeing private health care that they could have access to it, and, even so, at a time when their health professionals didn't all have access to a PCR test or test. This all happened. And we, since the CUP, have often denounced that no one should be allowed to do any business and to work at the cost of the people's salvation. And we did it to refer to private or concerted sanitation. But here, too, there is a star actor, who spends a lot more time unnoticed or without making so much noise, but who gets it almost everything, which is the pharmaceutical industry. And no one controls the pharmaceutical industry, because precisely who should be in charge of evaluating and supervising the marketing authorisation of European Union medicines, which is the European Medicines Agency, turns out to be funded in an eighty-eight per cent for the same private pharmaceutical industry. So, who would have to press the brake, who would have to press the brake, turns out he's paid for whom he's constantly interested or who's pressing the accelerator. It is above all in times of generalised crisis when we consider that since the Administration, since the institutions, we must equip ourselves with the maximum of instruments to combat those who make negotiations speculating with the lives of the people. But these mechanisms, of course, are not created for a spontaneous generation. And it was precisely in the midst of the health crisis that the UPC first laid on the table in this Parliament the imperative need to create a public pharmaceutical. This proposal was rejected with votes against Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, Ciutadans, the PSC and the Popular Party. Later, in the negotiations with Esquerra Republicana around the investiture of Pere Aragonès, therefore, we put it back on the table without success – even if they saw the little compliment or no compliment of the agreements, they would not have served as a mass that we had accepted. But, in short, let's talk about it again today. We are again insisting, because we believe that it is not only a necessary debate, but that it is a tool, as we say, essential, both from a health point of view and from a national sovereign point of view. It is essential both to refocus the investigation, as well as to improve transparency, to ensure the safety of medicines, to control prices, to end supplies shortages and to make possible the expropriation of patents. And I'm talking a little bit about every one of these points, counselor, to share the importance that we give this tool. First of all, to refocus the investigation, why is it important? Because a very large majority of treatments in the early stages of the investigation remain in a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. For them it is much more simple and succulent, profiting, to let the public institutions that make the work raw and little profitable, and when a certain compost is very promising is when the great pharmaceuticals intervene and what they do is to acquire this product benefit from all the public money invested years back Basically, we are financing with public money the most complex investigation, the basics, and we come to the industry by giving up all the rights to this product without having any mechanism to ensure that there are then reasonable and accessible prices. It is a perfect example, in our view, of public-private collaboration, which is to put public money at the service of private work. The public pharmaceutical industry would serve to refocus this situation, enhancing research at all of our universities and public research centres, but retaining the rights that are derived from this investigation and thus ensuring an equitable and responsible distribution of the final product. When we say that the public pharmaceutical industry would serve to improve transparency, we say so because private pharmaceutical industries often make it difficult or difficult to access information about adverse effects. When we say that, moreover, it would guarantee the safety of medicines, we say so because the withdrawals from the market of lots of concrete medicines because they were dangerous have shown that they give situations in which pharmaceutical industries give priority so much to amplify their benefits that they externalize production to other countries with much more lax quality controls, putting in danger the health of the patients. An industry of ownership and public management would allow economic criteria not to prevail over the safety of medicines and patients. Fourth place, why do we say we can control the prices? So because currently the profit margins are scandalous, they round a half a hundred, eighty_per_cent, and the high cost of the drug is not related to the investigation. In fact, research and research needs to be allocated one-third of the total cost, which costs the most money is marketing and promoting this product. The public Catalan pharmaceutics that would allow us to improve this relationship between the real price of the product and the final price of dispensation. Why would we be able to get rid of the supplies? We have a difficult situation of disposing of medicines from hospital users. In the Spanish State, more than two hundred medicines are quantified, some of them, about one to fifty, of major impact. What's going on? So that this high profit margin, apart from this astronomical affection, respects the real cost, is produced because they remove those drugs that, even if they are effective, do not have so much economic profitability. A precise public industry would solve the current difficult problem of food shortages placing the focus exclusively on those drugs that are necessary and effective for the safety of the population, and not thinking about the profitability index that these drugs can have. And, lastly, this public pharmaceutical is what would really allow us to use the patent expropriation tool, which, as you know, counsel, is a legal mechanism that allows a country to manufacture a generic medicine while being protected under patent, and that even more so, this expropriation could be difficult without prior negotiation with the proprietary pharmaceutical, in a context of crisis or health emergency. It is a self-defense mechanism to control preus abuse, to prevent everything from coming out, to prevent, in the end, food shortages or that people do not have access to medicines. For us this is a question of political will, counselor; a political will that we do not know whether their department or their government, therefore, have interest in developing, prioritizing the salvation of the people and planting in the face of the interests of these voltors. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.201.0	Then, has the word Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.202.0	President... Mrs Estrada... Good afternoon to everyone, deputies, deputies. Miri, there are elements of your approach in which I fully agree; not with the solution, I am already advancing, but the fact that, for example, the price of certain medicines is absolutely exorbitant, and difficult to absorb for health systems, even countries with more economic resources..., also difficult to assume. According to the element with which we also agree..., it is the fact that the pricing procedures are often not transparent. They are complex, hard to hear and few transparent. And many times the public systems, the governments, do not have the information needed to actually make this pricing. I also fully agree that the benefits of large pharmaceutical companies are greater and higher every day. We also need to agree with one thing, which is that industry also facilitates innovation, research, development..., is a tractor; therefore, we also need to recognize this. What I disagree with, or disagree with, is the solution that you propose before this reality, which is the creation of a public pharmacist. And basically, why should we..., and I will try to sum up, but basically, we should make an investment that is not being made at these times, not even at the national health system – no – at the manufacturing level. We would need an extraordinary public investment for the creation of companies that would manufacture this medicine, independent of the pharmaceutical industry. The acquisition of manufacturing and marketing companies, investment in manufacturing research, investment in making a series of clinical studies, which are obviously taking place, and sometimes it is also a fan in the public arena, but which should be on a large scale in the form of bioequivalence or non-clinical inferiority. These are studies that triage between two and five years, with costs that cannot be..., or that are – I forgive –, rather, between 5_million the most economical up to 300_million. And then we'd have to add the whole thing to keeping the plants of these characteristics. And then we go to the research level. It is considered that in order to develop a drug is triga between two and fifteen years old, it has a cost between 1,000 and 2,000 million euros, with a success rate that many times is lower than..., very small, lower than the deu_per_cent. If we consider that each year is authorized between forty new drugs and fifty nine indications of already authorised products, we would be able to study it around nine thousand. I'm talking about whether we really want a sobriety, huh? If we want a sobriety at the level of Catalonia. To equal the production rate of the pharmaceutical industry, it would be useful to resize the investment in public research in a substantial way up to the equivalent of making about four-thousand clinical projects, in clinical phase, in order to be able to really develop and pull the drugs that require a population like Catalonia or that of any other country. All this in a sustained way at the length of several years, so as to be able to guarantee, at the end of fifteen years, that it is beginning to obtain some products independent of the pharmaceutical industry. Later, a drastic reversal on patents would be needed. We could talk about this in another..., if you want, in another question, so that you don't extend, but actually speaking about the patents also has a risk of destitution. And if we were to look at a little that has happened in the international world, we would find ourselves with Cuba. Cuba, for example, is a country that, from the point of view of developing vaccination and immunotherapy, is frankly an advanced country, but it is not going to know what the rest of the medicines are, let's say so clearly. We could find the example of Sweden. Sweden has a public pharmaceutical, but the Swedish public pharmaceutics, basically, is dedicated, above all, to what is a treatment..., to making medicines adapted individually. For example, a child who may need a preparation, a specific flavor; a person who suffers from hypersensitivity; people who may be in a very advanced phase of the disease and who require a palliative cure. Not so much a new medicine, but certain presentations that can be more palatable, etcetera. But the Swedish industry is a clear example of public-private collaboration because they accept development contracts and the manufacture of medicines on behalf of others, on behalf of biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies. And if we're going to look at who they are at the drug expense ratio and with the pharmaceutical industry in Sweden, we'll find ourselves with the same ratio as in the rest of Europe. They're big pharma. Start with Merck, go on with Novartis, go on... now I'm telling you about memory, but I wouldn't want to be wrong, if it's Johnson & Johnson or Glaxon, it's the same. They are the big pharma, the first gods, and, moreover, at an equal level – similar, I speak – than to the rest of European countries. And, therefore, I, from this point of view, believe that yes..., and you have spoken before the sovereign, and then I will refer, if I may, to the reply, to the answer, because from the point of view of the sovereign there are some elements that we can move forward, and that we need to move forward so that we can also make more transparent, in order to be able to what you have said, to redirect clearly to where we want to put our efforts in search – and I am speaking now both of the pharmaceutical industry and of public search – and of international initiatives that allow, above all, to seek this urgency of the medicine. Take just for everyone: for us – when we say "the countries that can access the medicine more easily" – as for many of those countries that access it much more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.203.0	In the turn of the line, Mrs Laia Estrada has the word again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.204.0	Well, fanciful that you've already mentioned two examples of very different countries, because maybe someone imagines that the bet for a public pharmacist can only come from a formation, so it belongs to the movement of the independence left, and therefore in its idea it brings the need for public control over the strategic sectors of a country. Indeed, yes, we are betting for this public control of the strategic sectors and public services, and Cuba is an example of a socialist country that we claim and defend, and that we think that it has a totally public pharmaceutical, that embraces from what it is, therefore, research, development, research, marketing and distribution, and that it is certainly pioneering and very innovative; it is not only from the private side that we can have innovation, but also from the public side – and Cuba demonstrates it: it can have innovation – but there are also other examples, such as that of Sweden, which has nothing to do with the Cuban economic model. You were talking about Cuba, and let's remember that it currently exports to more than fifty countries, and that, certainly, its production does cover most, not all, but most of its domestic demand. And if we're talking about Sweden, in fact, its public pharmaceutical is one of the major specialty drug producers in all of Europe, and its pharmaceutical, which is made up of four factories, produces around two thousand products, and they export, is thirty-five countries from all over the world. It does not only export, but, more than that, it is dedicated to producing medicines that distribute its own company, that provides them to its public pharmaceutical company at the level, therefore, of offices that it has throughout the country. For us these two examples show that we are not talking about a chimera, that we are talking about a proposal that is feasible, that is viable, and that we already know that one day for another they are not independent of these urps, right? , of private pharmaceuticals, of the private pharmaceutical industry, but that is about a tool that is there and that allows to improve the day-to-day of the population. And if we talk about how we do it, concretely, there are reports..., concretely a report from Compromís, that it amounts to 100_million euros the investment that would be necessary initially to produce a dozen medicines, that we understand that they should be those that have the most supplies, and that, therefore, would enable us to achieve a returnability or to achieve that initial investment once you are cushioned, because we would have a fixed client, that they are our hospitals, and therefore a demand that would be totally fixed. This company we understand should depend on health, that it should be a public cent, ownership and public management, and that it should supply the entire drug circuit, from research, research and development to marketing and distribution. It wouldn't heat up or even create a new tax cap for private pharmacists. We understand that it is a matter, therefore, of assuming the challenge that this initial reversal would entail. But we understand, we insist, that the present profit margins are so high in the pharmaceutical industry that they could be cushioned in a relatively short period of time. For us economic and social scientists – social benefits, above all – allow us to understand that we are talking about a proposal that must be a priority at the country level. And, we insist, only to deal with the displeasure that exists in many medicines, we should already have enough food to develop this proposal. Meanwhile, what can we do? If you want to continue analyzing, studying whether or not the creation of this public pharmaceutical is viable, we recommend them as a minimum of four strategies. The first, to deploy the Catalan agency of the medicine, an autonomous body that should be responsible for vetting with respect to all products, therefore, sanitary, and, therefore, to vet because everything that affects these products goes to the benefit of the population's conjunction. In the second place, intervene in the wholesale market. In other words, the intervention of a public operator we understand that it would be essential to reduce the volume of the medicine circuit and to control the large amounts of stuff that can be produced and controlled by prices. Thirdly, to ensure pharmaceutical care in rural areas. It can't be that this depends on whether someone counts or doesn't put up a pharmacy. And, in fourth place, prioritize rationality in prescription and dosage. It is not possible to prescribe medicines that are more expensive than others when there is no substantial difference in effectiveness. And – I finish, President – we must stop prescribing drugs in quantities that are not necessary and therefore prioritise the single-dose system. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.205.0	And, in the turn of the line, has the words of the Councillor of Greetings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.206.0	Well, you were talking to me, Congresswoman Estrada, about the drug agency, right now, right? And, from this point of view, we do need to have an element: in Europe, medicines are approved by the EMA – you have also mentioned it before. The EMA is the only one that says whether it is effective or not, whether it is effective or not; it says little... well, it says a lot more, but basically, this is its conclusion. And it is the power of each state to decide whether or not this medicine enters the public purse and to decide the pricing. And that's why – that's why – it's important enough to be superior, so that you can decide whether or not certain drugs come into the public purse. Because they are entering the public purse – and also, let's say, they are approved by the EMA – medicines that bring little added value. And when I was talking about that sometimes the mechanisms are not transparent..., it's how we value this added value, which brings us more – facing the city, facing the patient, in this case – this medicine. And, depending on this value added, it's when I can also fix the price. This is an important element. Second important element. Many times, when the price is fixed, it is fixed..., and, above all, I speak now to the orphan medicines, because here too, let's say clearly, the pharmaceutical industry has turned. When a few years ago the industry was investigating a lot with orfe medicine – in minority disease, orfe medicine – for some years now, practically its, say, look at this orphenous disease, at this minority disease. Why? Because it's been seen that we're willing to pay. And so, at these moments, it's where they look. But I say this, because many times these minority diseases are, as his word says, for a few people – fortunately, for a few people. But, many times, the drugs – and you know that too –..., the indications expand, they expand. And when this indication expands here, it's time to renegotiate. And we – I'm talking now in the price fixing – have you, but we don't have a vote. We have the ability to infuse, and I assure you that we influence, because somehow we have put into the way the records of precisely minority malalities, a whole element of programs and projects of harmonization of medicine. Somehow we are influenced by the agency of the Spanish medicine, but we do not have the capacity to decide, we do not have it, and we want to decide. That's a pretty important element. For another song, there are also initiatives that you obviously have to face and address as you are, that are, for example, the policies that can be deployed by WHO or other international bodies, such as before, of the just price. Of the price just from two sides: from the innovative medicine that has a price, as I said before, many times exorbitant and that you do not know well why you have this price, how it developed or how this price was fixed, and that, therefore, there are problems of accessibility, and especially in certain low-income countries, or low middle-income countries. But also for what you referred to earlier: for the drugs that are more ancient, for the drugs that do not have patent. And that, since this problem, there is a problem of exaggeration, sometimes, of drugs that can be essential: a drug that everyone must remember, that it is the penicillin·benzatine, therefore, that has little commercial interest, or methotrexate, that in its moment has had a great role, that it continues to have now at certain times, but that it loses commercial interest. And, in this sense, they can also be wasted. Therefore, it is also necessary here to define this price just; price justly defined as that which is accessible for health systems and patients, which also provides a market incentive enough for the industry to invest in innovation and the production of medicines. Here you can find us. When I wanted to expose, in the first part, that I may have been very short and maybe not... and I'm sorry if it's not traditional, but what I wanted to say is, if we want the whole pharmacopoeia, that's impossible. Swedish pharmaceutics do not go through the whole pharmacopoeia; it goes to some very concrete elements – more, very well done, I recognize it – but it does not go to the global capacity we can have, from what we have in hospitals today or from what we have in primary care centres today. We could not, like the country, nor ourselves, nor the veins of France, nor of Italy, nor of Germany, nor of Sweden. Just, nailed, zero. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about prevention and reduction of tax fraud]] [[300-00176/13]] Let's move on to the eighth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the prevention and reduction of tax fraud, which the Parliamentary Group of Junts presented for Catalonia. And you have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr. Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.208.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, well, this week, one of the fiscal news, therefore, at the level of Catalonia, was the presentation of the fiscal recapitulation report of L'any 21 by the Tax Agency of Catalonia, and especially what makes reference to the outcropping, therefore, of what was intended to be tax fraud. In fact, therefore, the spectacular figures and news, in the sense that the Catalan tax agency in the year 2021 brought forth 338.5_million euros from the tax fraud, a fifty-five_per_cent higher than the previous year; but in any case, also important because it brings 1,500_million euros from the year 2015 and, therefore, configures it as a real state structure, a tool of being in the service of having a real, therefore, state, that if it is not yet a proper state, it is a state with the vocation of being an independent state, as also now with the medicine's agency the advisor Argimon. And, therefore, a tool that is at the service of the collection of taxes, but that not only do you recap, but I chase the fraud, it is an indispensable tool in a welfare state, in a state in which we emmirald from our political group. The tax fraud, as the counselor said, turned in his intervention, is not directed at a single person, it is a fraud against the company's joint venture, because through taxes, as you know and don't think I insist more, we finance public services, right? And when we draw up the premise, in this case, therefore, of the Generality of Catalonia, and it is approved in this Parliament, it is counted with a few tickets and it is counted, therefore, in providing some services to the citizenry, of all kinds, eh? , from education to transportation, to sanitation, etc. And, therefore, when someone commits tax fraud he is aware against this whole society, against the joint venture of the citizenry, but especially against the weakest. Therefore, these are the words of Councillor Giró, when he presented these data, but I believe that they are facts that from Juntas and from the coalition of government, the coalition of parties that we support the government, we are committed to fighting against this fraud, to have a more just country, a more supportive country, especially a country... that we are admiring in other countries of Europe. We should have the necessary tax culture to think that paying taxes is not a obligation, paying taxes is a debt, a corporate debt. And, therefore, we should also have the tax agency work like a tax agency that imposes on us or gives us a greater tax culture, right? , to all the citizens of the country. Because, in fact, our country, which is not independent, is immersed in a state that, man, is not very exemplary in that sense, huh? , for doing the prosecution. And, also, this very week, we didn't have another pretty deplorable example, when we had one of the real pickles or the real pickles, huh? When he came out to the press, he said: "I have to give explanations, of what? And so these are the examples that in a state, so they can't get to the city. Not like examples of famous characters, sportsmen or the world of music. And, therefore, when we aspire to be a state we must do so thinking of a state, in this sense, that the tax culture is already introduced from school, from teaching, to be citizens, as we say, adults fiscally, and that they are not always thinking with this picaresc of escaping or cheating with the different taxes that they don't, precisely, to finance, therefore, the public services, the services, as we say, of social rebalancing, etcetera. In fact, these results form part, therefore, of the plan that in this Parliament was exposed the year 19. The tax fraud prevention and reduction plan 2019-2022, and this plan also stood out, as it was said, in the creation of a Catalan tax agency, so, well solid, because it's a country tool, it's a state structure, huh? and, therefore, we worked as we did with this fiscal awareness, legal certainty and mutual trust between the citizenry and the executed power. This is part, as we say, of this good government. This plan which was presented to Parliament in the year 19 contemplated seventy-five measures: thirty-seven of fraud prevention; twenty-two of control, detection and correction; seven of social involvement in prevention and reduction, and new in resources and endowment of the tax agency. Of these seventy-five measures, twenty-nine were in line with the previous plan of 2015, and when, therefore, this result of the year 21, these seventy-five measures, although we come from two years of pandemic and, therefore, two difficult years, therefore deu-no-do, because it is assumed..., the figures that the Director General, Mrs Espasa, exposed, advanced that they were with an approximate compliment of the norma_per_cent in some case, of the seventy-five_per_cent in another case, of these measures that the pleasure had proposed. I'd like to highlight a few of them. I would like to highlight some who I think are important, as I said before. It's not just the tax recap, the tax agency's, it's not just the tax fraud, it's the tax agency's, it's the tax agency's, it's the tax agency's, I think, I think, the best is one, the tax awareness. I've said it before. The fiscal awareness of the citizenry believes that it is one of the values or great values that would differentiate us from other tax agencies, right? And in this case, I like to put in value, as they exposed from the council when they presented the results, both the tax education that was given in secondary teaching cycles, despite the pandemic, or the civic awareness campaigns, huh? , to go..., to try to avoid tax fraud. Or, for example, the power of the complaint bust. Or, for example, the publication of the tax bank, the gap in the collection of taxes, taxes. Also, iron, propose legislative measures. Some were approved with the law accompanying the assumptions. Others will come in the next year's accompanying law, which we will do at the end of this year. o, for example, with fears that affect society, such as, for example, the collaborative economy. The society goes many times faster than the laws, and therefore we find ourselves, therefore, that, from the tax point of view, we must also try to give response to new situations that the citizenry poses. Or, for example, incorporate technology so that the relationship between the city and the tax agency is easier. This is also why the adviser on the press wheel is ugly, to put at the service of the citizenry different mechanisms and means to make front and easy, to make this duere, that not an obligation, to pay the taxes, to pay the taxes through app, through Bizum, through the nine ways that technology allows us. Therefore, a tax agency also of the 21st century. Also, in this sense, highlight, for example, this by having a new space where you contribute, digitally, can communicate, can relate to the tax agency, or, for example, a mobile application, huh? , or, for example, to present taxes electronically, or, for example, to publish lists of taxable debtors, to make tax fraud public. So these are ciphers, as we say, positive, interesting. And, therefore, I believe that from here Parliament deserves to congratulate the Catalonian Tax Agency and all its task force that they presented to us from this year 21. Waiting for this, past the pandemic, which, therefore, entailed some added communication difficulties with the citizenry or, for example, this diffusion task..., and that, therefore, the 22nd the figures are still better. And to emphasize that this has been done from the field of recaptation with more than 12,000 performances, in the field of tax management with 39,000 performances, and in the field of inspection with 1,700 performances. Wishing also that the inspector's task would be reduced because the citizens in each time commit less fraud or tax fraud, meaning that awareness works. And also to put into evidence – that it is one of the questions that I will like to make to the councilman – that many times this tax fraud in the face of displacement has nothing to do with the capital of the kingdom or with the autonomous communities on the side, but it has to do with an international phenomenon. Also put into evidence the greater endowment of resources with which the tax agency has counted. And also, as a negative note, highlight that the state agency would tax a year more, so it has not managed to share all the information with the Catalonia Tax Agency in order to be more effective and, therefore, also to make it manifest. Mr. Counselor, how do you value from the council, you, these dates of the 21st year? How will the tax agency evolve to improve even more effectively? What about this displacement in citizens' tax fraud? And what happens in a concrete case, that it is the recapitulation of the waste canon, that they have kept us, that they have re-entered us, that it was a pioneer tax on the State that was returning to correct environmental effects and that now will not have the tax agency nor, therefore, directly the Government of Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.209.0	The word has the advisor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.210.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Mr Munell, I start at the end: the residue canon, which, as you very well said, has led us through this process of re-centralisation that we are patenting. I have asked Minister Montero to manage the tax; for, unfortunately, it will no longer be a proper tax, which, at least, we can manage directly from the tax agency, as it establishes an additional provision of the law. Look, the key to a welfare state is its tax system. If you make a rest of the countries to which we would like to assemble, you will see that they all have a robust tax system, oriented towards redistribution, of progressive character and with an implacable mechanism of persecution of the fraud. Returning to these tax systems, it has implied a contract; it is a contract linking all citizens and citizens with their State. Simplifying a lot, we may think that this contract only has two clauses: one formal and one material. The formal clause says that I, as a citizen, am willing to give up some of my resources to the State, but with the blessing that you, the State, will apply these resources to which we have convinced and to something else. I repeat: you, State, must apply the resources that I surrender to what we have granted. The second clause is a material clause and sets out the purposes for which these resources are to be applied by citizens and citizens. And in the case of a welfare state these ends are well known: we have to apply them to correct the inequality of opportunity, to provide basic services and to ensure that all people have guaranteed minimum levels of welfare. This is, therefore, the second part of the contract. In states that scrupulously respect these two clauses, citizens feel part of a common project, because they see in their taxes the most effective way to get their country to be a country that is ready and fair. In change, in the states in which these clauses are not respected, coexistence, solidarity and cohesion are terribly felt. And then it's when we run the risk that the fraud can escape. We see what's going on in Spain. In Spain we know of the certain – there is no doubt about the respect – that what was the head of the State until now has committed fiscal crimes for which he has not been persecuted. He's escaped for three reasons that I let you qualify yourself. Because some of these crimes were committed to the immunity man who provided for him in the Constitution. The second reason, because other crimes have prescribed. And the third reason, curious too, because a series of anonymous donors have gathered money to pay their debts and penalties. At the same time, in Spain, the State does not find it difficult to devote the resources that its citizens give to spy on the same citizens while exercising their legitimate right to do politics. In Spain, in summary, the first clause of the social contract on which a state of democratic and just welfare is based is systematically being broken. I remind you of what that first clause gave you: You, State, will apply the resources that I give you in which we have convinced and in something else. I should be told, Members and Members, if what we have convinced is to maintain, with our money, an excap of the State that has never done honour – that has never done honour – in the framework of its fundamental obligations. I should be told whether it forms part of the contract to cover a system of espionage which considers enemies to many of the deputies of this chamber and to many political leaders and which is thus corroding the pillars of democracy. They'll have to tell me, in short, if we weren't all better off in a country where the head of state was not a biologic, but a political thing. It's like, you don't take people off, you take people off. If we weren't better off in a country where security services are dedicated to making us feel safer and not more helpless. Mr. Munell, I would say that taxation is also a state of anime, and the states of anime believe in two ways: they depend on reality, that is, on what we see happening in the day to day really, or they can also depend on opinion, that is, on what others say. It's important one thing, and it's important the other. Some parties in this chamber, as you know, believe that if they repeat, once and for all, that Catalonia is paid massively, it will end up consolidating the general impression that Catalonia is paid massively, even though, as is the case, this is not true. To face this tactic I want to offer you an exercise that is politically difficult, but that is necessary. I mentioned it this morning, but I want to insist. I want to propose that we listen in little equality – in little equality – so much to them that they complain like they are not complaining, so much to them that they criticize like they don't say anything. Who's a tax complaint to Catalonia? Who's a complaint? Which parties are they complaining about? Who do they represent these games to? Who institutions take the word in the name of these games? And, at the other end, what do they tell us that they don't say anything? What do the vast majority of Catalans say when we all go to the territory and talk to people about markets, social entities, cultural entities? What do the middle classes, the most vulnerable classes tell us? Have they found, have you found any social entity, any institution that works with vulnerable people, that they're telling us that Catalonia is being taxed? I know there are aspects that we need to resolve, I know. We need to review the current set-up of some taxes and we need to take a step further. We've already done one: we've lowered the IRPF from low and middle returns, I know. But we also have to listen, every time more, to the one who tells us who is silent or who does not have powerful loudspeakers. They ask you, Members and Members, that whenever this chamber is talking about taxes, and I think that it will continue to talk and it seems to me very good, we always try to do this exercise: stop the hearing also to the one who does not raise the eye. I'm done. If the State is to complete its part of the contract, the citizen is also to complete ours, and ours is to pay the taxes that surround us. And that's why you've remembered, Mr. Munell – tax fraud is a behavior that deserves the greatest loss, because it's not directed against a person like most crimes, but it's directed against the company's joint and especially against the most vulnerable. The tax agency, for me, I have to tell you the truth – you have made reference to it – represents what could be – and, in fact, it is – a state structure. But it's more than that. It gives us the clue, the Tax Agency of Catalonia, as well as all the structures of our State, if we have the capacity – and I hope we have it – to give ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.211.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about the resources planned for the summer season]] [[300-00177/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the question to the Government about the resources planned for the summer season, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units presented to advance. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.212.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... I honestly believe, councillor, that this inquiry up in a proper time. And I'm telling you precisely for the temperatures we've had this past week. The good weather has caused a lot of people to cling to plagiarism and laughter to cool off, at a time when there is no protocol. And here the theme generates a lot of doubts about the safety of our beaches and pools and, in general, the aquatic environment. Perhaps you yourself may think that it's a little strange to ask him about a topic that later arose from the sport, although we all know that it's not just about sports, but about citizen security. I was pleased that, one month in the summer season, this issue was resolved satisfactorily by the government that you represent. But seeing the inaction on the subject, it seemed to me that it was more appropriate to be able to ask him in this Parliament. At this time, the government has not yet decided how it will, this summer, to guarantee this security that they were talking about the beaches, the swimming pools of all Catalonia. At these heights, no one knows if this year will again apply the moratorium of the rescuers for the first time; if, on the contrary, they supplement the law or modify it. It is sad and regrettable to note that you have been unable to demand the title that sets the law, so that, again, the Generality has approved a moratorium to avoid it. But I ask them: until when, counselor? Do they really care about them and deal with them as little as they do to get away with it all the time and drive away without ever solving the issue? The inertia of looking at the other side before the rescue and rescue professions that work without legal title does not seem the best way to tackle the issue, which is important, and important, because you think that there are banyistas' lives in the beaches and pools. Miri, advisor, in 2017, the Generalitat left behind the administrative infringements to hire rescuers who are not registered in the Official Register of Professionals of the Sports of Catalonia, as required by Law 3/2008, of the professions of the sport. Therefore, counselor, it is obvious that they see this panorama that they can answer us if they intend to reapply a moratorium. If it were that way, it'd be the sisena once, if it ever happened that we'd find ourselves with this problem. Could you clarify how and when you're going to deal with this, counselor? Don't you think the subject of 'lshi' has escaped a melee of hands? Miri, Councillor, in 2018, the Presidential Councillor, through a written answer to a question about the issue of moratorium, said: "To allow pool rescuers to also exercise on platges, the aim is to give time to so that October 2020 everyone who works as a rescuer in the sector of platges complies with the regulations in force for the training and exercise of the profession. 2020. Counselor, a response from the Government, I did not make up myself; it was a response given by the Government, and I said that 2020 had been resolved. We're at 2022, still the same. What has the government done at this time? No, he didn't do anything. And, logically, one more year we're back in front of the same problem. Counselor, there are fears that they are well resolved. Because, then, don't tell me I'm just saying the wrong things. There are things that do good. And you don't think I'm doing it wrong, do you? I'm saying it all in color, huh? The security of the beaches and pools does not depend exclusively on a department or an institution alone, I will explain to you in detail how the topic is. We could say that the Generality has well resolved the formation of these professionals – referring to the rescue workers – since this is done through the Department of Education by means of a specific title of sport technique in rescue and rescue and coordination with the Red Creed. But on the other hand, we also find ourselves with private entities that provide related training, and here, counselor, we start to lose. And let me tell you something else: the training that private companies give through the certificates of professionalization and professional training are also considered an official training, but this training is when private companies decide, with the students they want. And, in addition, this formation, in addition, is subject to subsidies. Counselor, do you think there's enough inspection of this subject? Do you not think that perhaps this inspection should be strengthened? The data in Catalonia are clear: they form every year in Catalonia nine hundred rescuers, and, therefore, we can say – and contrasted with the Federation of Rescue and Rescue – that at these times there is no shortage of rescuers – there is no shortage of rescuers. Counselor, I know that you are working with the Federation of Rescue and Rescue a project that coordinates the federation itself and also collaborates with the Mosso d'Esquadra, the Catalan Council of Sport and Civil Protection. In fact, in 2018, the Catalan Federation of Rescue and Rescue, at the Institutes of the Catalan Council of Sports and Municipalist Entities, had already started this study to verify the places they needed in the Platges of Catalonia. Since 2018, this study has been called for. It's 2022. This project should also be used to raise and resolve other issues. For example, how is it to be regulated? We, counselor, are of the opinion that we should regulate it through a suitable arrangement and that these professionals should be part of the safety nets. We believe, counselor, that there must be a superior organ that coordinates it and rules it, where it is specified when the bathing season begins and from what period to which others went. It has to be specified at which hours the platters are guarded and how many hours these professionals can work. And above all, to put an end to the precarious work of this job. It would also be necessary to establish what plagiarisms should be held by rescuers. Whoever misses us, counselor, I think they're criteria. We lack criteria, there are no criteria, they are not well specified. Why, counselor, who decides where he is and where he doesn't put a rescuer? Do we leave it in the hands of the gatherings that decide it? But how do you decide these joints? If we leave it at the hands of the joints, with what common criteria? Do we have criteria like, for example, influx or extension? We find that the regulation of the Civil Protection agents is done; in other places, staff close to the joint ventures, and in many cases the service for external companies is outsourced, which, by the way, do not have a common regulation, and this is the field that can. We cannot leave the responsibility only to the joints, because, as always, they find themselves alone; they have to coordinate properly. He knows very well that the municipal ordinances are different from each municipality. And, therefore, we need to have clear criteria so that the assemblies can follow clearly. And when the assemblies subcontract the rescue and rescue service, the local administrations draft the departure of conditions. Yes, each one in its own way, with good will and sure that with good criteria; but we sincerely believe that it should be regulated in a coordinated manner. And the reality is that the number-per-cent of the rescuers are private contractors, and it's always left to the private company the last word about the criteria, without having previously coordinated it with the departments involved. Counselor, we think that, at the country level, the Autonomic Administration should make this regulation. Why is it, for example, that Portbou decides not to put rescue guard and rescue me to his plagiarism, and Blanes and Cambrils, yes? It is necessary to define with which criteria the professionals are placed on our plagiarisms. The pandemic facilitated something, a concrete aspect that we had not contemplated, and that is the influx. Every platter can know perfectly at this time, because it was done through drones, staff who often put their own together – I finish, president. And all these measures could allow us to decide whether it is absolutely necessary to have rescuers and at what time. So, counselor, how are you gonna do all this? What resources do they have in mind? We're running out of resources to secure security, and at this hour, we're late. The second part of the intervention I'll just comment on what I'm saying. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.213.0	The word has the advisor of Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.214.0	Well, president... MPs, deputies... MP, I want to start by saying that I certainly should not have raised this question or asked another department, but I am sure, because it has been talking about issues that are the fundamental competence of the Presidency, they are the competence of Education, they are the competence of other areas of the Government. Certainly, I feel absolutely co-responsible, but, as I can imagine, it seems to me that we could have talked about it in another area, that it would certainly have been much more useful, let's face it, I have the impression. From every angle, it's started out with something I share, and it's a good time to talk about this, naturally. He asked about the resources planned for the summer season. And, yes, we have done in all areas, also in the rescue, therefore, a remarkable effort to increase the service in many areas, also naturally in the rescue in the marine spaces, and, in particular, from the Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squad. Therefore, effectively, it is a concern of this Government, and naturally, as it cannot be otherwise, in all these areas we coordinate with local authorities in a timely manner, which are competent in this legislation and in the security of plagiarism and public spaces. And so, in this sense, they are the competent ones, and they are, because that determines the law of costs, the ones that determine what means they possess, what resources they possess and what form, whether with suitable personnel or through the contracting of external services. I'm saying, because it can be deduced that, from what you say, they seem to be smaller than ever before. I said, "How do you like it? And with what criteria do they do that? And with what will they do it? And some of them do it well and some of them do it badly. Certainly, and certainly in all areas, but this does not mean that you have to be regulated and coordinated and explicitly marked from the General Administration. We always talk about the principle of subsidiarity. It seems to me that, in this sense, the law determines who is responsible, and, from this point of view, we know that the work is doing the best that can be done on the part of the assemblies. As in other areas. That he wanted to take advantage of the opportunity for them to make an inquiry about issues related to rescue: there is a part, that is maritime rescue, that is a competence that, according to the Statute of Autonomy, should be the competence of the Generality of Catalonia and thus the Statute of Autonomy, in its article 132.3 of Emergencies and Civil Protection, which explains that the executive competence of maritime rescue corresponds to the Generality of Catalonia. And as in so many things, unfortunately, therefore, it follows from the centrality, from Madrid, and neither is the cessation of competence, which is fixed for the State of autonomy, nor, naturally, the cessation of the resources necessary to be able to pull it forward. Indeed, to which you refer on the plagiarisms, so yes, there must be coordination on the part of Civil Protection; so it is. And from Civil Protection it works in collaboration with the assemblies in different areas. And in particular, therefore, there has been the incorporation of nine people, to go incorporating all the data and all the location of the landings at every moment and to go monitoring them, to fix them in an app, because all the citizens can have access at every moment to which is the location of the landings, in which situation they are, also from the point of view of safety and rescue and emergencies. And, in this sense, four people have joined, therefore, during these past weeks, in order to be able to do all this follow-up. So, on the other hand, naturally, of the Centre for Operational Coordination of Catalonia, of Cecat, too, is all this information back so that it can be arranged for citizens and citizens, and also for joints at the time of taking their decisions. More of us are working in another area. There is a part of the rescue that you have to see with the Bomber Cos of the Generality of Catalonia, and, in this sense, in the last few days, 154 more people have been incorporated to work in support of Bombers of the Generality, which, as you know, are responsible for making the rescue pockets; unfortunately, in the maritime rescue not, because of the problem I have told you of the skills that should be delegated and not done, but in other areas of the territory, in subaquáticas and also in internal waters. And, in this sense, the work that is done by the Bomber Cos is very relevant, and there was, therefore, the year 21, for example, when searched and rescued in the river and 100_disset in the sea. Feia referred you to the pools. As you know, the regulation corresponds to the field of safety and also to the field of sports. There are obligations that are fixed by correspondents decreed in spaces that have more than two-hundred_metre_squares. The obligation corresponds to the private. And, in this sense, on the part of the different departments it is a follow-up, that the regulations are complete. Yes, it is a concern of the government and, in this sense, we are at the disposal of its group, and naturally of the assemblies, to improve and enrich everything that may be necessary. For what he refers to the specific question that he has asked me regarding the moratorium, I am aware that at these times he is studying what solution he has given to this situation, and in the next few weeks he will take a determination that will naturally expose himself here in Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.215.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.216.0	Look, counselor, a good government is what comes out here, in this faristol, and it is in solidarity with the rest of its government. And the first thing you said was that they came from another department. Now I'll explain why they don't depend on another department – now I'll explain it. Miri, I was commenting to the beginning of my intervention that this issue involves various departments of the Government of Catalonia. We have talked about the formation of the Department of Education, one; we have talked about regulation through a convention that could be internal, which also belongs to Civil Protection; I have talked about the Catalan Council of Sport; we are already concrete that it is a sport activity in a concrete environment. And now I'll talk to you about the Department of Health, which you made no reference to. So, for now four departments that have some connection to the issue we're talking about – some, okay? Hey. The Department of Health has a decree, as you said, on 165/2001, which says that swimming pools with top layers – you say – of two hundred square meters must have a rescuer. But – but – the decree, in change, does not specify which characteristics must have these rescuers or how many hours they can work, nor, obviously, does it speak of working conditions. And here, counselor, we're also talking about economic resources, we're talking about economic resources. And we also have the cost law, which you were also commenting on, the 98 cost law, which is an instruction, and Article 115 says that you must keep the fees and public places of bany in the conditions of cleanness, hygiene, health care, as well as monitoring compliance with the standards and instructions dictated by the State Administration on the salvation and security of human lives. And the subject of work, counselor, we also need to talk. I mentioned four departments. So look, one_five department: the Department of Work. You're asking a question. I don't know who to ask, huh? In Fi, Presidency, Interior, Work, Hi..., I don't know. But ask 'a question: who wants to work three months many hours, little rest, with a lot of responsibility and with a precarious son? I'll tell you what: no people – no people. Look, nobody's professionalizing these people. We're not worthy of your pocket. They have temporary contracts, poorly paid and little recognizable. And do you know what's going on? That we are imparting the regulated formation from the Department of Education. We allocate resources, and in the end these people do not finish practicing the profession because of the bad working conditions they have. And, sadly – painfully – every year we find ourselves with victims of odegaments. Eighty-eight per cent of the complaints registered in Catalonia did not have an active surveillance service. More than half of the deadly ostagments pass to the beaches, and remain in pools, rivers, lakes, pantans, canals or other types of embassements. Look, counselor, I'll tell you one thing: when there's an unfortunate death, who gives the face? Probably your department, huh? , and you yourself in the front. Therefore, I believe that it was appropriate to ask you the question and the question to you. I think it was very relevant to do it to you. In fact, the Emergency Management and Civil Protection Service warns that dead people are worrying. And, therefore, I believe that this is a matter that we need to resolve. It is clear that we lack security campaigns, especially on the moors, to reinforce it. And, counselor, we need more security measures, more economic resources, more information campaigns to prevent these offenses, and we also need more specialized personnel. Finally, counselor, the security of the beaches and swimming pools of our country we believe is not well resolved. They can't do only the meetings, they need criteria, and the criteria can be set by the Government of Catalonia. And, above all, we need that between you, between the various departments, he is a coordinator. If there's no such coordination, that's the field that can. We need more thought-provoking, structured, more work with the Federation of Rescue and Rescue, more work with the Red Cree, with private businesses, and above all we need this government to take over the kingdoms of this issue to solve it quickly. He said that by a few weeks they would solve the issue of the moratorium. No, but we're already in summer, huh? That's where we can move forward. And, therefore, we must find a solution to an issue that is widening, unfortunately, without a horizon. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.217.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the counselor Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.218.0	President... deputies, deputies... deputy, no, I don't..., solidarity, I don't know how far, with all the government's companies, unlimitedly. But it is you who have asked me – to the Councillor of the Interior – about the resources planned for the summer season. And you can imagine that a, when you think about it... the list of things you imagine you can ask the Interior Counselor about it. And I assure you, he asked me some questions that, basically, they have to see with other councils. And it's not that I snuck out, it's that I had no awareness that in questions about things related to Health, the Presidency, Education, the SOC, all these elements. So I understood my surprise. Naturally, that's a matter I'm worried about. Home, naturally. As I worry about everything you have to do with security and the emergence of the country. But he went back to referring to the role of joints in relation to plagiarism. Ostres, the law clearly establishes that it is the competence of the assemblies. Then we can do an exercise with the federation to set general criteria, etc. But it would be to interfere in his competitions. So, what has been the precarity of work? That's right, that's true. But this... we would also have to ask ourselves what can happen in many other areas in which the Generality cannot stand in the middle of a municipal competence and which do the gatherings on some of the skills that are theirs, because it is not our responsibility. If the Assembly of..., it's the same, imagine 'none, Vilanova and the Geltrú, makes a certain application, which is the Generality to tell it exactly what the criteria are, which are the resources, which is the name of people... It's not our competence. Does that mean escape from responsibility? No, no, It's just that it's not our competition. Now, collaborate with the assemblies, coordinate with the assemblies in relation to all of this, yes. That's why in what is our competence, such as emergencies and rescues linked to the Bomber Cos, this is, in all areas, but particularly in this, too, strengthening. And the reinforcement, therefore, with much more personal, contracting these last three years thousand more members of the Bomber Coss, or laying this summer– and also until the year 24, in a program of two years– 134 more people to make reinforcement; to be able, precisely, to do more work than is the propriety of the Bomber Coss and, in this case, therefore, also linked to salvations. Or also in this coordination task that Cecat does and, therefore, Civil Protection. In this sense, we also reinforce it. And we incorporate more people, to make this work also linked to gathering plates – which is our job – all the information about the state of the platters to give it to the joints and, particularly, naturally, to the citizen and citizens so that they can dispose of them. This is our job. And, naturally, at the disposal of the Socialist Group to look at what measures, through the movement, they consider more opportune and which can improve this task, this work. We will continue to put more and better resources to ensure that it is our obligation to ensure the security and emergence of the citizens of the country. And, naturally, also, at the disposal of the gatherings wherever possible, therefore, to help us coordinate more and better. And our disposition is in this and also in assuming those skills that at these times are ours, but that they have not been granted by the Government of the State, as is the maritime rescue, which I insist, because it seems to me to be relevant, that it is a competence that should be, it is, as established by the Statute of Autonomy, the competence of the Generality of Catalonia and that the State is refusing to give it; not only the competence, but also the resources. And as I know that you have the principle of subsidiarity that you have very internality, I am sure that also at the Congress of Deputies will help us to work in this direction. Thank you very much. And I repeat: at the disposal of your group in the process of the motion that will be done in the own Ple, and naturally, always in the local world, to help in what is needed. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.219.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the government about the energy combination, which the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has presented. [[Asking the Government about the energy mix]] [[300-00179/13]] He has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy, Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.220.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Jordà, Counsellor, this inquiry presented today by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group should serve to open an indispensable debate. A debate that when it has occurred has been with the letters marked by ideology and far removed from pragmatism that demands government responsibility. A debate that would never take place in this Parliament if we were waiting for the start of it by the parliamentary group which, in theory, is leading the opposition. I say «in theory because, in practice, the PSC behaves no longer as a government in the shadow, but as a mere comparison to the dawn of the wishes of Pedro Sánchez, who needs separatism to keep clinging to his armchair in the Moncloa. And to show the button of the infamous strategy of Salvador Illa and his parliamentary group, dizzinessing the loss with reforming the law of education of Catalonia in order to try to sort out the imminent consequences of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia on the use of Spanish as a vehicle language in Catalan classrooms. The PSC, as always, anchored to sterile and unnecessary debates to the greater glory and benefit of separatism. It is not the case of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans in the Parliament of Catalonia, which we continue to be where we were, where we have always been, defending the equal rights of all Spaniards, therefore, defending the equal rights of all Catalans, integrated in the Spanish nation, depositary of sovereignty and indivisible subject of democratic rights. Therefore, the fundamental debates have to be opened by us, and we do so from the conviction that they are essential and with the firm will to put us at the service of the whole citizenry; not of an ideological group or of another, not of a political party; of each and every Catalan citizen, with loyalty to what it means to be members of this Parliament, in which we represent each and every one of our fellow citizens, apart from their ideas or political affinities. Because, as Members of this Parliament, we must be the guarantors of preserving the general interest above the party interest. Counselor, we are suffering a persistent crisis that affects and harms the majority of Catalan citizens; an economic-financial crisis that affects the social rights of many of our fellow citizens; a crisis that seems to have anchored us to the past, if not because the growing debt that has been assumed by the public administrations, the governments that are disgoverning us, did not make us long for the financial situation that the State as a whole had only ten years ago. Counsellor, a huge crisis, a gigantic crisis that in recent months is being aggravated by the consequences of the Russian invasion and massacre that Putin is carrying out in Ukraine. From Citizens, we have been talking about the need for a paradigm shift in the energy transition for months; we have done so in the European Parliament and also in the General Courts. Today, once again, we put it in the Parliament of Catalonia. In order to get out of the crisis with guarantees and without further increasing the public debt, which has become a bottomless pit years ago, it is necessary for the public administrations, all of them, that all governments facilitate the creation of wealth for businesses, that we are able to adopt protective measures for workers who secure their jobs and guarantee the creation of new jobs and the consequent reduction of unemployment. And that is, without any doubt, to achieve the socio-economic conditions that will improve the competitiveness of companies and their profitability. Without that premise, the crisis that plagues us will become a peach that bites its tail, entering a vicious circle from which we will not be able to get out. One of the essential conditions for ensuring the competitiveness of companies is the access to energy they need for the development of their business under the best market conditions. Current energy costs are not only drastically reducing business profit margins, but are also closing down many small businesses and many self-employed workers, who are forced to leave their business activities drowned by high operating costs. The cost of energy is absolutely out of the question; exponential growth that seriously harms much of our productive fabric and that exacerbates and distresses the majority of workers and their families. Of course, patches are not a solution. You, councillor, are in charge of the few, but sufficient powers that fall on the autonomous administration in this field; you are responsible for energy in Catalonia, as it is for the environment and ecological transition. Let's talk about energy in Catalonia. You know, Counselor, that, as far as primary energy sources are concerned, two-thirds come from fossil fuels, mainly oil and natural gas; a quarter comes from nuclear fission, and a five-per-cent irrisory comes from renewable energy sources. This distribution of primary energy sources has a first logical consequence: our energy mix depends a lot, a lot, on third countries. We don't have oil, we don't have natural gas, we don't have uranium. In Spain, but especially in Catalonia, our final energy availability depends very much on third parties, as the data published by the Catalan Energy Institute show. As for the final energy consumed, once transformed from its primary sources, forty-five per cent goes to the transport sector; twenty-five per cent, to industry; thirteen per cent, to services, and less than fifteen per cent, to the household consumer. The origin of this final energy, of that energy that reaches the final consumer, the seventy_per_cent comes from fossil fuels, the fourth comes in the form of electricity and less than four_per_cent comes from renewable energies. Therefore, counselor, if we put on the hat of climate change, the energy mix of Catalonia, as it is also in the whole of Spain, continues to have a huge impact in terms of the generation of greenhouse gases, and especially of CO2, both in terms of the mix of primary energy, dominated by fossil fuels, as well as of secondary energy, the energy made available to consumers, whether business, institutional or domestic. Counselor, you have launched this competition in this legislature, but your government is a discontinuous government, a continuousist government, heir to the institutional demersal generated successively by Artur Mas, Carles Puigdemont and Joaquín Torra. I say this without the slightest hint of acrid, counselor, but you are part of an executive council that is responsible for the inefficiency of its predecessors in terms of energy management and the determined fight against climate change and the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Catalonia's energy and climate change plan, driven by the first of the sorcerer's apprentices whom I mentioned a moment ago, has been one more of the innumerable fiascos of the successive government failures of the Generalitat. With no room for surprise, as far as energy is concerned, in Catalonia, we are just as bad as we were in 2012. And, if we talk about renewable energies, immobilism is absolute, and the inability of the autonomous administration to lead, in which much of the competence lies, is an undeniable reality: neither renewable nor distribution network nor nothing at all. They are good words, but few facts, to say the least. And we must speak clearly: this inability of the Government of the Generalitat to lead, in which the Government of Spain does not go behind them, has two clear consequences. First, which is not effectively combating excessive greenhouse gas emissions throughout the final energy production and consumption process. Second, that excessive dependence on fossil fuels, whose price is highly conditioned by the geopolitical conditions of the moment, has triggered energy prices to consumption in a doubly perverse way. On the one hand, punishing both business competitiveness and the pocket of domestic consumers. On the other hand, allowing some producing companies, supported by the consumer price-fixing system, to access deorbited profits compared to the processing cost of primary energy sources. Commissioner, what does your Government intend to do to alleviate the serious economic, social and environmental consequences arising from the composition of the energy mix in Catalonia? Will renewable energies be vigorously promoted or will they be limited to speaking of them as a panacea to prevent climate change, but without promoting and promoting the conditions necessary for these inexhaustible primary energy sources to develop and deploy rapidly and effectively in Catalonia? Are they going to work to reform the energy mix and to boost and boost renewable energies, or are they going to follow a profile, folded, as always, to groups that advocate decline and maintain reactionary immobilisation? Because the bill is paid by workers and families, but also by the environment, which remains subject to excessive emissions of greenhouse gases. And please, counselor, don't use the skills wildcard on me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.221.0	The words "Climate Action Advisor", "Food" and "Rural Agenda", Ms. Teresa Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.222.0	Very nice late. Thank you very much, President. Miri, Mr. Member of Parliament, Mr. Alonso, from the outset knows that the competitions, a servant, for this country, would want them all, and I assure you that I would not give up completely. Miri, theoretically you came here to talk about the energy model, and it started in a way a little strange, that if I allow myself I will already enter the second part of my intervention. I think I've said that on many occasions, huh? For this government, the energy transition towards a distributed, democratic, participatory and territorially cohesive model is a priority. But, in addition, it is also true that the war of war, which you have not spoken to Ukraine, and the political, economic and obviously social consequences which it has generated, have made it clear that there is a need, in the sense of doubt, to accelerate a change in the model of energy supply. This is evidence. From this government, we don't want to put the focus on the provision, in the sense of who supplies us with this energy, but we also understand that it is essential to relate it to the generation, that is to say to how we generate this energy. Think you're extremely important, too. And, in this sense, I let him tell me that I can't be more categorical at the time of positioning this council and this government as well. We are – we are – extremely convinced of the green transformation that our country needs. That's why we can't disconnect the relationship between energy and climate policies from the government's policies – you too have made reference – and, if I may, also from the quality of the area. The will of this team is to change the vision that prevailed in the last thirty years in energy. I've also explained it many times. A visit, if I may, focused solely and exclusively on fossil gas, oil and nuclear. A fact that, with the first effects of climate change in our home, in our country, therefore, has accentuated, no doubt, the imperative need to accelerate or integrate, from a holistic view, energetic policies, all of them, and preservation of the natural environment. Therefore, I would also like to recall the mandates approved by this Parliament. I'll be back for the umpteenth time. The commitment of the Government of the Generality, as the national pact for the energy transition and the Law 16/2017 of the climate change, is meant to contribute towards the transition to a society in which the consumption of fossil fuels, in this case, tends to be zero, with a decentralized energy system, with a decarbonised energy system based on renewable energies, mainly of proximity, with the objective also of achieving an economic and energetic model not dependent on fossil fuels or nuclear fuels, the year 2050. That's the point. Leave a reference to nuclear. It is true that the European Union has included nuclear energy and natural gas under certain conditions, eh? , therefore, from the taxonomy of green energies. But, look, this measure has as its sole objective to facilitate the temporary financing of new projects related to these energy sources, but in no case should I say – in no case – it is not a firm bet of the European Union for these energies in the future, as it is in the case of renewable energies. Consider what he does to our country about these two energies, which you also told me about. On the one hand, we know that natural gas will keep an important weight in the composition of the energy system in our country, in short, but it is not contemplated, it is also true, new investments in this area. This is a reality. In fact, it is expected that the currently existing power plants of combined natural gas tanker cycle, vagina closing progressively, once their useful life ends, eh? Therefore, it is not considered natural gas as a source of energy bearing the year 2050. In this sense, too, let me say, we are on the line of the Spanish Government, which does not foresee new investments in natural gas or in new installations, nor in combined cycle, nor in transport and distribution infrastructure of natural gas, except for investments, so we must say, to the biogas injection network, biometà, in short, that we already have a strategy and that we are very, very interested in it. It seems, however, that you – in fact you have already said it –, so, go on, right? I'm doing everything to the contrary, and they're asking here what they've already asked for in Madrid, which seems very licit to me. On the other hand, for nuclear energy, the decision taken by the Government of the Generality is, Mr Alonso, its abandonment – it is its abandonment – as established by the law of climate change, despite the reduced impact, it is obvious that it has on the climate change, the generation of nuclear electricity, the environmental impact of radioactive waste, which does exist, and, obviously, also, if I may, the high cost of generation, obviously motivates the exclusion of this technology. And we're getting it straight, we're getting it straight, huh? Miri, we haven't talked more than once about the nuclear tax, have we? The government and the totality of the country must compromise, without doubt, with the future of some territories, let me also say that they have been extremely supportive, extremely generous for decades, combining these installations and producing a very important part of the electricity consumed by our country. We are aware that the impact of the shutdown of these nuclear power stations will also involve some socio-economic, dubious hardships in the municipalities of these regions of the Priorat, the municipalities of the Lower Camp, the Upper Land, the Lower Ribera and the Lower Ebre, eh? That is to say, all those who are involved, therefore, in the Vandellòs and Ascó power stations. And how do we want to make the transition, but we are very clear that this transition, not just energy, the ecological transition in all its conjunction, in all its global, must be fair, I remind you that the government has already presented the nuclear transition fund, huh? , a fund endowed, in this case, with 24_million euros per year to finance actions of socio-economic development and of just energy transition to the areas affected for the future, not immediately, but for the future shutdown of the power stations operating in our country. The objective, therefore, is to take effective and effective advantage of this foundation to transform the region's production fabric, to obviously diversify the economy, and also to generate new job opportunities for when the much-awaited time comes for this nuclear power plant shutdown, which is still operating in our country. But we have more tools, huh? We also have Catalonia's energy outlook, the Proencat, with this 2050 horizon that tells us that we can leave..., in fact, the Proencat tells us, even though it is a living document, which has been updated. But what we were presenting a few weeks ago tells us that we can just abandon this current energetic, fossil and nuclear model and go to a new decentralized renewable model, which is what we want, what we define, and what is also the basis – even though I don't know if you like it or not, because that's why you haven't told me – in the empowerment, obviously, of citizens and businesses, showing that you can achieve a climate-neutral model by 2050, without counting, in this case, on these energy sources. In other words, for the first time, let me hide, this government has data, which is very important to know where you want to get to, and you know what is the way forward to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. It is therefore proposed to achieve the objective, guaranteeing energy sovereignty, a renewable energy system, the minimum occupation of the territory – this is also important; here too, in part, to follow this model, the modification that we were going to make last November – and some energy prices that obviously remain competitive. This scene predicts that Catalonia will, therefore, take over the climate neutrality of the energy sector by 2050, if it applies, that is also true, if we do our dues. Obviously, this is all alive, huh? Then, if in any case, I will also talk to you about the change we made in the decree last week, which the government approved, because we also agree that there are things that need to be accelerated. And as a result, any document he has seen is just about everything that we still don't do well, or that keeps things quiet, so change it. But in any case, we are convinced that we can achieve this climate neutrality with this model, following this path, if we apply intensively, as I said, all this set of strategies designed to transform the totality, in short, of the energy field, from the demand for final energy to the one that has also told me – the generation of electric energy, obviously passing through the role that citizens have. And I finish this first intervention, huh? In fact, the analysis calculates – we have also said on various occasions – the need to install dotze_mil additional renewable megawatts in 2030, and until approximately sixty_mil until 2050, to absolve precisely this decarbonized electrical system. That's the path. We know what the numbers are. There is rigor and we have the plan, and we also know how to do it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.223.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.224.0	Yes, counselor, good words, uncertain plans and few, very few facts. The energy matrix that we currently suffer in Spain as a whole, especially in Catalonia, has nothing to do with competences, of course. Rather, it is the result of the obvious incompetence of the responsible governments that this situation is being overcome. This debate – as I said in my previous speech – is essential. It is essential to talk about the current national energy mix, the situation of energy dependence that we suffer in Spain and its terrible consequences for the competitiveness of companies and for the pocket of the citizens as a whole, in addition to the excess emissions of greenhouse gases. The ideological positioning of certain political forces, among which are the PSOE of Sánchez, the PSC of Illa, the Podemos of who knows who and, of course, his Republican Left, Mr Aragonès, or of Junqueras, that kind of idolatry they profess for the environment merely rhetorically, without doing what needs to be done to protect it, is not the best company to seek and provide solutions to the composition of the energy mix, to the cost of energy, to the consumption and, of course, to the climate change that comes over us due to the lack of environmental protection. You, as an autonomous government, must exercise your powers. You, as one of the preferred partners of the Sánchez PSOE and the Illa PSC, have to negotiate with the Spanish Government the composition of the Spanish energy mix, in order to drastically reduce the dependence of fossil fuels in the field of primary energy; to boost, boost and develop renewable energy; and to arbitrate the best possible conditions for energy costs not to lose, as they are doing, our economic growth and social development. In this, in their negotiating capacity, they must demonstrate their competence; it is a crucial issue, with a direct impact on the future of our fellow citizens, on the future of our children and our grandchildren. They have to prove their competence, if they have it. Let's talk about the bill for the light. Let's talk about electricity generation, about its costs. Data referring to 2020, published by Spanish Electric Network and Icaen. In Spain as a whole, renewable primary energy covers annual energy demand in about 40_y_five_per_cent; in Catalonia, less than 20_per_cent of electricity comes from renewable energy sources. But, in addition, a source of energy as important in the national energy mix as is the wind..., twenty-two_per_cent of total production in Spain hardly has an impact on the energy mix of our autonomous community. In Catalonia, wind energy accounts for only 5.8_per_cent of the renewable sources used to produce electricity. But let us talk about a source of energy widely demonized by the ideologists of good thinking, by those who put their ideological vision, biased, to the reality of things and to the real impact on the economy, on social development and on the environment; an ideology of the decline that, in this field, has rooted both in the Government of the Generalitat and in the Government of Spain. Let's talk about nuclear energy. In Spain as a whole, the seven nuclear power plants that are in operation contribute twenty-three per cent of the electricity consumed annually, while in Catalonia it contributes more than fifty per cent, 54.9 per cent in 2020. An energy that – you know, counselor – according to taxonomy – you have named it – which the European Commission is advocating and which will certainly also support the European Parliament, is labelled as green energy. And it is with all the honors, because it is a clean and safe energy, that does not emit greenhouse gases, whose waste is perfectly manageable and has a minimal environmental impact, and with a safety rate much higher than that of any renewable energy and much higher than fossil energy sources. A source of basic electrical energy that brings the order of twenty_per_cent of demand, twenty-four_hours a day, 365_days of the year. In Catalonia, 50_per_cent. His Government was prepared to shoot itself in the foot and intended to shut down nuclear power, apparently within five years, without having the alternative in renewables much less assured. The PSOE and Podemos despise the negative impact on our economy of the closure agreed with the electrics, to the detriment of the consumer with the horizon of 2035. We opened that debate without the letters marked. The operation of nuclear power plants and, in particular, those located in Vandellòs, Hospitalet de l'Infant and Ascó, must be extended until they have reached the age of sixty years of commercial exploitation, while the renewable energy sources that absorb the impact caused by their closure are introduced.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.225.0	And finally, in the turn of the line, has the word Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.226.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Alonso, various things. Well, the first one: little treats, this was a costume that they had the Bourbons and I soc republican. I assure you, I have no interest in taking care of myself. Secondly, it seemed more, during a sitting, that it made a general policy debate or a face-to-face discussion with the PSC's partners, than, obviously, an inquiry with the Climate Action Advisor. I don't know, they'll be glad. In any case, you'll understand that I won't settle down. You spoke of the general interest before the partisan interest. Home, I buy it, but apply 'ho'. I mean, does he know what's going on? That we are already a little tired, most of this Parliament, of lessons, basically, from its parliamentary group. And, in fact, say so, I think we're good at not learning them, because each time they're smaller, you. Imagine we applied them, didn't we? I don't think that at these times, so, we could change or we could take a lot of the debates you're having, so you're putting us on the table today. The competitions. Look, I'm the Spanish electrical system... I can't change it. But you want to remember that, at a time not very long ago, they had strength, say, muscle at the Congress of Deputies, and that I know..., on the contrary – on the contrary. They have to be reinforcing or they have to do it to reinforce the old ones, to make the old ones. These oligopolises and this system that, until today, has prevailed and that we, that the government of this country, that this country will advise, with the maximum support that can find in the Parliament of Catalonia, in which we are working day by day, obviously want to end, because we want to return to this model, huh? , which I have explained on more than one occasion, this model that we define as a country, this Catalan model, distributed, above all participated to empower citizenship; we understand that citizenship, citizens and citizens of this country are not a lot of hectares, they are something else, and above all supporting this territorial cohesion. I'm not going to talk about nuclear again. I said so. I refer to the law passed by this Parliament, the law of climate change. And, well, you can explain to us all the bonds you want about nuclear power. There's a law and we'll apply it. But, obviously, we have to make deures, and many deures– many deures–, obviously, we are very conscious. It is said on various occasions that we are the last, obviously, community of the Spanish State in renewable and wind energy; it is said many times. In fact, I explain, by active and passive, that, in fact, we come – and this cannot be denied – by the ten years of a long history of renewables in our country. We come from a moment where the territory – and this cannot be denied – was, therefore, absolutely on fire. That now we have loving, not on fire, this is a reality, Mr. Alonso. And, besides, we were in a moment with a speculative cylinder, let's say that obvious, huh? But we're on a climate emergency. And it's obvious that before this situation, what we couldn't do was stop for a second. And that's what we did. That's what we did, huh? And we understand, we understand that the modification of the law decree was, to be sure, the first step in laying the foundations for this new energy model, which I will not repeat to you what it is. Not just to change fossil resources, huh? That is to say, it was also to change these energy resources from fossils to renewables; of course it is – of course it is. But also to change or to transform the model from dalt down, huh? To complete the 2030 goals and to decarbonize our country by 2050. Miri, respect the dice. I'm saying, 'cause I'm already a little tired of being vagrant repeating this mantra. That we've got a lot of work to do, huh? And what we've been through... The other day we did, so – and I've also explained it on some occasion – the balance of these first six months of decree, with this 2030 horizon, with a lot of work that we obviously have ahead of us. And we explained that at these times, to public information last June, there were sixty megawatts and at these times, the day we made the presentation, we talked about 1,200; today, I tell you that we have 1,320, but in any case there is a lot of way to go. But, look, if we're talking about so much of the renewable power of each territory of the State over total renewables, in this case, I'm talking, in general, huh? , of renewable photovoltaic and wind, so let's not go to the cove of the Spanish State. Of course we're not doing well. Let's go to the back of Castella and Lleó. We're going after Andalusia. We're after Galicia, Castella - la Manxa, Aragó, Extremadura and then Catalonia, huh? I mean, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, new, god, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen communities, thirteen communities behind us. That's not a winch either. It doesn't go from who's last or from who's first. This is because we have models, we have data, we know how to do it. And there is no doubt, Mr Alonso, that without nuclear power, because this Parliament has determined this, we in this country will be able to get out of it with all the measures, obviously, that must be renewed, that must be examined, that must be reviewed, but in any case, following this energetic model distributed, decentralized, transformative of the economy and society; a model that we understand to be democratic and, obviously, participative and with territorial cohesion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-05-25-3101.227.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. So we suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you.
