ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.1.0	Very good morning, we resume the session on the new agenda, the question to the Government on the situation of education, which the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can present. [[Question to the Government on the situation of education]] [[300-00140/13]] You have the word, to give you the presentation, Mr. Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.2.0	Thank you, President. Good day, deputies and deputies; councillor. We are here and want to start by remembering the six_per_cent in GDP in education; the second element, the reversal of the detail; the reduction of structural ratios; the closure of public school groups; the withdrawal of the order of the school calendar; the non to the new curriculum of these forms; a public and quality vocational training, with equal pay; the real stability of the staff concerned, and the stability pact; the assumption of departmental responsibilities in the defence of linguistic immersion, and the real negotiation and resignation of the councillor. These are the points that the educational community has put on the table, with a vagueness without precedent in the last thirty years in the world of education; a vague unity of all unions, without cracks; a vagueness that has been an obvious success, both in participation and in mobilization: thousands of teachers, teachers, students, teachers, families, demonstrations in Barcelona, Tarragona, Manresa, Lleida, Girona, Tortosa, and many other cities in Catalonia. And if all this has happened it has been because the educational community is at the limit; at the limit for the pandemic, at the limit for the retail, and also at the limit for its attitude: an inflexible attitude, an arrogant attitude and a little dialogueal attitude. And also a constant improvisation in his management during this first year of the legislature. For a year you have been a counselor who has lost all the educational community, and especially the faculty. And that's why we're in this room without precedents to the world of education. I've told you many times from this Faristol, which dialogues, which I don't impose. And it's obvious that this wasn't like that. Where is the pedagogical criteria for decision making? Or where's the consent? Because it is obvious that all professionals with pedagogical criteria and the majority of the educational community are in the street, claiming their resignation. In these moments he has so little support that even the whole world of education wanted to jump as the interlocutor, passing directly to the President of the Generality, who certainly took the photo at his side announcing the school calendar, and who disappeared in this crisis on education, assuming, seems to be, behind him, even though it is the most important crisis of education in the last few years. We think this space could have been avoided. And if we're where we are now, that's the way we do it. And, certainly – and I recognize it – during these last few days he has lowered the whole, he has made sure to negotiate. Even to our group and some other group he shouted at us to gather us. But let's see how it ends, because after I turn on – if I may say so – thousands of people and teachers, to whom I have donated the skeleton for a year, we don't know how this gap that we have on the table will end. And if we go into the matter and talk more concretely, I want to ask you for various considerations so that you can unlock the situation where we are. Because they depend on what you do these days, on the agreements you reach, our group will ask you to resign and ask you to step down, if there is no solution. About the school calendar. It's a moratoria. It has to be done well and with consent. And there's a moratorium that the Catalan School Council and the educational community are asking for. In these moments there is only uncertainty, quickness, improvisation. You don't know how extracurriculars will be guaranteed; conciliation; you haven't spoken to the world of reading – the other day we were given to the Education Commission –; who it will affect; what way – many questions –; whether it will generate more inequality depending on how it applies. And, therefore, we ask you to reflect, that you stop the engines and pact with the educational community this important measure. About the resume. It is clear that the additional five-year provision obliges the educational administrations to implement the modifications to the curriculum of the first and third courses, after the entry into force of LOMLOE – that is, obviously – a law voted for the Republican Left, its party. But only in Catalonia is the place where this rebuy occurred. This rebroadcast we understand has occurred because since the Government of the Generality it has not been correctly accompanied by this change of résumé. You have announced that the autonomous management hours of the centres will allow these hours to be left as they are; but what will happen to the others? This is generating a lot of insecurity. And leaving to the choice of centers the curriculum that will apply also implies, or may imply the promotion of inequality. Why, who are the centers that may find it difficult to apply these changes? So, as always, those who have fewer resources. And, therefore, we ask you that there really is a follow-up, in this change of curricula, information, with real participation and, above all, with resources, because it is totally important. And on the curriculum, and in this case of battling, fifteen days ago, in a motion from another group with regard to education, the spokesman of his group, from Esquerra Republicana, told all opposition groups that they had not agreed with parliamentary groups with regard to the curriculum, which they had to do with the educational community. And what has happened during these days is that the batting teachers of this country have known what the batting curriculum would be like through a diptych at the Teaching Hall, which has also shown, right? , that things didn't work out, because first they were explaining themselves to a teaching room that they were dealing with with their own educational community. So it's not that I don't talk to opposition groups, but I don't talk to the next world of education. And we follow, because another very important issue, obviously, are the professionals, the anime, in this sense, of the education system, such as teachers, teachers and teachers. And here, too, the question we ask you is, are we taking care of them? Are you taking care of them or are you or are you losing them? And there's a whole series of claims about the retail and labor rights of these last few years, which are also very important. And here we also want to say that yes, that we have facilitated the approval of the assumptions, but this is not, much less, a white card. And we also have to tell you that who has to negotiate resources for education within the government is their department and, therefore, not a parliamentary group. And here there are many setbacks, such as the conversion of the third day into half-days, such as the return of the lectural character of the two hours of reduction of major staff of fifty-five years, such as the increase of personnel of direct attention to the student, such as the recovery of the lost acquired power, including the recognition of the first stage of new to six years, or the restoration of the lectural schedule prior to the retailing, for all staff. And also, in relation to teaching, it is obvious that one of the problems we have in the world of education is the stability, the stability of the staff, that it is obvious that it can end the temporality of the entire public sector and also, obviously, of the world of education. What cannot be is that there are teachers or interim and interim teachers who have a place for more than two years, of these characteristics. And here we also ask you – and you know it, that we have told you many times – that as a clear calendar, granted, agreed with the educational community, to captivate this situation that we have been running for years. And we ask him if they're planning to do it, if they're planning to make it, if they've made it, and in what situation we are. Therefore, there are many proposals, many demands, many questions that we have, which obviously concern us. And with regard to another point – then in the reply I will continue with others too – we also want to refer to the català. Yesterday we were kicking or we were living in a vacant place. And here we also ask, obviously, that you protect, as your own educational community asks, to the whole sector, because it's obvious, right? , that the català must continue to feel the language of the vehicle. And, obviously, in this sense, you know that our group would also be on the side of the government if it really is doing the right thing, because the català we think that it has to be or must continue to be the vehicle language of our education system and that it has to be always seeking consensus. In any case, many questions. As I don't have time, I will be left with twenty-seconds, on the second return, to the reply, and I will continue to put other considerations on the table in relation to this vagueness and the situation of education in our country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.3.0	Then, in the reply round has the word the education counselor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.4.0	Good morning, President. Deputy Jordan, deputies, deputies... Deputy Jordan, I will answer all the questions you have raised. Indeed, he has made many proposals, many questions – we have many challenges to the education system – and I will answer it, one by one, all the issues you have put on the table. Before, allow me to do a previa– before, allow me to do a previa. I've said that on other occasions, I feel this way: we understand the masters, I understand the masters, because we have a tiredness, the whole society and also our masters. We're getting out of two years of pandemic that haven't been easy for anyone. And our educational centers, our professionals have been able to adapt what they like. They have been able to strip – this has always been done –, reorganize themselves, and have to apply health protocols to the service that schools are open and secure. And, therefore, they haven't been easy for years, these two last. And, therefore, I lay down to the master's hair. You also said: "We are still picking up details more than two years ago. And that's it: they're still picking up details more than two years ago. Actually, like the institute teacher... the one I gave him, huh? , from 2011 to 2015 I was in an institute– I have been in other periods–, and from the institute I have been sharing these details, because they were changing the conditions of the education professionals, and, in this case, also, when I was in the center, my conditions. I, from the first day – let's wear less than a year of the legislature – one of my objectives was to have a new premise; it was essential to start giving response to some of these challenges that you have raised. We must be aware – and we must say this – that not everything can be done now. I share that you or the different Members do not agree with the order of priority – I could share it –; in any case, I will argue and explain how decisions are made, always with the maximum information and always from the consensus. But what I have to say to them too is that not everything can be done now. We're wearing less than a year of high school, and not everything can be done now. I, therefore, must be able to mark a horitzó. We must be able, among all, to share where we want to go, to equitably transform our educational system. And from here on out, knowing the time we want to get there, going through it: one pass after another, so that we can get closer and go there. One _second reflected and I'm going to answer 'l. Change always generates uncertainty, always generates por; we have always found ourselves – we have always found ourselves. Doing new things brings you out of the comfort zone, and there are always resistances to change. We also need to be fair and we need to identify which part is opposing this resistance and which part you also see the changes and is joining the change; because that happens to us. From the first day – let's wear less than a year – we're going to reverse the detail and give answers to historical requests. You were referring to some of them. I took it, didn't I? I'll try to answer them all, and if not, then, on the second return. The first one. A paradigm shift – and this had never been done – we are starting a structural reduction in the number of children and children in the classrooms of the country. And the next course we start this reduction to the entrance of the child system 3. Therefore, the next course, with the entry of the child system 3, the ninety-new_per_cent of public groups and the seventy-three_per_cent of concerted groups will come out at rates lower than twenty-five, and the eighty-yes_per_cent of public groups and the thirty-seven_per_cent of the concerted will come out at rates twenty or lower. The concert is voluntary. Normatively, legislatively, laws of concerts that come from Madrid, and it is voluntary. And, therefore, we are also pleased that it has been incorporated in a good part of this reduction of rates. Therefore, we could have decided that it was not so; we could have decided, before a demographic we have fewer children, to reduce the groups. We haven't decided that. We have decided to maintain and increase groups and reduce the number of children and children per classroom. Conversion of thirds into mediums– you make reference. That's what we've got on premise 22. And, therefore, we will reduce the number of thirds to mediums for the coming course. And this issue, which is sometimes said to be third parties, "means – it is hard to hear – is very important for the organisation of our centres. Therefore, we will not make a master's or teacher's appointment with a teaching load lower than a_mig, even if it is to cover thirds– this is very important. That's what we'll get for the coming class. You said: "Stabilization of the seedlings. That's another topic. We started 2018 with thirty-four_per_cent of interinatge; now we are at twenty-i-four_per_cent. And we have a stability macroplà, which we're sharing with the unions, that what we're going to do is 2024, with this stability macroplà, with merit contests and opposition contests..., what we're going to do is 2024, we're going to have less than a ten percent internship at the country's educational centers. Therefore, they also respond to this demand. You made a reference to the past, didn't you? He's not on the spot, but like he said... FP. He gave the past course: it has to be the legislature of the FP. And this year we changed... Last year we found our requests, we acted as we went to find the reality – I went in as a counselor to the Mayan. And this year we're doing two things: one, changing the process so that all the fourth-grade ESO student has continuity guaranteed to the professional environment that tried to the middle-grade format cycle – that, as a counselor, is very important, and that had never happened, even though it comes to the LEC, to the law of education of Catalonia, of the year 2009 – and the other is that we would obviously increase, as it cannot otherwise be, the offer of vocational training places. Then there's another area that's very important for segregation too – that you didn't mention, huh? But if I may... in the realm of segregation, we have to make sure that the schools are not segregated from inici. When we have segregated choices, we bring in all resources, as many resources as possible, but they continue to have segregated choices. Therefore, we must be able to make a balanced distribution of the student before entering the system. And so, for the first year, the next course – for the first time in history as well – all the students we identify in vulnerable situations will be accompanied by economic resources, both at public school and at the concerted school, so as to make this balanced distribution of students in vulnerable situations to all publicly funded centres. It also referred to the theme of the català. Let's see. The Curriculum Theme – I make Curriculums first. Subject curricula. You said, "This is from LOMLOE. The ministry marks sixty per cent of the curriculum; LOMLOE's curriculums arrive to deploy the coming course to the odd courses. We make a first cumshot. With this first blur... then they say we don't... then I'll refer to the attitude to which you refer, but we have to rely on facts. The facts are that, before any situation, before any pedagogical measure, what we do is dialogue and consensus with the educational community. In the resume I refer to the fetuses. It's never been done before. We've done a participatory curriculum process with more than 850 contributions from the entire educational community. I'll tell you again, huh? : We have done a participatory process with more than 850 contributions. These 850 contributions, most of which were collected, have been to improve a first draft and to make a résumé with a definitive version, and have incorporated and listened to what the educational community gave us. And we're curriculums that will apply the coming course. So it's clear: it's us that we're going to apply the next course. Now, it's also quite certain that the application of these curricula, as it can't be in any other way..., the leadership goes from the educational centers. And, therefore, we do what we do: we enable all the educational centres that we want – which have already started in Catalonia in many centres – to move forward on this path of curriculum transformation..., we give time because we produce all the necessary debate for such a way as to pedagogically work these new curricula from the educational centres, from the cloisters, with the educational community, and we enable and make flexible this application of the curricula the next few years, with the rhythm that the centres consider opportune, continuing to explain our curricula. This happens because the management of autonomous hours..., the educational centers can use it, they can use it, they can design it to work for these areas of competence, or they can follow it for subjects. We'll find the directions; we'll follow the information and format you need. And then, if I may, because you also said so, and it's a theme we agree on, like most of the themes you've raised. In fact, if it goes well, we agree on everything and have the same objectives. And I'm now explaining that most of these issues are already..., or we'll give them a response or they're scheduled to give it a response. You refer to the theme of the català. You see, the first one I've done as a counselor before a feeling that obviously... anti-pedagogic and retrograde judicial interference. The first one we did, before a feeling that we don't like, as it can't be any other way, was to answer the court that the organ to which they were to address was the education counselor. Therefore, when I feel some time that they say: "Let the centers be unprotected. Listen, let's build on the facts. It's not as good as opposition – let's rely on facts. We made an agreement to protect the masters from the government. The catalá is and will continue to feel the vehicle language of the education system. And, therefore, what we do is to develop a standard framework that, or, in our view, the model of Catalan school, a model of political, social and pedagogical consensus, and two, our linguistic projects of educational centres have all the legal protection. And it's hard for me, because I'm willing to explain a lot of things to her – I've been out of time. Then follow up and do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.5.0	The word has the deputy Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.6.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Counselor, I don't know if we have the same objectives, but what's clear is that we do have different forms of doing. Because it is obvious that the facts are that at this time the educational community is on the road, it has called for a vague without precedent in the world of education in our country. And, therefore, I believe that a dose of self-criticism would be good for you and your government. Therefore, I do not know if we share, I insist, the same objectives, but what is clear is that the forms of iron, in absolute. Before I spoke to him about different topics, such as teachers' labor rights, instability, the issue of català, the application of the curriculum and the follow-up, which I insist on, beyond these questions... I also gave him the example of the curriculum of battling at the Teaching Hall; it is obvious that it was not done well. And the announcement of the calendar, which was made from a Faristol in a press wheel before, wasn't it? , that the own educational community knew me. And now I'd like to talk to you about other issues related to joints, reverse and inclusive school. And, in this sense, if we see that you've been running the trade union and the teachers, what we also see is that you're, from your department, trying to make decision-making at the gatherings, at the local world, on a very important issue such as zero-three and gratuity, which you promised and announced on a press wheel, also a few months ago, before talking to the gatherings, beyond the meetings that you know are producing in a frantically way, precisely these days. Here we must remember that the ministry established a three-year plan, through European foundations, to advance towards universalization and freeness of the first cycle of children. This involved the creation of 65,000 public places, approximately. But his government rejected this plan, because from the generality it wanted flexibility of criteria and that it was not only to create new places. And in the end, what we have seen is that you have announced this great measure, with a great headline, but without making any effort, because what you want is that the assemblies also assume a share of the cost. You're talking about paying the cost of schooling and doing a general media, affecting all the gatherings equally when the costs are different to each place and according to the services you provide. And, precisely, your plan will penalize the gatherings that you serve best at this point in time at this educational stage. And we think that it's not left-handed, that it's not fair and, above all, that it can't be done at gatherings and much less with threats about reaching bilateral agreements with some gatherings, instead of doing it globally. Therefore, in this sense we also ask you to rectify, what dialogue with the assemblies. And we remind him that the assemblies have just withdrawn their aid on these schools a few years ago, with a government of Convergence and, at that time, also with the inaction of the Republican Left. And we ask you that the different variables that have presented themselves in relation to equity, quantity, universality and quality continue to review this aspect. Because, of course, universality... we don't know if it's really going to be that way, because you're talking about gratuitousness for everyone, but it's not going to be for everyone. And this will have negative repercussions on the gatherings, which are who manage this stage. Fair enough. Exactly the same. As it stands, we understand that it is not fair, because vulnerable families will continue to pay for zero and the first year, and, in change, families that may not be able to pay for zero-two will not pay. And as for the amount, you also know that there are different versions of this situation. I don't have much time, but in any case, what we're asking is that I review this question. The same in relation to the reversal. We need to get closer to this six_per_cent. The same with the inclusive school decree, which has not been fulfilled. We have a study committee and we are told, in each committee, that there is a great diversity in the classroom and that resources are needed to be able to attend to this diversity. And with the few seconds that remain, I say to him – and I insist, counselor –, once more more, that dialogue, that rectifies, that the educational community is in a short time, that it deserves to be resolved and that a change of direction should be made in its department, that agreements should be reached, that these agreements should be timed and completed. Let's hope he does, because, if he doesn't, we don't think there's any more time left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.7.0	And, finally, in the turn of the line, has the word the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.8.0	Thank you, President. MP Jordan, MPs, MPs, we always have to listen to what's going on and we always have to learn what's going on, because what we don't learn is repeated. And so, since it can't be any other way, things can always do better than you did the day before; in fact, in education and in everything we do to life. They can repeat the subject of forms of doing, of acting and all that, but in any case, we have a bit of objectivity on all sides. The one I read before, huh? : I understand that as opposition is added to the wear that can be assumed by a counselor, but I did not need anyone– I did not need anyone–, I did not impose anything on anyone. What we're doing is transforming the education system with a series of decisions that most of us are contemplating. Those who are not contemplated by the assumption, we share them with the educational community. For what he does to the calendar, we don't impose anything on anyone; what we do is, like the government, before four reports from the school board of the past few years, before a unanimous statement that it's a good measure for the students, we decide to apply it to the next course. And let's start the debate and the dialogue so that we see it unfolding in front of the coming course, always bearing in mind that the protagonist of our decisions must be the student and always with pedagogical criteria. Therefore, all the self-criticism that I want, all of it, but also convinced, and convinced, in this case, as a counselor, that at the moment I have not had a strong attitude, at the moment. They believe an assertion that they do not respond to what has actually happened. We made more participatory debates than ever, more participatory processes than ever, we asked – the first thing I did was ask our directions and our teachers with a macro-survey of information – more active than ever. He said one thing... the very honorable president never falls for it, I can tell you that. And, therefore, I don't know with whom... he's barging perceptions with facts. The Education Department will give an answer to the situation, as it cannot be in any other way. And what did he say, huh? Always thinking about what's good for the student. For what he does to the infantile 2.. , ugly reference to infantile 2. I'm worried about a little, huh? , who can make these statements, knowing that we have held many meetings, knowing that the amount of contribution for the children's 2 gatherings comes to the law of follow-up of assumptions, and knowing that what I have always explained is that we are giving answers, covering from the government the schooling of children's 2 families; as we are at schools: we are covering the schooling of children's 2 families. So, what we're doing is we're covering the funding that families are currently paying to municipal schools. And to the vast majority of communities – the vast majority of communities – what will happen is that they have more economic resources than families are providing to children 2. And a clear example is the city of Barcelona. In the city of Barcelona – this is published, huh? , this is published – families contribute, for children 2, 1,132_euros – this is published – and will return the Barcelona Assembly, in this case, 1,600_euros, like all the country's assemblies. Therefore, all the groups that do social pricing, on the contrary, make up much more money than families are currently providing for schooling. And that's gonna happen across the country. Therefore, before we decide how to govern, we have all the meetings that are necessary to bring them to term, we incorporate, in the framework of the joint committee, all the proposals that are made – we incorporate them all, the proposals that are made: guarantee financing, sufficiency, commission of follow-up for the purpose of analysing specific cases where I have explained to them not succeed – we understand that there is no reason why they can give the bait to a policy of country like this. So, Congressman Jordan, I'm telling you, you're focusing on a fact that hasn't happened, that's less and less the attitude of any kind on the part of this councilman. And, therefore, aligned to give answer to all the educational policies that serve, with the student as the protagonist, to improve his education, this indestriable transformation, always, of equity. And, therefore, they will find us from consensus and from dialogue to deploy these policies. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the needs of the public school]] [[300-00143/13]] Let's move on, then, to the twenty-first point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the needs of the public school, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, as you know, I am here today as a new Member, as the new Member of the CUP, a year after the beginning of this parliamentary term, for a political issue: as a result of the shameful politicization of the judicial system and the escalating persecution of independence. Today I am addressing you in this chamber, for a second time, to talk about the subject that concerns us: education. Yesterday, March 23, there was a new day in the field of education, in this case for the defense and protection of our language. Counselor, I am now addressing you directly, because from this new day you also have a share of responsibility. Yes, I know what will respond to this statement, that if this is a court decision, that if you don't have jurisdiction over the TSJ, that if I'm against that judgment, too. This got pale when they went out yesterday to take the picture on a day off. So if this is so much, and so much against this feeling, do something, show a firm commitment to the defense of Catalan language and shield the application of immersion. But you go beyond a simple statement of intent and armor to really català as the language to drive to all the centers of our country. If you have any doubts as to how long it will take, or lack of political will, then I will set you a couple of examples. On the one hand, we have the courage of the families, the judicial initiative that the families of the school of Canet ended, but also, as you should know, the Candidature of Popular Unity, to which I represent today, we have presented a proposal for a law that can be added, because we have the future of our language, our culture and our social reality. As soon as I finish my speech, you will have two minutes, which I would like to say that I am not embarrassed by empty speeches and marketing strategies in favour of the català, but without putting concrete measures on the table, because I remind you that our parliamentary group has put forward a bill that your government can add to if it wants to shield our language. I would also like you to try to justify the discomfort of the educational community with the fatigue derived from the covid. Because, yes, the educational community is tired, we are tired, but not of the covid, but of the management that its council has made of the covid: of the details, of the unilateral decisions that arrive before the press that to the cloisters and of the labor instability of the and the teachers. In short, I would like your intervention not to be full of typical responses as it has done so far and of marketing strategies with which it has proven to be very comfortable. Because if anything has shown the last few days is that from marketing to knowing strength, but in education, the advice that you lead, is not on the rise. He managed to manipulate public opinion and media discourse to make the people believe that the only demand of the educational community and the only one that matters to the teachers is the school calendar and holidays, when we really care about the shortcomings of our education system. It has never been for five days of vacation, or five days of calendar modification, but for two years of detail. The despotism, the lack of respect and the lack of respect shown to the educational community in the past weeks are not worthy of an education counselor. When he communicated to the media that he had taken the decision to advance the course guide and change its timetable unilaterally – because if I had consulted him it would not have been hard to finish –, he insulted all the teachers, to my incluse, because, Mr. Counsellor, he did say that I was in class and, in fact, even classed the children of some of the deputies of this chamber. He placed us, like at least, in the category of idiots, who do not know what suits us work or what is best for our educational system. You have marked a ‘all for the people, but without the people in full 21st century. The commitment of the teachers was here, and not for the five calendar days, which did not change anything. Because, as you should know, the education professionals will be joining the educational centres on September 1st, and not the 15th. Moreover, this change of five days does not cause any change in absolute in the better quality of education or in the better aspect related to the curriculum of our infants and young people. These five days only make the student pass from having eighty-five days of vacation in the summer to holding eighty; a significant change in people, which did not go beyond a simple marketing strategy, to respond to one of the most historical petitions of families: the reduction of summer vacations. But it's actually smoke in polite terms. With this change, the only one that guarantees is the privatisation of the late hour; it feeds the labor precariousness of monitors and light monitors. How will you guarantee the feeding grants on September 5th, if they are currently late and bad? The majority of students with special educational needs do not receive these scholarships until mid-October, when more than one month ago the school year began and, at last, they fail to cover the needs of all the students who need it. And now they're telling us that this course, and without any kind of planning, miraculously, on September 1st, the scholarships will be in place and assigned to the student who's near him. How will universal and free access to activities of late, to extracurricular activities be guaranteed? A historical demand from people and entities fighting against school segregation has been precisely this, that of guaranteeing access to high school, especially in a more vulnerable economic situation, to quality extra-curricular activities. But the government's excuse has always been that there was no money. Now it turns out that there is, and from September 1st this access to extracurriculars will be guaranteed for all the students. Because, as I used to say, marketing in strength, but to run the Department of Education, I repeat, it's not up. This was also demonstrated when, in the context of one of the most massive travel days of the educational world that occurred in the last thirty years, you decided to go out and declare myths true. He made statements of a genuine lack of understanding of the educational community. He said, without any shame or regret, that there was only thirty per cent of follow-up of the teacher gap and that the majority of teachers went to the educational centres on Tuesday, March 15th. But what he didn't say was that the high school teacher did follow the line and had a follow-up of a sixty per cent. More than anyone should know the nomenclature in the field of education and know that, when it comes to teachers, we address the teaching staff of primary education, and when we speak of teachers, the teaching staff of secondary education. If you don't know the nomenclature, you shouldn't be an education counselor at these heights. And if he knows it and, therefore, has used the vocabulary that he has most intentionally convinced him, he has done a demonstration of how to use the marketing to manipulate public opinion. But, as I said, I wouldn't like you to embarrass your two minutes with empty speeches about the defense of the catalá and about how much you value school and the educational community. So I will start asking specific questions about what I can argue about. First, how do you and your government intend to avoid the chronification and increase of school segregation with the great margin of autonomy of centers that this new curriculum provides? Do not forget that it is guaranteeing more than 1,000 hours to primary education of autonomy of centers, and 520 between first and third of the ESO, and 210 to quarter. And that means that each center will decide on what aspects gives it more relevancy. What will happen to the most segregated schools in the city's most vulnerable barrels, where the main need is the learning of Catalan language? The rest of the citizens and citizens will have the excuse for not bringing their children to them, because, now, they can say: "In that school only the català is strengthened. And my kids already know how to talk and write. What will happen to the segregated schools, with a higher rate of new students and at risk of exclusion, which cannot allow extra-school activities? As I was saying, will he guarantee it to all the centers? And what will happen to those schools with a great technological reversal, which could devote more hours to robotics, programming, space thinking? It will become a competition between schools to see who sees the best product: those that, like you, have a good marketing plan. So, I'm going to pass it on. And then, depending on your arguments, I will continue with my exposure. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.11.0	The word has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.12.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Nogay, deputies, deputies... No better masks. Permeti'mque... has placed on the table the theme of the vague. So, we..., me, as an education counselor..., I used to comment on that, didn't I? , the different reasons for which the collection of teachers and teachers, which is the nomenclature that obviously exists, has been vague. So we are, since the legislature began – because we were no longer acquaintances, because we had already met with the unions at the beginning of the legislature, as it cannot be in any other way – seeing as – taking into account that it is not possible to do everything else, because resources are what they are; as we are better off – we are responding. And, therefore, before many of these themes are answered, which are already scheduled, the decision is already made to go better and transform the system. Last week there were three days off, as we all know: thirty-three_per_cent of follow-up on the first day, fifteen_per_cent the second and one-third the third to the public, and a eight_per_cent to the concert. Therefore, it is also true that the majority of teachers went to school, and it is also true that the great majority of families took the children to school. But anyway, let's listen to everybody, huh? , only that a person has made vague, that a master has made vague, is important, perceptions are important. We need to listen to each other, we need to hear each other, and we need to move forward together. We have to talk about bridges, like they can't be any other way. And that's why I'm happy that this week there's talk and negotiation in the vagary committee. The Department of Education has never risen from the table – it has never risen from the table. There was a first meeting of this committee on Tuesday; today you said there is no other. I'll keep up with you as you're moving on. In fact, I'm following well as they're advancing these conversations. And from the Department of Education we won't get up from the table until there's an agreement. And, therefore, we want this agreement. We won't rise from the table until there's a historic agreement, they hold back all the bridges they build, with the measures that have a major impact on the studenthood and also, obviously, giving answer to the master's labor rights. You were talking about the català. I explained. I will explain it again – I will explain it again –: as the government, we fight with all our tools before a feeling that we do not share. So... you're referring to political will, but it's what you said before. Or, it's okay to say the sentences, but they have to answer, we have to try to get them to answer as much as possible to what happens. The first one I did was to go to court, saying that the organ to which they were to address was to the education counselor, was to the education department. We made an agreement, like the government, to legally protect our masters. And what we're doing, what we're doing is we're deploying a standard framework in decree format that what you're doing is confirming the Catalan school model and, at the same time, legally protecting the linguistic projects of our centers. You were talking to me about proposals from the law, I understand, that have entered Parliament. So, in any case, from different parliamentary groups, the task of analysing. We want the highest political consensus, the highest social consensus and the highest pedagogical consensus with the català. And, therefore, different parliamentary groups will be in the position. As education advisor, the highest political consensus, the highest pedagogical consensus, the highest social consensus, in a subject such as language, which is a model of success and thus has proved to be the last decades. Feather reference... he said the word marketing a few times. I've never devoted myself to marketing, I'm an institute teacher. I'm a professor at the Institute of Technology. I did engineering and so-called technology institute teacher. And I've done a lot of public management. Therefore, having been a teacher of institute – in 2015 I was a teacher of institute – and having done a lot of public management, from which I win the skills, as at least, and the attitudes to be able to do the best possible of education counselor. Tell me about the typical answers. But it's that I always answer what's said. I always answer what is said, arguing, sharing the information we have at that time, and, finally, with answers... What can we not do at that time that action plan, that concrete theme, that project? So argument why it can't be done at that time. I was talking... I was touching some concrete issues. If it allows, some concrete fears. The subject of segregation. It is very important, the subject of segregation; it is one of the priorities of this Government and one of the priorities of this Department of Education. And before that, one of the measurements, one of the paradigm changes in the face of the coming course. I'll do it again. He started in Barcelona with a rock plate three years ago. It is important that the schools reflect the student you saw in your bar and, therefore, that there are no segregated schools. It is essential that the choices are equivalent and it is essential that families triage the school according to the educational project and not according to the companies with whom their child will study. And, therefore, what we do – and it never happened – is to accompany, from the first student in a vulnerable situation, with all economic resources, so that you access in a balanced way, with balanced distribution, to publicly funded centres, whether public or concerted. It also referred to the subject of the curriculum. He's touched on the subject of the résumé. See, here... I think here we can have a different look. And I share and respect that we can have a different look. Because we don't understand from the Department of Education is one leader and the others execute. We understand shared leaders, distributed leaders, and trust our masters. We trust our masters and we trust our direct teams. And, therefore, what we are doing is giving answers with resumes, which is where all the advanced curricula of European countries go, and with much higher percentages than the hours of autonomy for which we have started. These hours of autonomy, in practice – these thousand hours that you gave – which are four hours and six months at school and four hours at school. So let's start a path. Let's start a path so that centers can respond from their education project to better education, with more meaningful, more competitive, not so much compartmentalized learning by subject matter. We focus on the formative and formative evaluation, with a formation that is useful for the student and a formation that is useful for the teacher. And, therefore, what we do is give an answer to what science tells us, evidences them and where all the countries go. We trust the masters, we trust the direct teams, who can define, design their curricula in function, also, of their educational projects. And then I'm going to answer the other questions I raised. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.13.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Nogay Ndiaye. Well, thank you, President. You said you're also a teacher, a professor of technology. I'd like to know how many days he's been in the classroom – he was talking about 2015 –; maybe we should know if there were actually four days or he just stopped by to visit the school. But, still, this statement that you make of technology, I answer to another of the questions that I'm going to ask you now: where are the letters in this new curriculum that you're proposing? Where are the social and artistic aspects? Because it makes a considerable reduction in music assignments, values, ethics; resumes hours of English, disappears philosophy as optional assignment to quarter of ESO; also disappears to quarter of ESO values and ethics. And, however, how can it be that, in the wake of a supposedly confessional state, the religious assignment, in this new curriculum, has more hourly than ethical endowment? Actually, I was talking about the inclusion, too. He defined it as one of his government's reptes and one of the aspects that most concerned them. Well, as you know, there's an inclusive decree approved and out of the past year. You have submitted a draft of résumé this 2022, for the application of the 2022 and, however, there is an inclusive decree of 2021 that should have started to manage, apply, get into operation and guarantee the equal access of all the students on the 21st, and the 22nd year has not yet been achieved. You have repeated in different interventions that it does not go of percentages, it goes of learnings. So you'll tell me what social, value learning, critical spirit, guarantees with the percentage of hours reduced from all these areas. Another aspect that has also been mentioned in this chamber several times – not just the subject of the curriculum and some aspects against which we position the entire educational community – is the subject of P2 gratuity. You say he'll join the schools. But it also says that the plants cannot be extended to the educational centres because it is a presuppositional game that they cannot now have. He wants to add a course to it, but he doesn't want to expand seedlings, because, clearly, in theory, there is only enough presupposition to expand seedlings for the reduction of ration to P3. But what about P2? And as other parties have also commented, it can't be that economic responsibility, can it? the payment of these shares falls on the joints. Another aspect that you have not said anything about and that might also be worth justifying your government. His strategies..., he says: "I have nothing to do with the marketing. So it seems strong, because his strategies have always been to launch globes with information in mid-days, to see what is the social rebound he causes and, from here, to rescind if necessary. The educational communities, the cloisters have not been notified of most changes before the press, but the contrary. But it's that, besides, there are many aspects that have not been covered with their new curriculum scrap. Where's the revocation of the plant decree? A decree that converts the direct teams of the public centers, that we pay among all, in the direction of the private enterprise, that they decide, by means of interviews or profiled places, which forms part and which does not of their teaching teams. Completely eliminates democracy in the centers. The cloisters, in response to this decree, have become major informational gatherings, in which the teaching staff must dance the water to the directions in order to lose their place of work the following year. Because, counselor, the decree of seedlings can be defined very briefly in three words: contracts said. So, in fact, I don't have time to talk about what I wanted to explain to you right now, but still, about marketing, I repeat, your proposals prove that you know a lot, but in the Department of Education you are still in the process of settling down. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.15.0	There's a word from the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.16.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Nogay. Congressmen, congressmen... before I... excuse me, huh? But before I had the notes I did and I stopped answering a few points and so I'm answering them now. It gave the theme of the calendar. What we do with the calendar is advance five days to school and three days to the Institute. You said, "That's not how it works. Of course not. To the education system, what it is about is to make decisions, shares, consensus, and these decisions all add to the practice so as to improve the education system. Therefore, I understand that obviously I do not answer anything, but it rationalises a little the fact that the summer vacation is so long. I insist, don't I? , four opinions of the School Council of Catalonia in the later years said: "The summer holidays are very long. We've got to get started before. We guarantee the theme of the feeding alleys – you also referred to it, huh? We guarantee the theme of feeding scholarships in these days of advancement, as it cannot be in any other way. All the students who complete the request have a food grant – all the students who complete the request have a food grant. It is an open game that every year, unfortunately, grows, because unfortunately there are more families than fulfill these requirements and therefore, as in the open game, all the students who complete the requirements will have a food scholarship from the first day. Then... now I'll comment on the subject of the classroom, huh? Well, it's not here to explain that..., my trajectory; but, in any case, 1997 was a public school teacher. Then, the last time I was there was from 2010-2011 – 2011, I would say – to 2015, I was a professor of institute at an institute in Barcelona. We don't cut down on specialties. There's a mistake here that they didn't understand. And we'll explain to them the times you need it. I'm explaining to everyone. Therefore, we can explain it to them; we sit down and explain it to them. We don't cut down on specialty, we don't cut down on specialists. What we're doing is giving it before: we're admiring the countries that are moving towards a flexibility of the curriculum to donate..., because they trust the direct teams, because they trust the teachers, because each educational center can make an educational project of a center organized for projects, for competitive areas, for meaningful learning, shared, transversal, more practical, more... And this organization is that, having all the specialists at the disposal of the educational centers, they are organized in one way or another. Therefore, the hours do not come out per matter closed of iniciaries, but are the educational centers that end up deciding it. Therefore, u: we do not reduce the specializations. Two: let's not reduce the specialists. And every center is what it decides. And we keep philosophy. I say that because he said the subject of this concrete philosophy. We're keeping philosophy. A first blur came out, because who gets philosophy is the ministry, and what we've done is keep philosophy. After that, I didn't understand about Infantile 2, expanding the seedlings. I didn't get it, did I? But in any case, the whole thing that we are doing is: with two agreements that arise in the law of follow-up of assumptions, we came back, after seven years of financing of the places of school bressol for the conjunctions with 1,600_euros more than the return of the years that had not been collected..., and now what we do for the next course, also with a assumption that comes in the law of follow-up of assumptions, is to guarantee this gratuity for the schooling of the families of the P2 according to what they are currently paying. Not so much in terms of costs, but in terms of what they are currently paying. And, therefore, the majority of joints – I insist, the majority of joints – and this is an objective fact..., the majority of joints have much more economic resources than families are paying for this course 21-22. Later, he was commenting on the theme of... but it's obvious, huh? , that in public schools the assemblies will keep, as it cannot be in any other way and as we have never said otherwise, this co-responsibility. You're obvious. How they keep this co-responsibility to the schools. And part of the cost, obviously, of municipal bressols, both to infantile 2, as to infantile 0, as to infantile 1, obviously– we have said the opposite–..., the joints there will continue to be present. And then – I have a very short time left – make a reference that I find to be a bit perilous. Follow him, decree of seedlings. The decree of plants does not eliminate any democracy at the educational centres, which does is to adapt the professional profiles to the educational project of those centres. And, therefore, what we have to age for is why it's done, as with everything we deploy, as with everything we do, a good practice and an application such as this order of plants. I'm done. I think you... you're easy, huh? , these phrases. I don't know who's on the market, but you're trying to find phrases of those that sound really good, aren't you? "Counselor Cambray is in the process of settling down. I think we're all in the learning process, and this learning, as shared and as women together, better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.17.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into residential and day-care places]] [[302-00112/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about residential and day-care places, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance presented. And it has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, good morning to all of you. The objective of this motion presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress..., we can summarize it in three great objectives. The first is to clarify what would be the residential programming in Catalonia: where we will put the residences, where there are places, who are the areas of Catalonia that are most tense or that have a greater demand for these types of services. Secondly, to ensure that, eleven years later, the Government of the Government of Catalonia places a totxo of public residence in our country; eleven years later, thanks to the European Foundation. And three, I'm referring to the way we inspect our residences. It is not tolerable, after what we have been through, that we continue with the same residential inspection systems that we have in our country. We have five years of absolute absence from programming to keep it, in the event that the government completes what is in Parliament..., to have, in two months' time, a programming that can give us a vision of what we will do in the residential area of our country. More than that, with this young man, it will be warm to complete the agreements that the government of the generality has reached with the assemblies, a young man who urges them to complete their own agreements. And we're here. Nine public residences, primarily direct management and which somehow solve this lack or imbalance in Catalonia between public residences and the majority presence of the private offer. It is to ensure that in those territories where private investment does not come up, the public investment can arrive, because we consider the residential system to be a right that can be assured at the conjunction of the citizenry. In addition, explain clearly the gatherings – the government will do so, according to this young man, too – which way they can participate in the Next Generation fund. This will be an important step, too, because these gatherings that take time to tell or explain to the Government that they need a residential center – day center, residential center or residential center for people with disabilities, who are still in a worse situation – may have the opportunity to participate, to present their projects. And three more elements that they consider important. The inspection. The inspection system, even the whole employer, said it had to be changed. We must go through inspection not only if the door is the exact size, the quality of the service we are giving. We must be able to inspect without warning, which is actually what the norm says, but it is not what it is. We have to be able to lock up, as some of the centers have often closed down during these covid-19 times, and be tougher in the demand of not committing hard faults that the law already contemplates. And, therefore, those who make bad management of that which is a public servant must be able to hold the penalties which the own law establishes. Rats. This was not an issue that, in principle, we had in the previous question, but I think we need to insist on the situation that we have of the countries. At these times in Catalonia we have the ration..., "the ration means the hours of attendance to the great people we have at the residence. At these times we have eighty hours less than the law makes – eighty hours less. I told them before that, even though you insist that it seems that this government has just entered and that it is new, we insist that this already brings a series of years. And one of the proofs of this statement is just this: the year 2017 we had the same hours of attention as the ones we have this year 2022 – the same ones – with a detail: that enmig has passed a pandemic. Therefore, you, the governments of Esquerra Republicana, Together for Catalonia, with the rest of the support, during all these years have made that attendance at our residences is eighty hours less than that completed by the law, in physiotherapy staff, in social workers, in psychology staff, in occupational therapy staff, in social education staff. And what we ask for, what we ask for in this young man, is that the law, the law of social services and, therefore, the reason we all agreed. Finally... I'll talk more about it later on, but I think this is a good way, I think, to be able to put a thread in the needle, to be able to have a new full road to try to improve the situation of residential resources in our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. There is now the word to defend the proposed statements, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Catalonia has a deficit of 9,045 residential spaces for older people, according to a report from social service managers and managers. This figure has been calculated on the basis of the ratio of international agencies to five places per 100 persons over the age of sixty-five. However, after questions to the Government of our parliamentary group on 31 March 2021, there were 11,540 registered grade II dependents and 5,716 registered grade III dependents. That is, a total of 17,256 older people on the waiting list. As you already know, in order to be on the list to access an old-age residential space, the person must be valued as dependent and the degree of dependency granted is collected within the service portfolio to access residential resources. This means that people must have a degree II and III dependency; leaving out of the social rights portfolio for this type of support, for the most part, all people with a degree I dependency, with the prejudice that this entails. For us, the need is much greater, despite the squares that have unfortunately left empty the covid. And it is that the report of directors and managers of social services compare the existing places in front of the places that should exist, completely obviating the waiting list, which should be added to the places that this report already says are missing. In your last speech, Mr Moreno, you commented that many people adhere to the waiting list without really needing it, in anticipation that, when your turn comes, after the endless months of waiting, you will be able to access it. You see, this alone is a symptom of absolute failure in the management of public places; places that are often administered by you in the localities where you rule or are coalition with Republican Left. And it is that, as we know, the two large networks run by the local authorities are the monopoly of former senior positions of CiU, Junts, Republican Left and of you, the PSC, in all those municipalities and deputations in which they are majority or allies of separatism. Mutuam and Sumar, all the same. You will see, you have submitted a motion in favor of public residential places and with the intention of controlling the private ones and those concluded by the Generalitat. And we agree on the need for quality control. What we do not agree with is the malicious inquisition, aimed at destroying everything private, to which you have us accustomed. We will vote in favour of one of the points, not all of them. And it is that, although we firmly believe that it is the responsibility of the Government to meet the residential needs of our elders, we do not believe in another point of its decalogue: profiting at its expense, as happens with those managed by these two macronts, who manage between you and the separatists in the diputations and municipalities. On the other hand, we also believe that private places should be auctioned to be agreed by the Generalitat, and thus to end, once and for all, the waiting lists and offer our elderly the public resources they deserve. And on that line goes our amendment. And I give them the formula. Do you know how much is paid in the Generalitat for a concerted place for a person with a degree of dependence grade II or III? Sixty-three with ninety-two euros/day. The government to which you give your hand, support, miman and accompany on its way to the destruction of Spain and, therefore, to the destruction of Catalonia, has in its hand the necessary residences; and not at the expense of European funds, but by ceasing to throw away our taxes with sectarian and ideological policies. You, instead of agreeing to loads with Junts and Esquerra Republicana on TV3, demand your closure. Only with this could 10,715 senior residences with grade II and III dependency be arranged and the waiting lists put an end to this. If you really are interested, it should be the next thing the president of his parliamentary group demanded in his meetings with the president of the Generalitat. And for that, I should abandon the servile and complacent attitude that we have seen in the PSC during this legislature. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.21.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.22.0	Thank you, President. From In Comú Pode, we have repeatedly spoken that speaking of great people is not only referring to residences, but to a system of cures that includes a service of care at home, community resources that facilitate personal autonomy. In a strong system of these characteristics, the residences should, in our view, be a more or, in fact, the last option, mainly intended for those cases with a high degree of dependence. Based on this premise, from our parliamentary group, from the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have talked about the need to transform the model of dependence we have, the mass focused on mercantilization and the little centered on the person, and that, moreover, the covid-19 has shown us failed and full of cracks, thus accelerating the need for change and rethinking this model. So, we proposed that we begin to resume the residency investigation committee, which this Parliament committed itself to resume, and it was not possible. We have a working group left that we hope will be profitable, but that will not repair the families. In parallel to this, during these months, we have been gathering and working on proposals for resolution with different territories, entities, venal platforms of great people rau de Catalunya, such as the Centre de Dia dels Cirerers, de Sant Joan Despí, the Centre de Dia Miguel Hernández, de Santa Coloma de Gramenet, the residence of the Xup, de Manresa, ab Badia del Vallès, Montcada, Ripoll, Cerdanyola, and many more than are in hope. Some of them have already signed agreements between the Government of Catalonia – not with a concrete party, but with an institution – and respect for the joint ventures. We've asked about territorial planning and it's said repeatedly that it's about to fall. And we understand that, obviously, it's up to this chamber to control the government's action. But one thing is to do this control task, and another is that the reason we're debating today is a reason that basically is trying to get the government to do its job, which already has to do proactively. Things as basic as publishing the basis for a grant..., well, from the Next Generation, because locals can access it; completing agreements, agreements and protocols signed in previous legislatures; presenting and publishing – a transparency exercise, right? – territorial planning regarding the inversion of residences... And all these issues should be driven and done proactively, as I said, for the government. And, in any case, from this chamber, we could kill it, we could look to deepen it, we could adjust concrete issues; but no, we're talking about issues as basic as completing agreements. And this is the level that marks our government action. Entering our agendas – that, in fact, we say that we will vote in favour of the totality of the proposal..., of the motion –, our requests are in line to specify some requests from entities, collections, families, above all, that have been the most oblivious, that they want to see, for example, activate, enable a channel of direct communication between families and between centres so that the Administration takes into account these complaints or information at the time of the settlement and the inspections, right? For another band, participation: rethinking the participation of the center's participation councils, worth the redundancy, which has more people, which has more families, which is more binding, also, its action. And something as basic as – repeatedly talked about in this chamber –..., which has to do with both the Next Generation funds as the compliment of the territorial planning agreements that we have when it is finally published, so they are really centered on the person, really starting to mark a model change. As Congressman Moreno has said, there are aspects that this young man does not include, that are left out, that above all they have to see with the roads, right? What's with this ration review? For what, too, the best of the workers' convenience? But, finally, it seems to us that... let us hope that, while with skepticism, this young man allows us to advance in the compliment of institutional agreements, in the demands of families and above all, once and for all, to guarantee the rights of the great people through putting a model that prioritizes healing and the rights. Because we're not just talking about management, but we're talking about rights: the right of large people living in a residence to be treated with dignity; the right of families to the right to truth and reparation; the right of workers to have decent conditions, when they were on the first line with working conditions of exploitation while trying to sustain life with a lack of media, guidelines and protocols. Let's hope this young man works so he can move forward in all these senses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.23.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.24.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, in this motion presented by the PSC, we talk about the roughness, the wide spectrum of our country's residences, a residential model that I would also like to recognize, in this case, the participation and involvement of the various administrations, to begin with the Generalitat de Catalunya, but also the assemblies, the entities, the third sector, companies that work in the residential area and that bring the welfare and quality of life to our great people. In this case we are dealing with many points and I would like to be able to get into each of them quickly, because we believe that it is very important to put in value also, in this case, the work that is being done from the department in all these areas, but also, in this case, these points of better, these contributions that there are. And, therefore, I also thank Mr Moreno for his willingness to agree on some of these points and that we can vote in favour of most of the points, and that we have nuances in others that prevent us from doing so, but I am convinced that we are on the right line. In the case of planning, therefore, work is being completed at this time, already, from the department, planning of territorial presence, of demand and demand for places; with a model, in this case, with territorial services, to be able to channel all this information. So that in short terms we can publish it is good news, because it will open the way to all folds. In relation to the signed protocols to which reference is made, in this case, there have been eight signed protocols, some of which range from the beginnings of the two-thousand years. Some protocols that we know that what they represent at the back is that there must be a later agreement in which there are the presuppositional and legal implications that there is at the back of a protocol. Therefore, the protocol is the intention to be able to pull it forward, that they will try to complete and that they will try to work, and so it is done from the department, but that we must bear in mind that there must be after the presuppositional availability. And we pointed out, in this case, that the prioritization of these annual protocols according to the planning that was in point 1, therefore, of demand and of need of places in the joint territory. The subject that exists in the case of the impulse of the new residences in the country's conjunction, I would very much like to place the emphasis on the introduction, because, in the two-month term, from the Department of Social Rights is published the bases that must be used in order to be able to offer the summons, that the assemblies of Catalonia we can enter to offer projects, to ask for projects in order to be able to build residential centers and that there are lines to the band of the assemblies, quantities that the Government itself can pose these totxos, which Mr Moreno said, and so on, that in this short time we can already start this wheel. And, therefore, this is very good news, I think, for the conjunction of the Catalan residential system. Therefore, this is a very good job, in which I would like to highlight that in the days that the department has done to explain the Next Generation and its application, it has already passed more than a thousand people to be informed. Therefore, it denotes the interest that is behind it, the willingness to want to build and to steal, therefore, to pull forward these initials that have come from the territory. In the case that it was about residences and management, that it is fully public, we have to be very clear, and at this point I would like to make it clear, that, obviously, at this point it is very difficult to do this, because, let's say, the contracting of new places, openings of new calls by the Administration is not simple. That is why we also bet, in this case, on the management of residences, as is the case in many areas of our country. In the model of renewal of the inspection model, in which there is much emphasis, we believe it is important to be able to talk about it. But here we disagree with the fact that we make a decree in three months in order to be able to, so just see what it is like to modify the laws that are behind this, but just what we believe is that we can work, and so we can place all folds, I think, to be able to work in order to define which changes are to be made, which surely do not have to be this modification of the laws, but what we want all folds is that the inspection system is as good as possible. Therefore, we define who are those areas that need to be modified and see how we do it. Some may require a legislative change, but we are convinced that the majority will not be needed. And, therefore, what we need to do is look at how, how we need to do it, to get to the ultimate goal, which is what we want to change. Also on the subject – which is a point in which... – from medical assistance to residences, we think it is important, in this case, to go tending..., and each time it is more so, that the meths of the CAPs enter the residences to do the domiciles, to say the least, from the residence. But also, in this case, at this time, the level of attention caused by the fact of having staff in many residences..., we believe that at the moment it is still a good service being done. Therefore, in general, we believe that the line that is working, the impulse that has been given to the department for the better quality, for the better service, for the better inspection, for the better participation of families and users is a very good way. What we need to do is go deeper, go deeper into these aspects, and if we can, therefore, make this jump at this time in the construction of our residential equipment and in the knowledge of places to be able to, in this case, agree with the rest, we think it will be very good news. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Bartomeu Conte.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.26.0	President, honourable Councillor, Members and Members, well, I agree with the Raúl Moreno that the motion presented is fundamentally different in three blocks, but surely in one we do not agree. We understand that there is a clear need to agree on the new places of residence – if you are working there – and, as the previous speaker has said, so you must know in brief. The other point would be the management of the European foundations, the Next Generation, for the construction of residences, but it also needs to improve the quality and conditions of existing ones – I think it is also very important in this sense. And the third point, we would say in a nutshell that we are talking about the rates of direct care professionals, which I think is important; a question that we were going to set ourselves up relatively recently, but I think that it should be worked on, or that it should be aimed at improving the working conditions of professionals and adapting them to the corresponding rates, right? Surely, therefore, we agree on the objectives of improving the residential environment. I believe that there is a broad consensus in this young man, that in the vote he will see, but obviously there are also differences, right? Of all the ways, we think, a little, like the intervention that the commons have made, that really another model too. It's very good that we're talking about these things, but obviously, it's clear that, more than the direct sequences given by the covid, it's not just the residential model, it's the combination of services for the care of large people and dependent on it, isn't it? In this context, we add that we have an important problem, if we didn't know yet, with the waiting lists. And in the previous legislature it reacted as quickly as possible to attend to coronavirus outbreaks to the different residents of large people and affected them as many public as private. In this legislature, we know that it is up to us to attend to and guarantee in an integral way models of fair attention and in harmony with the needs and preferences of our great people. And the approved assumptions also provide nine steps to fine-tune the waiting lists. In any case, it is also very important to know what people think to change the model. In the last few of these events, such as that of the Social Observer of "the Box", they show us that new people from each large group prefer to wrap themselves up at home before they live in a residence. So, what we're going to have to plant is also how we translate these quality data, huh? Because there are other complementary questions that are not raised in the dispositions of this young man – the desire of the great people of romance around him, as we say, and his home, as well as the need for support and cures. Therefore, we also need to deepen much in the Catalan system of cures, for which we also wanted to coincide with Mr. Moreno a while ago, in a very important forum, and which we also need to help develop. Therefore, it is unquestionable, not only in Catalonia, but also... even the whole family tradition continues to maintain a high degree of adherence that we have to make a bet for personal autonomy. Social policies therefore have this challenge of laying down strategies from optimism and creativity to tackle socio-demographic challenges. And, above all, we must expand and make an important response in these services, from the day center of Santa Coloma de Gramenet to the wards of Viella. Anyway, it's clear we have to go this way. It may reduce waiting lists, yes; it may build more public residences, yes; but it may also provide, yes, personalized attention for large people and create spaces to identify gaps and opportunities in the environment. So... in any case, also, comment that, among this system of cures, curiously yesterday we had a meeting with home worker assistants, and they tell us that I am dealing with prevention and, a little bit, with mistrust and the reason why it has generated among the great people, curiously at these times is that these services are less than it would be reasonable. Therefore, it also means that urgency is very important in this sense. And, in the working group approved on the issue of residences, I think they would make proposals that would greatly improve residences, and we are thinking about this issue, right? To conclude, therefore, from the Group of the Republic we are clear: we are betting on measures that wander beyond the construction of traditional equipment for the care of the great people; we are betting on a community action, with a firm commitment to long-term actions that in any case represent an oxymoron to the proposals that you propose, but that they represent a settlement of the services destined for the great people. We're holding the four transactions and the interview; I think it's very important. In fact, we only differ in one point, but I think the differences that there may be are more to different perspectives than to content differences. At least, I think it's important in this sense. Keep, for example, in point 2, in the "we always say it and want it all, I think it's worth it..., it can be an element of epic prose or poetics, but not for the politics meditated on. You talk about many legislatures. I believe that in this sense, therefore, we must also look at the present, and the present means that we need to prioritize between the growing needs and the missing or compromised entries, taking into account the contingencies with continuous expectations. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.27.0	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, when we read the motion presented by the PSC parliamentary group, the truth is that we were surprised, because we were very much in agreement with the essence of this motion. Then we looked at it well and we said, "Oh, of course, I can't be surprised because we're talking about the points that Coordinator 5+1 presented to us with a letter that addressed us to all parliamentary groups, and that collected, more than that, about a few-fifty memberships, among which also found their political formation, and ours, too. However, we are surprised that the PSC can put forward these types of proposals that defend them in such a clear, unambiguous way that it managed them directly from the public service, taking into account who their philosophy has been until now, if not in past times when they have ruled, or even now in other places where they govern. And I give him a very concrete example, because I come from Tarragona and the last gift they left us was a fitting one with this monster that is said to be DomusVi so as to manage a residence of great people at our house. That's what you left us, one of the many heritages in Tarragona, that ended up signing the commons when they were still in the government in Tarragona, and that my company in Tarragona, so now they're eating like a flu that tastes terrible. But in Fi. Welcome to the changes, changes that we are seeing in other committees of the Parliament, and that then, then, we will see if they really show up with proposals of law such as, for example, internalization of health transport; see if you really defend this direct management and this internalization of public services. In any case, we have been molested, but we have been silenced. And it's a silence in relation to the need to clean up responsibilities with respect to the shocking and terrifying image that left us the grave at the residents of large people, at the level of the Spanish State and at the level of Catalonia, with thousands and thousands and thousands of deaths, so, as we say, they require a clean up of responsibilities. The Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe said: "Infected patients have been abandoned in some states. And it referred, among others, to the Spanish State. But we can't turn full, it's important that these responsibilities are taken away, and we remind you that you, from the hands of the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, dropped the possibility of giving continuity to the commission of inquiry that we presided over in the last legislature, and that the companies of the commons, therefore, intended to give it continuity in this legislature. It was evident that our company Eulàlia Regant denounced, that it is this tripartite in the shadow, this republican socio-vergency, that in questions of continuity you go hand in hand because everything remains absolutely the same. For us, the working group that's on the table... doesn't seem to us to be the one we need. For us, the tragedy of residences with the covid has exposed the perversion of the model of residences that we have in our home, and what we need is, more than groups of experts, we need to apply the lessons, the sad lessons that we have to extreme from the pandemic. Let us learn how now, therefore, that ownership and management must be public, it must be a direct management, certainly, as they originated in their own country, but then, with a transaction with Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, and with En Comú Podem – which has surprised us a lot – so, instead of saying that these nine buildings or nine residences must be direct management, they say primarily direct management. And, therefore, here, with this word, they open the door to continue with the system that brought us to this disaster and this tragedy. In Catalonia, the eighty per cent of the residences, of the places – I forgive – are in private hands. We consider that we must remove the urps of these great corporations, of these great companies, of these voltorous foundations that are working at the expense of the patience of our great people. And in this sense, therefore, we will vote for a abstention in points 3 and 8 because they are not in this line. We think that the focus has to be on changing these large large people's parks for residents that are much smaller – that is to say inclusive, but equal – and the staff has to be enough, they have to have some considerable better wages, they have to have a stability like what we propose in our law proposal, and that it's totally different from what you're proposing. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a Madrid. And, lastly, the inspections, obviously..., it's a matter of time that the inspections are effective, and we proposed – and I finish – that when there are hard shortages, not only are they expelled or the concerts that have ended with certain companies, but they don't choose to be able to manage more residences again. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.29.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, then has the word to fix his position the deputy Joan García, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.30.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... So, to begin with, Mr Moreno, I tried to prepare this motion – that I already tell you that I think it is, at least from our point of view, difficult to vote against it; therefore, we will vote in favour in many of these points, most of them – looking at the inquiry that made to the Councillor; I think it is a good exercise that is always done, but in this case it was interesting. And today I saw his intervention – I saw the motion – and I found a series of changes, such as, at the very least of intensity, the time to defend, say, his social policies and his position in residences; that, on the other hand, you know that we have shared them many times, in past legislatures, with you. And I'll tell you why. It is obvious that the balance we have to make of the situation of the residents in Catalonia is painful. And that and the whole Councilwoman has said in one of her own, say, interrogations or in one of her interventions that we have seen in Parliament and in the committees. The situation of waiting lists is terrible. Programming and planning are or have been non-existent, especially these last few years. There is this tendency to say that when there is a new government, the previous government... everything that has done no longer serves. When the legislature is over, so it's all going to happen, things are coming to pass... this is going to be approved, I'm sure, or I don't know, but what I see is that these points were approved. Mr. Moreno, well, you already know how this works, but I think maybe some of these things aren't going to work. I hope so, counsel, that you have changed this way of working, but many times we have found ourselves with this. There's a situation that we don't care so much about, but I think it's important when it's no longer just about the places of residence, the places of day, the places of public or concerted residence, as it is– and it's also said here– which way these girls' concerts are being managed with private companies on behalf of the Generality. We believe in public-private collaboration, but public-private collaboration must be controlled, must be taxed. And we believe, in this case – and here we don't agree so much with what the PSC proposes – that the current model can work whenever we go into a debate about how this model of cures should be. We also believe – and we have defended this at other times – that macrocentres should not be the..., they are not the future of the healthcare system in Catalonia; home care needs to improve, especially in terms of quality, and also in the situation of workers' work rights at home, for example. We think we need to do a whole series of, like at least, reflections on the model of cures. And this is also important at the time of defining the future of this world of residences, which, I say again, is in a very complex situation. But we go straight to the police station. Mr Moreno has already said that the inquiry referred to a series of proposals. And I, of course, looked at myself after this young man, who certainly has this ability, I imagine, to negotiate, but who is fully dealt with by the government. So he makes sure of all the forms that are practically traded with the government all the points. And you were talking about if your government didn't make a series of things. And I got a few checks on myself. He proposed, therefore, two residences, construction of two residences; he proposed 2,500 residential places and five hundred day places. But they're not here. They're not here. So, always... let's say that to me, the one who takes me away many times from the PSC, as also happened with the commission of inquiry, that you gave it support to the last legislature... Certainly, Mrs Estrada, this committee of inquiry proposed it by the commons and citizens; it was two groups. I say that because sometimes it's not said or not known. Mr. Moreno defended that it was no longer useful and that, therefore, we say, this situation, these explanations that the Government had to give for its management during the pandemic, therefore, were no longer necessary. Therefore, we find ourselves many times with this reality: that they ask us some questions to finish a little report and then the motions are equal and they are still more when they negotiate with the government. Still, it's obvious that the essence..., and we'll keep the essences, that sometimes they're not enough, but the essences are like dreams: we can have them and they're also nice to think about and live. So the dreams you're exposing here, these essences, we'll vote for them, but I think we should go a little further. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.31.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, to defend and pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.32.0	Thank you, President. Telegraphically, thank MPs David Saldoni, Jess González, Laia Estrada, the Bartomeu Conte, the interview and facilitated it to reach agreement. And, as I said, quickly. Mrs Estrada, the legacy of the PSC is the heritage of the law of dependence, the heritage of the couples of opinions, the construction of public residences. [[Greetings.]] That's all, the legacy of the PSC. Its heritage, the heritage of the CUP, is to give, by active or passive, collection to assumptions of the Government of Catalonia that have allocated zero_euros to the construction of public residences in two years. [[Greetings.]] And internalization, cap – and internalization, cap. I say this because you give many lessons, but at the time of truth you go precisely with those who do not do what you preach. The Committee of Experts, which will be held by most parliamentary groups in this chamber, voted for it by you, the CUP and you, the Ciutadans, in September 2021 at the general policy debate. I say this because, in any case, who changes criteria are you, not us. Mr. Account, indeed, we are talking a lot about home care change – a lot – and it is necessary to do so and it is necessary to bet on home care services. And the Next Generation will give us opportunities to do so. And I hope that's the way it is. At this time, on the assumption that we have approved, in this case with the gathering of the commons, it is not possible to do so – it is not possible to do so. So, far beyond being able to go ahead with an SAD model, we'll have to think later, when we don't have Next Generation funds, how we assume the cost of this new residential model with which we can go forward. Mr García, the 2,500 seats and the two residential centers are from the alternate government's shoal that they presented and that they already wore, the following month of the presentation of this shoal, to vote in this House of Parliament. Therefore, this is already voted and therefore I have not translated it here. But I will make an observation: between what is possible and what is desirable, in this case there is a medium term, which is what I think we need to do between everyone and everyone to be able to offer to the city council. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.33.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to produce this middle, once the number 25 point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market]] [[302-00113/13]] We then turn to the twenty-two on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government on measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market. It was introduced by the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to advance, and has the word to expose it to the deputy Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.34.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Today we present our motion for the preliminary formation of vulnerable women; vulnerable women, those who suffer worse conditions to be able to develop a project of autonomous and fully dignified life. I want to remind you that in the two later years the severe poverty among women has gone from five to six percent. These women need support in order to be able to join the labor market. If they do not provide tools, it is to say, a pre-work training and a continuous follow-up while this training lasts, they will not be able to incorporate themselves. This will always condemn them to live on social aid or very precarious jobs in the submerged economy, for which they are always at risk of social exclusion. The problem with which we find ourselves is that the courses offered by the Occupational Service of Catalonia, the SOC, and other public entities are outside the possibilities of these women, because they do not have the minimums required by these courses. All in all, the regulation and mandate to make pre-work training plans and employment plans for these women is already included in Organic Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men, as well as the Catalan Law of Equality 17/2015. Therefore, it only remains to be wired to make an agreement that allows these more vulnerable women to access pre-vocational training courses. And I want to insist – I want to insist – on the issue of pre-work training, because we consider it a way to differentiate it from the training courses that already exist and that require certain requirements that these women do not have. For this reason, from my group we propose the creation of a pre-vocational training service that runs from the SOC and consists of an office that will have the following functions. First, an evaluation function, which would consist of various things. A protocol to detect women who may be users of the service. This warning protocol should be all over the network, all of you serving the network, so that you can get the women to the office. In the second place, some assessment tools adapted to diagnose the level of the women. And, in the third place, some content programs, skills and basic skills for training, which have to be used to mark some lines for the entities responsible for doing it. This office will also have a monitoring function. For which, first, you will have to determine the requirements, both for what you do to the service as for what you do to the training of your professionals, that you have to complete the entities that you want to access these subsidies, always taking into account that these entities are not only to be trained, but also to be accompanied. And, secondly, that it prepares a map of the entities and public services and other types of initiatives that they serve, that they give this pre-work formation to Catalonia, so that we can guarantee an equal opportunity to the whole territory. And, finally, this office will also have an insertion function. It will be necessary, among other questions – not all of them – to draw up a report to study the employment opportunities of the territory, covering, above all, those sectors which are most developed thanks to the Next Generation Foundation; to consolidate the professional certificates of the SOC, adapting them to the demands of the current market and also to these pre-training courses; to seek out companies with which to draw up agreements through which they can insert women who make the courses; to facilitate administrative management, both for women and employees. And from this office there will have to be a network of entities dealing with this pre-vocational training, which will consist of two phases: one basic training phase and another specialized training phase. Thus, we have planned to study the possibility of expanding the Acol scholarships, expanding the network, establishing a system of grants for the entities in charge of training, and also the possibility of guiding these women enrolled in these courses to benefit from a guaranteed income from citizenship. Let us hope, therefore, that we can approve this motion that will benefit the vulnerable women of our society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.35.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, first of all, Mrs Susanna Segovia, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.36.0	Thank you, President. We find ourselves with a motion presented for the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, which addresses proposals of better from the perspective of favoring the occupation of women in a situation of vulnerability. We argue that we will vote in favour of the whole motion, also with the changes that have been incorporated as a result of the negotiation and the transaction of the different items. We also appreciate the honourable Member's willingness to accept our presentations. I'll explain a little bit what it felt like. But we would like to say that, in the end, it is true that it is a young man who points out and that concrete things can be done to improve this situation, but we do want to make a context a little more structural, because we understand that they can be measures that go well to give response to an already very precarious and very vulnerable situation of these women. We cannot talk about these measures without talking about a little of the context that causes this feminization of the poor and this aggravation of the situation of vulnerability of many women in our country. And we'll make it clear, that's to say, if we don't take structural measures, we won't be able to end the feminization of the poor. And for us the feminization of the poor has two great responsibility, which are patriarchy and capitalism. And it will be measures that vagnate you to reverse the negative impacts that have these two things in the situation of the poor of women who could actually have an effect in a medium and in a long term; not in short, because we will hardly achieve structural changes like those that are needed in a short term. For example, we consider that the feminization of the poor in Catalonia has many causes. Some of these causes are the concentration of wealth, the precariousness, the irregular administrative situation of many women and the lack of public policies that place the cures in the center, that dignify them and that advance towards equality and co-responsibility. The concentration of wealth is the feminization of the poor. If we want to advance towards a construction of equality and gender justice, we need to develop rights that guarantee the redistribution of wealth and common benefits, as well as the redistribution of the jobs needed for life, whether these are paid or not. In this sense, a fair and equitable redistributive policy is also a feminist policy. With more resources, we can make policies that strengthen public services, that guarantee equitable policies and that enhance the opportunity of all women. Therefore, a redistribution of wealth is a feminist policy. But it is also that these policies are intersecting, that is, that they recognize all the reasons and all the causes that cause and worsen the feminization of the poor. Because the feminization of the poor is because of socioeconomic conditions, because of being a woman, but also in many cases it is made worse by the fact of being racialized, by questions of origin, by questions of administrative situation, by gender identity, among many other questions. Therefore, all these policies need to treat in a differentiated way these facts that exacerbate the feminization of the poor. It has many more difficulties, but many more, and much more risks of being in a situation of vulnerability a racialized, trans and irregular administrative woman than a white, ciscis woman, who has her papers in order and who, therefore, can access the different resources offered by the State and the Generality of Catalonia, in order to be able to regularize and have a way out, a dignified life. A trans, racialized and irregular woman will be very difficult, not to say practically impossible. Therefore, we must respond to the feminization of the poor with structural policies; with structural policies that, for example, suppose ending with a foreign law that condemns many women to a situation of irregularity that prevents them from accessing a decent job, a stable job, a recourse such as the housing of the emergency table, or even occupational training courses, as we have said. That is why we have presented a point, because one of the things that must be guaranteed is that women who do not have a NIE or who do not have a DNI must also be able to access these resources for their integration and to accompany them in the outcome of this situation of vulnerability. There are other things that can be done and that we have discussed, and it is that, for example, when the diagnosis is made or when talking to women to see where they can go with this training and this occupational orientation, it is not just your planned itinerary that is taken into account. I mean, it's not that if all your life you've been working on healing things, your future has to pass because you're better trained to do healing things. For example, there have been experiences – it has been possible to see through Barcelona Active – that women who came from an exclusion and vulnerability situation have formed in the area of the new technologies, have formed as programmers and most of them are now with a stable job and with a decent job. Therefore, we achieve the incorporation of these women in the new orientations, in the new policies of transformation of the labor market, new technologies, struggle against the climate emergency, so that there are women who have a future and collaborate in the transformation of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.37.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Tonia Batlle, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.38.0	President, thank you. MPs, MPs, one of the women's demands on March 8, and every day, is the struggle for effective equality in the workplace and, therefore, with the right to economic and social independence. These claims still have a higher degree of need when it comes to vulnerable women, which is what we are talking about today. We are talking, therefore, about women in a situation of gender rape or a situation of poverty, as has been said here – that obviously women have a higher degree of poverty than men –, risk of a long-term nature, women who do not have sufficient comfort so that they can perceive in their moment a retirement pension, single-parent seas, trans women, among many others. We have, therefore, the need to put public policies in the service of these women, it is clear. And with that I would say, therefore, that this young man is a very busy and extensive young man. But I would also like to point out that many of the aspects it deals with are aspects that are already coming to an end. This does not mean, therefore, that it does not require a repositioning of many procedures and many services. We are focused in a segment of the population with very concrete needs, it is clear, but when we talk about the SOC, from Juntes to Catalunya we have always shown ourselves very determined to demand a transformation of the current service, knowing, therefore, that it is a major challenge; a transformation that must also be faced to give response to the needs of the market, as many companies find, with difficulty in being able to grow up due to the lack of qualified personnel that they find in all sectors of our country. Specifically, however, today we are dealing with the detection, orientation, monitoring and formation of these women. As you know, the SOC has assigned the skills in the field of occupation, a service that is donated through the work offices, the appropriate centres, as well as collaborating entities. And we value, therefore, very positively the specific need to have a map of all these public services, as well as of entities, to generate equal opportunity and accessibility throughout the territory. We also value the importance of developing a protocol that makes it effective to detect these women. I would not wish to fail to mention, therefore, within the current network, that we have the specific services, such as information and women's services, as well as specialized intervention services, from the territory. Work in a coordinated way with the SOC, and do a very important job. We congratulate from here, therefore, all professionals, because they are much needed human resources. This does not mean, therefore, that we also need economic resources. We have a ceiling of €917 million for employment policies in different segments of the population, but also, therefore, specifically for vulnerable women. Help lines for vulnerable collections, but collections that are in a state of maturity, with 42_million euros. And also a recently introduced line, which is the specific for trans people. I would like to make a reference to the last point of the motion, in which they talk about the improvement of businesses that hire people in this situation of vulnerability. We can't vote in favour of this point. I don't mean that we're not in favour of what the concept is, but these bonuses, as you know, have to fit with taxes that go with corporate returns. For a band, when we're talking about a company, we're talking about a corporate tax, which is a state tax. For another band, when we talk about the IRPF, it is a partial tax given to the autonomous communities. The margin of normative competence that we have is very limited to this question that is dealt with. Therefore, at this point it would not be an application, it would be a question of asking the Ministry of Heritage, which we had already discussed together with the Republican Left Group, because it accepts, therefore, to make the request there where it corresponds, because we understand that this bonus has to be transmitted from there. This young man... I'd like to make a parenthesis in the face of the woman's paper. It has already been mentioned – the people who have preceded me – so the vulnerability that many of these women find, but I would like to make a specific parenthesis in which we would call it competitive bretxa – because we always talk about wage bretxa, but we also have a competitive bretxa – noting that there are many women who find themselves working in a situation..., disabling their talent; that is, they work in a situation inferior to the formation they have. And here... it's a professional potential that we can't lose like the country, and also among businesses. And these vulnerable women, as the company has just said, can also find themselves in this situation, and we must try to find qualified places that respond to their abilities. And finally, speaking of vulnerabilities, I would like to make a general reflection for society, which, obviously, there are companies and there is also the whole society in general that has to respond to this vulnerability. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.39.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, in this round of defence of the proposed statements, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Before I begin, I would like to excuse the non-presence in the follow-up of this young man, Councillor Torrent, who I believe has already transferred the motion to Congresswoman Lienas. Well, I admit that I am particularly pleased to bring this young man, because he made me come back to my time before I had the honor of representing the citizenry here in Parliament. He made me go back to my time of occupation technique at the gathering of my people, didn't he? And at the time of reading the young man's statement, I was happy, because I thought about all the better things I would find for the incorporation of all vulnerable women into the labour market. But what I actually found is a wide list of actions, proposals or projects that brought me directly to 2017, as I said, like the occupation and municipal training technique. In summary: continue with what is already being done by the department. The Women and Work report, from the fourth quarter of 2021, by the Observatori de Treball, points out that the female activity rate has a historical record, 75.8_percent of the women between seventeen and sixty-four years; a good one that cannot be cared for, six points lower than the male one. Let's remember that women represent fifty-five percent of the population that is up to date, despite the fact that we are 48.5 percent of the active population. And of these women, fifty-per-cent are now more than twelve months old, and up to almost twenty-per-cent are strangers. Vulnerability, as a key to the job market, in its majority looks like a woman and it's different. Any answer has to reconnect these two points. From the Republican Left, we have made it clear, and for that reason, a large part of the young people's points have been working on them for years, improving them a year later and adapting them to a reality that we need to transform. Yeah, so we'll turn it. One of the Government's first actions was a €917_million unemployment plan for the promotion of employment, aimed at the most affected youth, women and people over forty-five years of age, including helping to boost recruitment and training, also for young women, single-parent families and over fifty years of age, believing that up to 2,000, 63,000 serious women benefit from this plan. Entering the office, at the first point we presented ideas that would reverse his proposal and land him to what the department does. The SOC offers vocational guidance, training for employment and programs that combine training and employment for women with a vulnerable situation, and the transaction reflects this reality. As far as the second point is concerned, we believe that there are resources that work for it from different areas, but that we may be able to ensure a good coordination between the services of the whole network and also, yes, Mrs Lienas, make information campaigns for the network so that everyone can know it. With regard to the guaranteed income point of citizenship, the SOC has an operating protocol to improve the employability of beneficiaries and specific mechanisms for the situation of victims of gender-based violence who are attached to devices specialized in the subject matter. At all these points, thanks to Mrs Lienas' predisposition, we have reached agreement and will vote in favour. Now, the discrepancy is kept at the last point, we will vote against; a point, if we allow it, a hypocritical, shy and unambitious skin at the time of demanding to the State. First. One might ask: how effective are employers' bonuses to ensure women's work integration? As we have explained, the unemployment plan has already acted with contract aid. Second. You have to ask the ministry, not the councillor. The corporation tax is a state tax. The competition..., of autonomous competence in the IRPF..., the IRPF does not allow tax incentives to yield economic activity. And, finally, I think the state [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] It has many deures – and I finish, President – still pending. The first, the repeal of the foreign law. The second, the homologation of the university title of many of these women who, in the end, feel vulnerable. And I think the most important thing is its regularization, already. Because if these women don't have work permits, they're invisible to the regular labor market. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, Members of Parliament. Before I begin my intervention, I would like to send my affection and prayers to those women who, with their children in their arms, flee the war in order to safeguard their family. [[Greetings.]] Again, the Socialists are presenting us with a motion with an apparently well-intentioned title: "Measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market. Sounds good. Look, your motion can be summed up in three words: « sectarian, « ideological and « contradictory. First, sectarian, because they show us their desire to continue to confront society by collecting people and violating article 14 of our Constitution, which guarantees equality between Spaniards before the law. In VOX we talk about people, not collectives. We talk about equality before the law and equality in dignity of people. And we will not tire of demanding the elimination of any gender legislation that establishes differences between Spaniards, taking into account their sex, race or sexual orientation. Second, ideological. The reasons why they present this motion are not based on reality, but on their ideological and political vision of the intersectionality of oppression in society. You have lost the popular classes and now need another revolutionary subject to continue making leftist policies. They want to exploit women for ideological purposes, but they no longer deceive anyone. Do you know how many references to the employment of working mothers are in your motion? Zero. Do you know how many references to the employment of women with disabilities are in your motion? Zero. They do not forget their ideological triangle, with constant mentions of radical feminism, climate religion and immigration. In VOX we do not consider that women are vulnerable because they are women, but that there are situations that involve some kind of vulnerability in some person. That is the difference between your ideological and unreal vulnerability and the day-to-day vulnerabilities that we identify and try to resolve. That is the difference between society from an ideological prism, like you, and seeing society from reality, like us. Third, contradictory. Your proposals are in the opposite direction to what you intend to achieve. Do you want to empower the real woman? So stop victimizing us, collecting us and weakening us. Deputies, women are not victims, we do not belong to a collective and we are not weak sex. We are free to decide and choose good, truth and beauty, and we will not allow impositions on the way we understand femininity. So please don't speak on my behalf. His liberticated pretensions collide with his programmatic aspirations. Before helping women, they have to make it clear to society what their definition of 'women' is, something they are incapable of doing, as was stated during the negotiation of the infamous trans law. If self - perception determines a person's sexual reality, how do they intend to control that in the measures they are proposing? For example, its measure 1.a. How do they seek to identify women who are users of a pre - training service? Will the self - perception of the whole world come to an end? In short, how can they make a proposal to protect vulnerable women when they are not even able to agree on what a woman is? And they are also not able to realize what the vulnerable person is. Clarify yourself and then introduce us to something with meaning. In VOX we are perfectly able to defend the woman without facing the man. We are perfectly capable of defending women without discriminating against men. And we are perfectly capable of defending women without violating their freedom. And most importantly, we know what a woman is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.43.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.44.0	Thank you, President. Well, we think this week, in this plenary... it's the plenary of what-who-with, right? In this young man, we first start talking about who vulnerable women are, because women, people, concrete population sectors are vulnerable and not vulnerable. Vulnerability is not just identity or intrinsic, it's a situation. A situation provoked by a system that precariously and intentionally exploits the material conditions of life, that saw at the cost of maintaining and perpetuating this situation of vulnerability through, in this case, circuits of social and occupational services that give tools to deal with specific situations, but not to transform the material conditions of life in a solvent and stable way. The measures proposed in this motion are an example. Pal·liar without transformation. That's why we didn't submit papers, because it would be a theme to the totality of the initial text. And while the final text has improved a lot, it continues to feel uniquely and exclusively possible. And the possibility doesn't change. Women in vulnerable situations are, in large part, women in migration processes, racialized communities, trans and, in any case, women with precarious working conditions or directly without access to the labour market, women who, in many cases, are organized, trade unions and have concrete and specific requests for dignity and improvement of their working conditions and access to the labour market. Miri, Mrs Lienas, we have very different feminist views and we have seen this on many occasions. We will not find ourselves in the trans-exclusion or other types of misogynism, but I always have hopes of finding some trace of socialism and class vision in their proposals. But not. The women who are in a situation of vulnerability, as I said, in many cases are organized and have concrete demands – this motion does not shrink from a single one of these demands – such as, for example, the revision of the titling validation decrees obtained from foreign countries, which engages many qualified women in jobs for whom they are overqualified, unable to validate their titlings and, therefore, work in the field of service and cures. This non-approval obliges them to always be in the service of other population groups. The impact of the recent non-work reform, which leaves out the working conditions of outsourced services, which are scandalously feminized and which further underpin the precariousness of women in action. Obviously, the abolition of the foreign law or, at the very least, the modification of work permits, because the current conditions foster the majority of women migrated to the submerged economy and situations of abuse, rape and exploitation on the part of the occupants. Therefore, these women who are self-organised are now campaigning for the regularization of their situation. And I take this opportunity to invite everyone to sign this campaign for the regularization of five hundred and a thousand people, and actually these people can get out of the situation of vulnerability in which they are bound by the conditions of this State. The ratification of ILO Convention 189 and the application of the recent judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union, which makes it explicit that the Spanish State discriminates by sex – this word that pleases her so much, Mrs Lienas – 400,000 workers of the llar, by denying them access to cotitzar per l'atur and this derives in a social unemployment. What this motion proposes is ultimately to provide resources for private foundations working with the perpetuation of precariousness, in accounts of making a public bet for workers' demands and women's needs in a situation of vulnerability. In accounts of going to the vulnerability trap and transforming the situation with a perspective of non-repetition, it supports the vicious and lucrative business circle of privatized public services. Therefore, we will continue to propose to reinforce the itineraries of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, in order to adapt them to the concrete situations of each woman and to make a public and non-cracked bet for the pre-vocational training service. However, in a few other points we will abstain. But all that goes on profiting from the private foundations and circuits that work with precariousness and perpetuate this situation [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] She won't have – and I finish, president – our support. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.45.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.46.0	MPs, MPs, president... labor policies for women must always be able to plan from two perspectives, from our point of view. One is equality, which we must raise as a tangible objective to which we can come and which we must assume as one of the best policies of the best of our production system, in terms, many times, of efficiency and of our welfare system, including social protection; in terms of quality of life, above all. The second perspective is the acceptance of a reality, which is the heritage of a traditional model, where a vision of work per genre has been imposed, which has been one of the main obstacles to achieving the implementation of the first of the perspectives, that of gender equality in the field of work. And let us say that this second exercise is important, to understand reality and to know the history, as at least, of the 20th century, to know where we find ourselves today, in full 21st century, and to hear, too, many of the proposals made by Mrs. Lienas. You, Mrs. Lienas, speak specifically of the most vulnerable women; women who encapsulate single parents, women who have suffered domestic violence, women over fifty years old, etc. All with common characteristics: especially low academic training and no work experience. They talk about empowerment, and we share that, the need for empowerment. But we do not share the measures – at least those proposed here – so that we can achieve it. We believe that public co-responsibility for designing policies that fight to break the division of labour, so it has to be done with other tools that are, we believe, more efficient. You are also talking about creating new ones to help outsource social entities to this co-responsibility that must be assumed by the Administration, leaving in their hands, including, the content of the formations that help the collection of vulnerable women to access the labour market. Abandoning us to a network of forming entities is not the way. We have to take over from the administrations. And, in fact, what we need to make sure is that active employment policy shock plans, active occupation policies, work. You also speak in your mind of work orientation, of work intermediation, including pre-vocational training. Talk about the SOC. But it is that, in fact, we have a difficult problem with the SOC, we need to make a structural reform of the SOC. But I'm also telling you, get out where you want to go, because you'll have a lot of work to do. Therefore, many of the policies that you propose are the ones that the SOC should precisely do. We also agree with the better job inspection, it's important. Not just because of this, but because of other issues that we have encountered, related to the occupation and the quality of the workers, or, in this case, the working conditions. But here is when we stand, we find nothing else and we find that there is a very important issue missing, Mrs. Lienas, and that we believe we need to express: conciliation measures. They don't talk about it. I think they're important and basic to hear... and more so today, it was the National Day of the Conciliation, and more so. Conciliation measures are really the ones that have to break the traditional organization of work, because they directly affect the traditional social organization of activities. Conciliation policies effectively improve the employability of women, provide a framework for implementing other measures and change the ability of women to access a better quality of their work in terms of remuneration and stability. We want better plans of equality with businesses, focusing on the best that conciliation involves for these, in terms of retention of talent, better productivity, better conditions of well-being, or the quality of service. That's what the companies have to hear. More flexibility for men and women to access actual teletreball permits or policies. All these are measures, many of the measures of conciliation – we will not have time and, in fact, we have already announced that we will certainly present a proposal on this subject, on conciliation – which must help precisely the access of women to the labour market. More resources in other areas, such as child education; more resources against the infra-financing of the law of dependency. That is to say, effective policies to help access equality and equality to men and women in the labour market. And here we can do much or can do much, too, from the Government of Spain, and obviously from the Government of the Generality. Because – and to end – we do not deceive ourselves, beyond our desire and the work of consciousness that we carry out, the work of cures today is still in the hands of women. And conciliation policies, which are still much more than I have mentioned, are today the most effective in improving women's access to the labour market, as well as vulnerable women. Thank you, deputies, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.47.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of deputy Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.48.0	Thank you, President. Since my group, we have wanted to thank Congresswoman Susanna Segovia for the ideas she has put forward, which have improved our movement, frankly. And we want to aggravate, above all, the work done..., well, the flexibility of Congresswoman Batlle, and the work done – above all, the work done – for Congresswoman Najat Driuech ; I do not know if I pronounce his surname well. If you had not been for your bargaining skills, for your knowledge of the problem we were dealing with – that is, vulnerable women –, for your way of being and hearing parliamentary work, this young man could not have been approved. Therefore, it is clear that we have accepted the documents and have made transactions. Now, for what he does to the deputies of VOX and the CUP, that I don't know much if I make a joint assessment of it, because I have passed what I always pass to the Commission of Equality, which is that I have the feeling of feeling the same speech on one side and on the other, with different words. In any case, Congresswoman Lazarus, women are not vulnerable by themselves, but are vulnerable by a patriarchal structure that oppresses them. And Congresswoman Change, we don't have the same feminism, that's the only thing I agree with everything you've said. What is clear is that the things you ask for – approval of titles, foreign law, etc. – do not depend on this Parliament. And I'm a member of this Parliament. And I want to make it clear that this young man is not heading to some collection of women, but to all vulnerable women. Why, look, this is about trosing society into individuals, which Mrs Thatcher already did, huh? That's to promote neoliberalism; yes, Mrs. Change, that's to promote it. I'm telling you because our young lady has a lot of socialist stuff, and she has a lot of neoliberal stuff. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.49.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will have a place this middle, once the twenty-and-five-point of the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse and dynamism of the Ebre Lands]] [[302-00114/13]] Let's move to the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the impulse and dynamism of the lands of the Jews. It has been introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Common We can and to expose it has the word of Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.50.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, well, we are presenting this motion because we think that we should boost and strengthen the lands of the Jew, a territory with many needs, but also with many potentialities. So we think that the Catalonian Government has the right and has the obligation to invest and work for its development if it truly bet on equity and territorial balance. And, in this sense, we think that there are three great axes or blocks to act: the reinforcement of public services, the infrastructures, which pour years of disinvestment, and the protection of the environment, especially the Delta and the Ports. I believe that most of the parliamentary groups share the diagnosis of the situation of the Jewish Lands, but now it is time to come to fruition, it is time to mark a full road and to carry out many actions that are necessary to empower and make these districts, in the south of Catalonia, that have a sense of abandonment, have and have opportunities again. About the reinforcement of public services. It is clear that it is time for the Government of the Generality to commit itself to the construction of a new hospital, without further delay. [[some applause]] , which must be a strategic health infrastructure, but also for the economic and social development of these territories. It cannot be that the Generalitat plans us hospitals left Catalonia and renounces to do so in the Lands of the Ebre, as if they were a territory of second. That's not a waste and it's against territorial equity. The government, therefore, cannot go on with more ambiguity, and clearly it has a mandate from the Parliament to bring forward the construction of this new hospital that the territory needs and desires, as civil society is demonstrating. I take this opportunity to greet the members of the platform for the new hospital that they are accompanying us today. [[Some applause.]] And, also in sanitation, other elements, such as the regional hospitals of Móra and Amposta, need to be improved. And, also in public services, which is the most university offer. We need more degrees, more university studies, because our young people don't go out to study, and that, therefore, it is possible to fix the population to the territory and correct this inequality that has to do with the university to the lands of the Jews. The same with professional training: we think that there is an offer distributed among the four regions, in this sense. The second block, which refers to infrastructure. A determined bet from the government to accompany all the companies and factories that are likely to install in the Lands of the Jews. And this means guaranteeing urgently the expansion of the Southern Catalonia polygons of Tortosa and the Village, with the construction of the railway branch to connect this polygon with the Mediterranean Corridor. It may extend Gandesa's polygons, adapt Flix's soil and also accompany the diversification of the industrial fabric of the Seine. And in mobility, which is also a very important issue for the Ebre Lands, we think that it is necessary to boost the creation of the territorial authority for the mobilisation of the Ebre Lands, as foreseen by the Catalan law itself; to improve the station of trains of the Aldea-Tortosa-Amposta, a station that must be intermodal– it cannot be that when you arrive at that station there are no buses that connect you with the rest of the territory–, or that it is also necessary to improve the trains of the regional trains of the two lines, the R15 and the R16, that affect the Ebre Lands, some trains of medium distance that many times serve, carry trains that are from the metropolitan area, and, therefore, do not have the necessary customs. And I finish with the last block, to talk about the environment. Here we propose a pact for the Jew, a pact for the Jew that remains solid, that remains based on equity, on the cooperation between Tarragona and the Lands of the Jew, to progressively reduce the transfer that exists at these times for many years. We think it's the right time, it's the right time, in a climate change and emergence context. Therefore, there are many, the elements that have laid on the table. And I finish as it began, they said that the Lands of the Ebro are a territory with many deficiencies, they are a territory with a historical abandonment, but they are also lands full of future and opportunity. And, therefore, I urge you all to set a clear full path and move forward so that it is possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.51.0	Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.52.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... This motion from In Comú We can on the impulse and dynamism of the Lands of the Ebro, of the four regions of the south of Tarragona, in its initial writing did not follow the usual tonic of the lençol to which the group proposing us is accustomed. Fortunately, not in its final draft, the totality of the almost eight emena pages – up to twenty-six emena – on an initial text of only eleven points, which have presented, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, the groups of Esquerra and Juntes. But at the end of the day, we will have to talk about lençol, because the final draft, collecting the accepted documents and the transactions to which it has come, gives as a result a text that, if I have not unaccounted for, up to thirty-two points – meaning doubt, a good lençol. Since the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we have wanted to present papers and we have looked at the initial proposal with great interest. Personally, I did it because this is a young man who directly affects part of the constituency for which I myself am a member. In any case, we wanted to be curios with the papers submitted because we do not seem to want to make our case, as, in fact, it seems, the Government has tried to make submissions that were actually added, new questions that do not seem to be in the initial interest and intent of the proposed group. Also, from the point of view of the papers, this young man has had, sense of doubt, a lot of success, because to the two papers that we have presented from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans there have been added eight papers by Socialists and Unions to advance, three from the CUP, and, as I have said, no more than twenty-six papers – almost eight pages of sentient papers – from the government's panels. Finally, as I said, the eleven initial points, with accepted and negotiated items, have become the thirty-two points of the motion we are debating and then voting on. We have presented a message to point 1 that has not been accepted. This point, in its final report, has been dealt with by a group of Socialists and Forward Units. In any of the two versions, the initial and the final, our position is to give support to this point. What we will not do will be to give support to point 1.b, introduced by a government statement that has been accepted, a point where the government is complaining that it could not have deployed the eve of the Lands of the Ebre. From the Grupo Parlamentari of Ciutadans, we accept, accept and celebrate the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which addressed, even though it was in a very light form, the present Statute of autonomy. We share with the group proposing that the strategic plan of the Lands of the Hebrews, written in its day for Rovira and Virgil. It's a good tool, which, in the current context, can improve. Therefore, we will give support to point 2. Neither does it encourage us to give support to point 2.b, even though it comes from the government and does nothing other than to store its chronic inability to make policies that allow a better deal to the territory, especially the youth, but not only. Look, if you're ready for that, we'll never be done. So, first of all, I would like to mention the point that we have been dealing with the government and the group proposing from Ciutadans, and then the points that we find most interesting in the final motion. The second of our reviews, the modification of item 11, was negotiated together with the 19 Republican Left and Junts. We agree that consideration is being given to the possible expansion of the Ports Natural Park, seeking the maximum agreement with the governing board of the park and with the entities and administrations involved. Therefore, we will vote in favour. We also agree on the need to bring forward, as soon as possible, a new hospital of reference to the Lands of the Ebre, in line with which we have already defended from the City of Ciutadans in this Parliament. The Star of the Belt is overflowing, and must have a new hospital infrastructure. We also welcome the need to improve the offer of university training and professionally trained training cycles. We agree that we need to improve, and a lot, the rail connection. However, it is not clear to us that it is necessary to create the territorial authority for the mobility of the lands of the Jews, but it is necessary to effectively improve public transport to the regions of the south. That the plan for the protection of the coast of the Ebro Delta by the Ministries for the Ecological Transition and the Democratic Repte should be approved and expanded immediately. As if the Government of Spain had once placed the needle in the effective defence of the Delta, which was in a situation of risk that did not allow any further delays. Finally, we will also vote in favour of point 13.bbbb, one of the anomalies of this motion, which includes as transactions the modification of items of government groups; a point where the government self-imposed itself to execute the presuppositional parties planned in relation to the Ebre Delta. I've run out of time, but, as you can see, even if we don't support it in its totality, we're quite in agreement with this young man's placement at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.53.0	Then, and on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Mr Joaquim Paladella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.54.0	President, deputies, deputies... This motion that presents us in Comú Podemos represents an opportunity to be able to speak and vote on some questions that are important, very important, for the conjunction of the Lands of the Ebre. When we analyze the young man's text, it can be seen that he's like a bunch of themes, that with all certainty each one would deserve a young man for himself. I would also like to say that, if you had approved our presupposition papers, you probably wouldn't have planted this young man, or, if you hadn't, now, approved, the government wouldn't be able to claim that you don't have a presuppositional departure. A set of initiatives that once in a while approve and draw us years of desire, leave and lack of investment in these lands. That's why the first thing we have to do is see that for a decade the investment in the Lands of the Jews has been in the middle of Catalonia. An example is the investment in Montsia. The average per capita in the last two years was 70-one euros, while at the conjunction of Catalonia it is 215 euros per capita. Or the scandalous download of the inversions, from a four-per-cent norm to the High Land. They're the ones who need to remember that it's up to you to invest it in the middle of the middle. It may reverse this trend and demonstrate with facts what the government's speeches say. A lack of reversal that has represented stagnation, the delay in essential and basic investments that affect people's lives and the opportunity of life throughout the territory. The hospital of reference to the Hebrew is the clear example that, from having definite lands, functional plan and planning to build a new hospital, which resolves the needs present and allows to face the future with guarantees, have passed to years of detail, studies that never end. Let us speak clearly: there is no political will to invest in the hospital; if they can, not a euro. And, in any case, the least possible. Yesterday, forced by today's vote, they announced that the Faren had given it to the assembly. Five minutes later, he told the assembly that they had given nothing. Who's the truth? And, above all, what is the real intention? We need a new hospital in Ebreland. It's clear. There is an absolute consensus among the people of the territory. It is an imperative need, with which..., as imperative need is to promote the sharing of our public university medical students, accrediting the Verge Hospital of the Belt as a teaching unit. If we're talking about mobility, we can't obviate the Ebre's axis, which, unfolded, would have to vertebrate the four cobras. We also wanted to include in the transaction the C-44 between Móra and the Hospitallet. I'm supposed to connect the Ribera and the Upper Earth coffers to the AP-7, but it wasn't possible. We don't understand. Congressman Jordan, you know as well as I do that if we talk about water and laughter, we have to face the future with a realistic vision. The natural cycle of the water does not give to go further than to guarantee the sub-administrations and, moreover, to ensure a complete ecological to the Ebro that is also respectful with the Delta. The climate change and the decrease in rainfall make it necessary to face the problem with another look. If we want to solve the problem, we have to invest in infrastructures that contribute to the system more fully equipped. And that's why we need to think about the construction of the Cunit-Cubelles desalinator. So, just like that, we can face a future that could make you think of reducing the mini-transvasion. They're all very little realist speeches. Whether it's the hospital, the Ebre's axis, or the expansion of industrial polygons, it's more the extension of the eastern region of the Upper Earth to this region. The kingdom is the only real opportunity for the High Land to reverse a permanent situation of loss of opportunity and loss of population. Reg to the High Land is not only necessary, but it is essential. The future goes through the reg, and the redaction of the execution project of the sixth phase cannot wait another day. The councillor, in the inquiry, told us that the Upper Land had been invested 16_million euros in reg. It's not true. I hope that, as a result of this thought, it is a reality. Government groups have presented papers on the need for the ministry to quickly present the protection plan for the Ebre Delta coast. It's more of a trick. At the same time, however, they demand that a strategic environmental assessment be carried out when it is not mandatory, and therefore cause further delays. I say one thing and I do another. Manipulation and lies. Delta people don't deserve it. We want to thank Congressman Jordan for the deal we made when we got there. Many thanks, president, deputies, deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.55.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Laia Estrada has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.56.0	Well, this motion that you reflect, from our point of view, is the difficult problem of territorial imbalance that we suffer from like the country. The eighty_percent of the population of Catalonia resides concentrated in urban areas, while the 2.5_percent of the population resides in villages of less than a thousand inhabitants who occupy more than half of the entire territory. And, in this sense, the Lands of the Ebro are the most unpopulated land after the Upper Pirinius and the Aran. Depopulation, however, is the final consequence of a territorial imbalance that emanates from the very essence of the capitalist system, neoliberalism. And, in our case, in addition, we have to add the consequences of the developmentist economic policy that Francoism imposed and that autonomy continued and continues to implement in our house, stripping resources and trinxing the territory in favor of returning extractive elites. And the case of the Hebrew Lands proves it perfectly. We see it with the nuclear, the embassements, the transfers that were then made, and, more recently, we see it with the solar plate camps, the steep mountains of windmills and the new transfers that are also on the table. An economic policy that obliterates rural areas, undermines the pagery, harms the environment, and brings us to an economic fabric that is scarcely diversified, and, therefore, weak and that seeks to extend the life of outdated tourism models and macro-projects that are little different from the so-called ballads of the past century. The conclusion: we need an economic, political and social model change already. It also suggests, therefore, that it is not on the government's political agenda, nor has it been on the political agenda of previous governments. And the consequences of this imbalance are seen in the Lands of the Ebro, in the south of the Principality, at the heart of the Catalan countries, with bad connections, with lack of services, with unemployment... Pepet and Marieta already sang it: "From work always lacking, / schools are scarce / and the young man flees from Barna to win the garrofes. / There are no grants/ trains coming to the stations. / We don't get subsidies, / only cranes, wind farms, nuclear and golf camps. And today we are debating this young man, who was trying to give an answer to some shortcomings, hardships and emergencies, and who finally tried to give an answer to a lot of shortcomings, hardships and emergencies because everyone tried to start his political program. We had focused on a few concrete points on the points you raised. By sanitation, we could have also talked about primary care centers. We didn't do it. From industry, we could have talked about the need for the new businesses to be sustainable. By mobility, we could also have incorporated the demands of the 'road of shame'. And when we talk about the preservation of natural spaces and, concretely, the protection of the Jew, we may have incorporated the refusal to transfer us such as the Xerta-Sénia or the claim of the arrival of sediments and action up and down. We didn't do it. We focused on points that have been accepted by most of us. Of the three points, two of us have accepted them: that the new hospital, the imprecise new hospital to be made in the Lands of the Jews – that this is the basic one that is carried out once and for all – must belong, must be managed by the Catalan Institute of Health, and, on the other hand, the complaint that the trains arriving in the Lands of the Jews must be worthy trains, logically. We regret that we did not accept the CAT dissolution claim. We understand that this is an institution that we have to put together and end to, the same way we aspire to progressively reduce the transfer to Camp Tarragona. Let's stop saying "mini-transmission, as if we want to minimize espola; it's a transfer. In the same way that we want to reduce it progressively, we also want to lay down the progressive dissolution of CAT as the opaque institution, as the institution that is a caterer, a distributor, in short. And, in addition, we think that in thirty years there has been plenty of time to find solutions in this transfer. It gave the PDE a good part of the wealth and population of the Lands of the Ebre Marxen in the north in parallel to the canonades of CAT. So let's put it to the final point, CAT. Finally, the young lady is simple, she's kind. The most logical thing is that it goes for unanimity in most points. The problem, however, is what will come later, or worse: what will stop coming later. The Jews and Jews who follow this debate surely do so with scepticism, tiredness, full of incomplete promises, photos, press wheels only when they pass catastrophes or only when they are elected, of the type they follow. And many points will be approved, as I said, and the most curious of all is that, as has been said before, many of the papers are proposed by government groups. Why do they propose exams? They do, complement, develop what they've put in a young man like me. If you are ruling, why do you need to get a seat to ask yourself to do things you're not doing? We don't understand. And lastly, you're in the Madrid government. They also have responsibility, and therefore they also have to compliment many of the questions asked in this case, if that is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.57.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.58.0	Thank you very much, President. Before we get into the subject we are dealing with, I would like to greet the Jews who accompany us in representing the platform of the new hospital in the Lands of the Ebre. Thank you for following us. We find ourselves in front of a young man who asks us in many areas, in which I will mainly enter in some of his points, because in five minutes it is complicated to give answer to everything that goes away. First of all, I would like to make it clear that many of the territorial issues that are reflected here are actions that, from the areas of the territory, we are working together with the relevant departments, so that we can achieve the best we need. A clear example – and these are the fears of my people – is the Village bus exchanger, which, as a whole, we are already working on; the expansion of the Southern Catalonia polygon between the Village and Tortosa from the consensus; the claim of an intermodal station at the Village train station, or other actions of other municipalities that are also on the march, to be a reality. Also the tasks that, from the Department of Justice, are due to the end to the Poble Vell of Corbera, with investments of better of the space with much higher imports than they were previously expected. For what it does to the territorial authority of mobility, we have presented them with an idea to ask you to study with the consent of the territory, above all of the local world, that it is the ones who will face it economically, together with the department, to create it, something that we consider not to impose on us..., so as to ensure that there is already a mobility table that exercises these functions and does not represent any cost to the local world. You have also incorporated the message of the PSC calling for the unfolding of the Ebre's axis. You have always said that a high capacity way of unfolding trinx territories. They are projects of high environmental impact that you have always been against; surprisingly, they are now in favour. I would like to point out that the transformation of the C-12, which will last until the end of the department, aims at the better of the road safety of this road, starting with the better of the current road. Finally, and in reference to the new hospital Terres de l'Ebre, Together for Catalonia we have never given up anything, and we have said it many times. To demonstrate that from the Health Department is working in the best of services and infrastructures of the Jew, which require immediate intervention and precise planning for a future. For this reason, since the Department of Health an expansion and remodeling of the current Verge Hospital of the Belt has taken place, to give a necessary response, urgent and untimely, to offer a quality service to its users. That doesn't mean you're not thinking about a future. Precisely because we think in the future an action has been planned that can keep us a good service, with good facilities, until the inn leaves a new hospital. This project, which requires a few years before it's over, is a reality... and that's why, and because of the lack of reversal for many years in the territory, the work of the Star of the Belt is set to end. While this work is being depreciated, that we will make it between this annuality, that we may work a new hospital in the Lands of the Ebre, more accessible, and that gives answer to the territory for many years. A clear example of what I'm explaining is the True Hospital, where we've announced that we're going to make a new hospital, and we're also in the middle of a bid for the best of existing ORs, because day by day we have to give service and people have to give an answer. A hospital requires constant attention and reversal. For all this, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia will vote in favour. The Lands of the Ebre deserve a worthy hospital. I, for one, we want a strong delta, and don't stop hitting. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.59.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana, the honourable Member Maria Jesús Viña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.60.0	Thank you, President. Today we find ourselves in front of a Commune motion that may speak of the impulse and dynamism of the Lands of the Hebrews. The Vegueria de l'Ebre is a territory composed of four comarques – the Ribera d'Ebre, the Terra Alta, the Montsià, the Baix Ebre – and fifty-two municipalities. A vast and diverse territory, and, when we talk about it, as we talk about it..., of everything. And today, in the motion that we are presented, they only speak on the one hand, of the Lands of the Jews; they leave out the noranta_per_cent of the territory and the noranta_per_cent of the main themes that affect the territory. Because the problems of the Lands of the Jews are not only salvation and mobility, but it also seems that, for some, the only issue that matters is the Verge Hospital of the Belt. And it certainly matters, and a lot. I asked myself for last week's ceremony in the decision to take the Department of Greetings. We cannot allow the spectacles we have had in the past few days, based on press releases with proposals that do not exist; press wheels that are now called and then not made, that are deconvoked; communications from the Tortosa Assembly deny supposed proposals; proposals from hospitals to the Village... There is no way to market with the future of the Tortosa Hospital. We said it and we said it again. We must act quickly, we cannot lose a minute longer with the salvation of the citizens of the Lands of the Hebrews. And, from the Republican Left, we will support the decision that is taken jointly for the Health Department and the Tortosa Assembly. As I said, the problems that we are experiencing in our territories, unfortunately, are no more; problems that are not of this kind and that, to a good extent, are the consequence of the lack of investment by the Spanish Government and the desirousness with which it has treated our lands. We cannot talk about the Ebre lands without talking about the river, without talking about the delta, without talking about the Castor, without talking about nuclear or without talking about trains. Nor can we leave the problems of deindustrialization that suffer municipalities such as the Senia, Roquetes or Flix. We can't leave the necessary fit to the Mollo's polygon either so that you can continue to compete. Nor can we ignore the importance of democratic memory to our lands and the value that must be given to spaces such as the Poble Vell de Corbera or to the removal of the Franco monument. We cannot speak of salutation only speaking of the Hospital Verge de la Cinta. We also need to talk about the public enterprise Salut Terres de l'Ebre. We need to talk about the investments needed at the Amposta Hospital or at the Mora Hospital. We also need to talk about the rural agenda and repopulation, about the investments that we need to make in order to retain and fix people in the territory. We need to talk about regadius, talk about deployment of optical network, housing for young people, projects of aging worthy of our great people. I, in order to make possible all this development of the Lands of the Ebre, we must also speak of governance. The ruling of the Constitutional Court of July 2010 did not allow the presence of the Vegueria de los Terres de l'Ebre, and it could find other governance mechanisms in the cooperation of the four regional councils and the Parliament that allow us to gain transformative capacity in the territory. And that is why I have explained to you that from the Republican Left we have submitted twenty-six papers to your proposal, with the will to improve your youth, which we considered to be very partial; to incorporate everything that we consider to be relevant when we speak of the Lands of the Ebre. I want to put it in value, honourable Member, the facility we have had in being able to negotiate and in being able to reach agreement on many of the proposals we have put before you. But we also know very hard that in those items in which we talked about demanding the Spanish government, of which In Comú Podem is a part... They were items that talked about issues as important as the updating of the nuclear emergency plan of Ascó and Vandellòs or asking them to take the necessary measures to recover the compensations and costs paid unduly to the company promoter of the Castor. These tests have not been accepted. Nor have we accepted the idea to implement the transfer of the management of the tourist brand to a public entity of the Lands of the Ebre. We don't understand. The above considerations may have the justification for the submission of the commons to the PSOE on important issues such as the residue canon or the position of the Spanish government in the Sahara, but that of tourism we do not understand, because it is merely territory and knows that it would go very well to develop our lands economically. The Lands of the Hebrews – he will have to share it with me, surely – for the Jews and the Jews is the best place in the world to live there. And from the Republican Left it's been a long time since we worked to transform them, to make them grow up, and because this perception that you and I have it all. So, even though we don't agree at all today, I'm sure we can continue to build consensus to work for this territory that you and I feel so much about. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.61.0	Thank you very much. I, after the turn of defense of the papers presented, then has the word, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Members... The truth is that the motion for the impetus of the dynamism of the Ebro Lands that we will vote on today looks like an egg to a chestnut to which it registered in Comú Pom. Many amendments have changed the original text, in some cases for the better, and in others for the worse. Let's split it up. First, the four regions have been forgotten and abandoned by the successive governments of the Generalitat over the last decades. That's obvious, and it's not questionable. The lack of interest and investment throughout the area is the cause that in its fifty-seven towns and cities and in its fields and in its parks there is a lack of all kinds of essential services: sanitary, educational, infrastructure, communication, conservation..., deficiencies that affect around 180,000 Catalans. Secondly, regarding the initiative on the Hospital de Tortosa – welcome from the association – we find ourselves with a lie after a lie. A year and a half ago, the Department of Health announced that the hospital would be expanded. Today not only has not been expanded, but the government's debate is whether to expand or build a new one or both, whether or not there is a budget... We will vote yes to this proposal, because it is absolutely necessary and demanded by the citizenry for a long time, but aware that it is irrelevant whether it is approved or not. Because it is evident, and we see it every day here, that the preferences and priorities of the Government are other, more in keeping with their ideological delusions and far removed from the real needs of Catalans. With regard to the initiative in the field of education..., they are a toast to the sun. They lack technical criteria. They have not bothered to study what the demands and needs are. They speak only of medicine, and doctors are needed throughout Spain, we know that. And so I could continue to squander your proposals, but I prefer to use these minutes to talk about what we have missed from my parliamentary group. The proposals you put forward today to address the Ebro Delta are inextricable, are presented in a messy and crazy way, and do not take into account the recommendations of the Consensus Bureau. I do not know what the Ebro Lands Committee that created this Parliament is for, if you already have all the solutions to the problems in the area. Once again, VOX was right: neither do you believe the usefulness of this commission. Not a line on security measures, with the drug trafficking problem they're suffering. In what we have been doing for the past year, the Civil Guard has already confiscated three narcolanchas, not forgetting the degradation of many of its neighborhoods. Precisely tomorrow we will visit, coming to the call of the neighbors, the neighborhood of Remolins de Tortosa, space that is suffering from the crime derived from its multicultural goodism. Benifallet, Xerta, Deltebre, Paüls, La Galera, Sant Carles de la Ràpita, Godall, Ulldecona, Santa Barbara, the Pinell de Brai, Horta de Sant Joan, Batea, La Fatarella, Miravet, Tivisa, Mora d'Ebre... They are municipalities lacking services that you have completely forgotten in your motion. VOX thinks that we don't need any more chiringuits, let alone veguerias; that we are not prepared to end the nuclear energy, with which it is falling, and, of course, that we must stop squandering public resources on their hysterical memory projects. VOX will defend with nails and teeth the Ebro Lands and their neighbors, eternally forgotten. They will always have a loudspeaker and a political will to solve their problems in this formation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.63.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the first question we would like to move to the proposed group is the questionable utility of such generic motions. I'm saying, basically, because the massive acceptance of items coming from the government is a mistake, because it dilutes its responsibility. If it already costs them – in fact, it never does – to the government, to complete the motions that only have a point, imagine this, that it did not have thirty-two. In fact, we already know that what they're gonna do will be absolutely dumb paper. In any case, it's up to us to position us on what you're saying. And what the young lady says..., to the vast majority we will give support, especially those points related to sanitation – with the hospital as the key element –, investments, infrastructure, etc. It's the vast majority of the young lady, although I'm afraid I'll end up feeling a lot of paper. Therefore, I will focus on the discrepancies we have, which are three. The first is related to the reference to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which effectively limits things, but the next one does not. [[Some Members make some observations of dissent.]] In absolute – in absolute. And, besides, I'm not going to give you any examples. In fact, the veggieries, even those we're not enthusiastic about the division into veggieries of Catalonia... we need to remember one thing. Catalonia could have its own electoral law with evergreens like electoral constituency. It's that even Asturias, which is uniprovincial and does not have the political debate we have here, has a own electoral law with three own constituencies. On the other hand, here in Catalonia you have never turned to the vogue – Republican Left and Junts, basically – because the Spanish electoral law is already good for you. It's funny, this Spanish enthusiasm, when it suits you by numbers. It may also be recalled that Catalonia already has another previous territorial division, which was the district councils. The local councils, you and all of this chamber could dissolve them tomorrow. We'd be willing to talk to him. But why don't they want to? So because everyone knows exactly who's in charge of those local councils, which are you. This hypocrisy between the message and what they then do is extraordinarily radical when it comes to the province, isn't it? , which is cheese from the province. In fact, it has nothing to do with the Constitutional judgment. The province only has some constitutional powers that cannot be played. One is the fact that electoral constituency is in some general elections; this can't be played, but in some autonomous elections, I insist again, you could play it. The other is the existence of provincial parliaments. I have a good friend – someone will have to imagine who it can be – who is a politician of an independent party in the Lands of the Jews, who always said in debates that he did not like the deputies and he liked the old days. But he was a provincial deputy to the House of Commons for twenty-four years; if they get to please him, he settles down to live there for good. The second question we have disagreements about is the reference to minitransmission. Mirin, here we should replace hypocrisy with realism. Do you know why? – and here transferred to the commons reflected it. Do you know when the last massive extract of water from the Ebre River in Catalonia was produced? So with the Montilla decree of the same, network interconnection. I say it basically, too, because... – hey, an absolutely logical extraction, donated the same brutal of those days, right? But, of course, it's better not to fool anyone. They don't refer to suppressing the mini-transmission or reducing it, because it will go according to the people's needs, and it's better not to fool people with these things. And the third question, finally, is the one related to the monument. Look, Tortosa was made a legal reference – this one was legal and binding. It was not proposed by the People's Party, it was not promoted by the People's Party; but we, as a legal and binding reference and entry between the adjutant competition mark, moved, before the vote, that we would not achieve the result it was, because it was a legal and binding reference. Clearly, now it turns out that since what you wanted didn't come out, the reference no longer serves. What a way to discredit, first, the figure of references when they are legal, and, according to the question, it is also a warning..., at which point notice is given to navigators. We already know perfectly well that some people who defend referendums plant them if 'lshi gives the reason; otherwise, no longer serves, the referendum. Therefore, we cannot give support to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.65.0	Thank you very much. Finally, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan, to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.66.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I would like to thank the large number of items that have been presented by all the groups, which... some say it was a lençol and others, on the other hand, say, Mrs. Viña, that it did not affect all the regions of the Jew. Obviously, it is false, and the proof is that you were able to incorporate many of the questions you said. In any case, in the short time that I have, I do..., the Republican Left Group would like to say that the items that we have not accepted are those that relate – many – to the State, because it is certain that the State is not complete with the Lands of the Ebro in some respects. But what you can't do is use the state to excuse what the government of the generality isn't doing in the lands of the Jews. Here, as far as I know, we are in the Parliament of Catalonia and we are taxing the Government of Catalonia. If you are so concerned about the State, present a debate to the Congress of Deputies, or do so, in any case, Mr. Rufián. About the new hospital, two important questions. On Esquerra..., I have not been answered that they will vote, but what is clear is that the Lands of the Ebre have voted against it repeatedly. And to the Junts representative, who bring Greetings, if they finally vote in favour..., what we need are not only statements, but a concrete plan of action, a concrete timetable, that seek the lands, because the Lands of the Ebre deserve no more frustrations, in general, and, in particular, still less on the subject of the hospital. Therefore, act once and for all, because it is absolutely necessary. And I'm done with the subject of mini-transvasion or transvasion to the Tarragona comarques. They haven't answered us, especially from the government, what they think they're doing about this point. We think that this is a time when, with the climate change, we can set up a table; that must obviously be done from a pact between territories, from solidarity and cooperation. And, therefore, let us hope that neither in this sense do they escape this responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.67.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will also produce a substantial amount of time, this middle, the twenty-five point of the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Europeanist vocation of Catalans]] [[302-00115/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the Europeanist vocation of Catalans. It was introduced by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And it has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.68.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing a motion on the invasion of Ukraine, on respect for international law, and, in relation to our community, on the Europeanist vocation of Catalans. Much has been said about the Europeanist vocation of Catalans for a long time. The philosopher Ferrater Mora was already talking about it, and he was talking about that triple reality that characterizes Catalans, both what is the inexorable reality of Catalonia's personality and the unequivocal will of Catalans to be part of Spain, and also that Europeanist vocation, which I believe the vast majority of Catalans share. In this sense, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has given rise to statements by leaders of the separatist parties that we believe are targeting the vast majority of Catalans. Yesterday we saw Mrs Clara Ponsatí, former adviser to the Government of the Generalitat and currently a Member of the European Parliament, making a very regrettable speech in the European Parliament trying to put a Spanish-speaking, anti-Spanish message against the Government of Spain ; trying to despise, to insult the Government of Pedro Sánchez, with an improper aggressiveness and animating of a chamber of political representation, and, in this case, improper of the European Parliament. We have seen as leaders of the separatist movement they have tried to establish parallels between Spain and Russia and between the situation of Ukraine and that of Catalonia. It's just... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's just... it's... it's... I insist, I believe that this attitude is embarrassing to the vast majority of Catalans, and should cause the separatist movement to reflect on the extent to which they are interested in continuing to maintain this kind of discourse publicly. In the year 19, Mr. Puigdemont wrote articles in a_medium close to the meagreism, a_medium close to the Kremlin, claiming the sovereignty of the people of Crimea or the citizenship of Crimea, the ability they had to self-proclaim became an independent republic and, ultimately, the subsequent annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. This kind of position of Mr Puigdemont and other separatist leaders is part of the staging that separatism has wanted to make of Catalonia towards the world, what Ferrater Mora said: "Catalunya enfora, no Catalunya endins. In this case, I believe that these kinds of claims have only done, I insist, to profoundly degrade the image of Catalonia. That is why, in this motion, we ask that we recognize from the Catalonian Parliament that the European Union is a consubstantial part, like the whole of Spain, and irrefutable of the natural sphere of projection of Catalonia; both Spain and the European Union are areas irrefutable for the Catalans as a whole. We call for the unanimous condemnation of the Russian aggression against Ukraine and also for the unilateral proclamations of independence of both Donetsk and Lugansk – in short, of the territory of the Dominican Republic – and also, of course, of the Crimean peninsula. We insist on the importance of the constitutional right precisely to articulate the peaceful coexistence of a society. We insist that this constitutional right necessarily also integrates international law. And international law, of course, prohibits unilateral declarations of independence, which have devastating consequences in many parts of the world. That is why playing to try to disqualify the law, to try to downgrade the constitutions, to try to downgrade the rule of law, to try to liquidated, in short, a democratic rule of law as was done by this Parliament on 6 and 7 September of the year 17 and, later on, October 1 is certainly a very bad way of doing politics, and can have disastrous consequences for a society. I insist that our position today has other aspects, such as, for example, declaring that both the so-called Council by the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, created by Mr Puigdemont, for greater glory, ultimately, of separatism, are simply parallel institutions that have no legitimacy whatsoever, and the Parliament should condemn or declare illegal such parallel institutions. Finally, we believe it very appropriate to set up a commission of inquiry on the relations between separatism – in this case, the environment of Puigdemont – and the environment of the Kremlin, because only in this way will we be able to claim without shame the European vocation of the citizens of Catalonia. As long as Puigdemont and the company continue to embarrass the Catalans for Europe, we will hardly be able to keep talking calmly about that vocation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.69.0	It has the word now, for the defense of the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. VOX believes in Europe. Denying Europe is denying ourselves. Is the ideal of Europe proposed by Citizens, the PSC or separatists the only one possible? Are you only a Europeanist if you defend your model? VOX is going to accept their arguments, based on ‘ are you with me or are you against me? Obviously not. I believe that when we talk about Europe, many nuances can be presented, and, of course, the approaches I have sometimes heard in this Chamber are not in line with reality. I insist, VOX believes in Europe, but in another way; it can be posed in another way. What Europe do we want? We want a European Union that is a community of free nations that cooperates and joins efforts to achieve common goals quickly, fairly and effectively, separately. This implies respect for the sovereignty of each nation, with clearly defined limits on the competences of common institutions. We are betting on a new European treaty that will give back to the nations the leadership in front of the bureaucracy of a European Commission that no one chooses and that no one can control. VOX defends the primacy of national law over European law in matters affecting the common good of Spain and the general interests of the State. We want a Europe that is therefore concerned with the Spanish southern border; the interests of transporters, farmers, Spanish farmers, fishermen; the future of our industry; that respects the decisions of the Spanish judges, that respects Spain's sovereign rights over Gibraltar and that respects those who do not swallow their extreme political agenda driven by feminist and ecological lobbies. In short, Europe does, but not like that. [[Some applause.]] And that's what VOX is proposing. About the vile Russian invasion of Ukraine, I'll say six things. We have said them as active and passive, we have repeated them on many occasions during the last few days. VOX strongly condemns this atrocious attack on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Two, we demand that Vladimir Putin immediately stop the invasion, withdraw his troops from Ukraine and respect international law. Three, we regret that the Government of Spain is suffocated by Puemite ministers who do not want to help Ukraine so that the Ukrainian people can defend themselves, and thus support the tyrant Putin – exactly and casually the same – that the communist governments of Venezuela, Nicaragua Cuba, Iran or China do. We also find it disgusting that Catalan separatism has flirted with Russia to break Spain in two. They should be in jail, all those who flirted with Russia, for traitors to Spain, in addition to being seditious and embezzlers. And I end up with a little personal issue. Look, I've been listening for days... well, VOX is constantly attacking us for everything. The fault of all the evils of this country always has VOX in this Parliament. I don't know what you'd do or what you'd say if VOX wasn't here. Everything that happens in this country is because of VOX. And now, on this subject, they're also attacking us. And, finally, we are not going to accept lessons of solidarity from either of you on this issue – none. The one who's been talking to you... I've had a Ukrainian girl in my house for eight years, in foster care, three months a year. I know Ukraine perfectly well. I know the problems of the Ukrainian people perfectly well. I know what the Ukrainian people are suffering perfectly. Until fifteen days ago, I talked to her every day. Not now; the poor woman is in a basement, without light, without water and without food, waiting to see if there is a humanitarian runner who can get her out of her village, Ivankiv. I think that, on this issue, we need to get the political issues out a little bit. There are people there who are being massacred, who are having a bad time. Thousands of people are dying. A lot of people are having a bad time. And all we can do here is help the people who are there... the families we welcome and we will welcome, children, families of Ukraine, and that's it. I think it's pretty ugly to do this gallinaceous flight policy that I've been hearing about lately on this issue. I think we have to have a certain height of eyes, be responsible. And I don't think we should take advantage of this personal drama that Ukraine is experiencing to try to scratch four votes here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.71.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.72.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... you see, the deputy of VOX, how can you talk about outside action in this Parliament quietly, how did you do it? We disagree with everything you said, but you can't talk, can you? We have the right to take external action, to speak of solidarity, to speak of expressing our solidarity and cooperation. It's all right. I can do it. Let's go to the police station. We announce our vote in favour of all points of the motion. We can certainly disagree with the way it is expressed – if there is more or less force... – but we must say that we also express our full support for the people of Ukraine, their armed forces, their rulers. And let us reiterate our country's commitment, above all this respect for heroism and determination with which the people are fighting for their freedom and independence. The invasion decreed by President Putin on Ukraine is a flagrant violation of international law. It's a full-fledged violation of the United Nations Charter. There are points of the motion that we would actually vote on, let us say, with all force, above all this with regard to the Council of the Republic, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are entities that, as you are looking for, escape from the control of this Parliament, escape completely from the control of Parliament, the most essential democratic control, the most essential transparency control. Someone said the other day in a radio debate: "No, it's that if we do it in another way, they'll know where our resources come from. Hello? It's just... what do you want? , do not know the resources of an entity that wants to have competence over external action? Catalonia's external action corresponds to the Government of the Generality and its Foreign Councillor, and no one else can claim competence in external action. I am convinced that parliamentary groups... well, I'm not convinced, I know it won't be that way; that's why they should all vote unanimously. Competence corresponds to the councillor. And then, the issue of the commission of inquiry. See, if this Parliament wants to set up a committee of inquiry into, as the honourable Member says, "save the truth of contacts between various political groups and the Kremlin, for us it will not be, we will vote for it, eh? If this Parliament wants to, we will vote in favour. I'm also saying, we think this isn't the space to do it, we think this isn't the space. Space is the European Union, as is happening. Because it is obvious that Russia has had a role of destabilisation in the yes of the European Union. He probably went to Catalonia, but to other countries as well – to other countries as well. And, therefore, this investigation should be carried out in the case, I insist, of the European Union. It's obvious he's tried to destabilize. And we think that it is also obvious that some, in an absolutely ingenious way, have collaborated with this destabilization and have been useful in this destabilization that has brought to the band..., that has brought the Putin government. In any case, I insist, we will vote in favour of the majority of points, of..., no, of the totality of the points of this young man, even though you understand that we..., the lexicon and the way to explain them have been different. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.73.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.74.0	Well, thank you, President. Look, our political positions, in general, and not in the case we're dealing with right now, are neither improvised nor erratic depending on the political interests in the short term. We come from far away and form part of a left, an international left, which has historically opposed imperialist and capitalist wars. And, look, we'll do a little history to put on the table some references that are important to us. It was the 2nd of September of 14 – year long – that Karl Liebknecht – later assassinated together with Rosa Luxemburg – issued the only vote throughout the German Reichstag, including that of his own party, the SPD Social-Democratic, against the war credits that the Government was demanding with a view to financing the world conflict. While the speech was banned in the chamber and censored in press, it was later published in Swiss magazine Berner Tagblatt. One year and a half later, the conference known for the same name was held at the Swiss town of Zimmerwald, where representatives of European socialism opposed the war. As well as the differences in the positions of the delegates, the manifesto written by Lev Trotsky was signed for the conjunction, for the totality, of the assistants. « Only a pau based on the international solidarity of the working class and the freedom of all peoples can be a lasting pau. Therefore, it is the duty of the proletarians of all countries to carry forward, during the war, a common socialist work in favor of the pau, said the manifesto. And, paraphrasing Liebknecht in his intervention, which I mentioned before, he literally said: "I give support to the credits of aid to victims with the following reservations: I gladly vote for all who can bring relief to our Germans in the battlefield, as well as to the wounded and the sick, for whom I feel the deepest compassion. But, as in protest against the war, against those who are responsible for it and who have caused it, against those who direct it, against the capitalist proposals for which they are used, against the plans of action, against the abandonment and total oblivion of the social and political debts for which the Government and the classes are still guilty, vote against the war and the claims of war demanded. That's what Liebknecht said on December 2, 1914. For us, they are absolutely valid phrases and statements, and they are part of our references. Effectively, today, the citizenry, the people of Ukraine, cruelly suffers the shock of a double expansionism: that of the Russian Federation and, doubtless, also that of the United States, that of NATO and of this secondary actor that unfortunately today is the European Union, without the ability to have a policy of own generation of real and objective conditions of pau and shared security. Obviously, we reject the Russian Federation's military invasion of Ukraine, but that is not why we can support the expansionist and Bellicist policies of the United States, the European Union, NATO and the Spanish State. And it is from this point of view, from this vision – that it is not improvised, that it is responsible, that it goes from the far, and that we are convinced and convinced that it is an effective, immaterial, objective contribution to the pau and the resolution of this conflict, to a just pau – that we will vote that not at the conjunction of this young man. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.75.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.76.0	Thank you, President. We find ourselves with a young man from Ciutadans – and we understand that 15 days from now we will find another look, starting from the inquiry made by Mr. Martin Blanco dimarts – that basically what he does is to use the conflict in Ukraine to, once more, simplify, barricade and make a cocktail of everything that they want to raise here to polarize and confront and pursue in relation to the conflict and division. I, profiting from a conflict in Ukraine... to see how we can relate it somehow so that we can keep talking about our monotheme, without losing... You're going to take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid. We believe that it is a young man, the one you present, who does not help in the face of the settlement of the conflict in Ukraine or to strengthen diplomatic lives or to improve Catalonia's solidarity and support for Ukraine. What you do is, I say, use a conflict that is causing thousands of deaths, that carries a month of war and that is causing millions of refugees, to sweep it back and back – I said a word that I certainly shouldn't say –..., with the Catalan situation. I, moreover, is absolutely partial and biased. To start with, they're talking about the European Union with a twist that's... not a fan club in Rosalía. That is why the European Union is a consubstantial and irrefutable part of the natural area of projection of Catalonia and of the conjunct of Spain. What's more, to so much exalt this European Union and to so much idealize it..., is that the end turning it into an empty meaning, is absolutely empty. Miri, we believe in building a more just Europe, a more solid Europe, a brave Europe that faces the climate emergency. I also say to you that we believe that the European Union is not this; that the European Union is this..., these European values – which we will also talk about – are not these, because it has been proven many times. The reaction that the European Union has had to the conflict in Ukraine, which certainly many of the things that may have happened can be shared, has nothing to do with the reaction that the European Union has had to other conflicts. It has nothing to do with the European Union's response to the 2015 migration and refugee crisis, where thousands and thousands of people have died in the Mediterranean. What has been demonstrated by the conflict in Ukraine and the response of the European Union is that if you establish safe lives, thousands of deaths will be avoided. That didn't happen for everyone. This has been done only for refugees who are of a certain origin, who have certain physical features and who have a proximity to the European Union, which seems to be the most worthy of a temporary protection directive that has been activated for two decades and which has not yet been implemented. And it's very good that it's done now, welcome that it's done now, but let's hope that from now on it's done for all conflicts. Because war continues in Syria and continues in Yemen, and thousands of people continue to arrive through the Mediterranean. Therefore, secure lives and temporary protection directive for all refugees. Nor do we see a brave European Union at the time of breaking the energy model and energy dependence and at the time of betting for energy sovereignty and moving forward to break this dependence on gas, and above all to face the abuses of energy, which are using this conflict to further multiply its benefits. We don't see a European Union like that either. Therefore, we, with this European Union, in an acritic and consubstantial way..., so we know very hard, but no; it is not this, the European Union in which we believe. But that's what they do, too. And, curiously, all the intervention of Mr. Martín Blanco, talking a lot about Mr. Puigdemont... And he talked a lot about Mr. Alay and Puigdemont's relationship with Russia, but he forgot to talk about Mr. Alay's relationship with Putin – why are we just talking about some? – that they have supposedly met, and that, moreover, for which they themselves have communicated, they have no problem in coming to compare and give all the explanations and clarify it. Talk to us. We will vote in favour of all the forces speaking, but also VOX. Because it's VOX, it's Mr. Abascal, who has had to delete tweets or tried to delete tweets because it's not clear that he met Putin and who spoke wonders of Mr. Putin. It is VOX that meets with the strength of the European ultrathreat and meets with Orbán, which is Putin's aria to the European Union. It's VOX. And you didn't talk about VOX. So, he didn't talk about the main actor in Spanish politics who has had more connections with the ultra-right and with oligarch sectors that are financing Make You Hear, that has a clear relationship with the VOX group, or that they have financed Jean-Marie Le Pen, with whom they also meet. You haven't talked about VOX, maybe because, as they give support to the governments of Madrid and Murcia, they don't care that we talk about VOX. So let's talk to each other, yes, but let's talk about the ultra-threat relations with Putin's oligarchs. Let's talk about this. And above all, let us stop sweeping things up, because this does not help either to build the stick or to activate the diplomatic lives or to put the conflict in Ukraine on hold.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.77.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.78.0	Thank you, President. Simply, to convey our integral support to the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.79.0	Thank you very much. I, then, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mrs Aurora Madaula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.80.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is presenting to us today a motion supposedly relating to Catalan Europeanism. Supposedly because, once you read the points of the motion, we believe that it is a spurious motion, that is to say, it does not make any positive contribution to the debate, but it tries to connect falsely, without any direct connection of one thing to the other, the dramatic situation of Ukraine with the foreign policy of Catalonia. What do you think this young man is up to? To stop the unjustifiable invasion of Ukraine with the legitimate aspirations of the Catalan people. What does one have to do with the other? Res. But do you want us to talk about the Europeanist vocation of Catalans? Let's talk about it, and let's talk about the points of your young lady. Are we Europeans, the Catalans? So ho som, ho som from a long time ago. In fact, we could talk about the National Council of Catalonia, an entity created in 1939 for President Companies in exile from France and then reproduced, in 1940, in London by characters like Dr. Trueta, in Carles Pi and Sunyer or Mr. Josep Maria Batista and Roca. An institution, an entity with the objective of organizing a federal Europe in the 1940s, has translated into the promotion of the European federal movement, of which the Catalans have been from the very beginning, fleeing from Spanish fascism. Because we Catalans in Europe have always found refuge in exile, that "blessing of bitterness spoken of by Antoine de Baets, who continues to find refuge for the exiles of the 21st century. How should we not be Europeanists, if European justice has allowed our President Carles Puigdemont, Councillor Toni Comín and Councillor Clara Ponsati to participate in some European elections of which Spain wanted to take us out? How should we not be Europeanists, if our MEPs can move'sliurement throughout Europe', for the free space of Europe, while in Spain, and in the mouth of Spanish politicians, they threaten to segregate them, arrest them and send them to prison? We firmly believe in Europe, in a free and federal Europe, in a Europe that defends human rights, social rights; in a Europe that defends the rights of people. But we also defend a Europe that treats Ukrainian and Syrian refugees equally or those of Afghanistan, not like the white and racist Europe that defends the extreme right to which you whitewash and applaud in other Spanish communities. And yes, in the 21st century, we also felt the need to create a council for the republic. That yes, that it counts with an assembly of representatives, of citizens who have united freely, and that yes, that it is registered in the free space of Europe, outside the heights of the Spanish repression. And that has an external action plan approved for this Parliament a few weeks ago. And that, yes, it works to deploy the Catalan Republic defended and won the U of October, and that also works to denounce internationally the persecution of the independenceists and the violation of the civil and political rights of the Catalans. A private entity that I understand no one will want to control, Mr. Pérez. But the young lady, her young lady, instead of talking about Europeanism, as I said, seeks to link independence with the support of Putin's Kremlin taking advantage of the pain, taking advantage of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This Parliament approved, only to start the war, a statement of support and condemnation of the invasion. He invited the Council and gave it support, and registered a petition for appearance of this same Council to the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the initiative of Juntes for Catalonia. I think it's pretty clear who we are and where we give our support and where we don't. You make statements, in this motion, about supposed contacts and financing of Catalan political forces with the Kremlin without providing any evidence and encouraging political persecution through the state's keyposts. But, look, we're not going to help narrow down the Civil Guard summaries that they're chasing; neither with shameful statements about James Bond nor with reports, with photographs and political statements girls in this hemisphere like the ones you sent to the JEC in your practice of learning Gestapo agents or, as we do, with the Stasi or the KGB. It is for these reasons that I have stated that, obviously, it is sufficient and all-embracing manipulation of the motion on Europeanism that they make, we will vote against it. We will not vote in favour of any points. We are Europeanists, democrats and independenceists. And we will continue to defend our right to self-determination in a clear and determined manner. And we will continue to denounce here and internationally his persecution, detachment and his totalitarian tics. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.81.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And, then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.82.0	Thank you, President. Today we are presented with a Ciutadans motion, but it has already become a Ciutadans, VOX, PP and – oh, wonderful – PSC motion. I'm not sure if I impressed you. The Europeanist vocation is a defining characteristic of Catalanism. Ever since, we'd say. A vocation, certainly, shared between left and right, between municipalism and Catalan government, between civil society and business/economic power, between citizens and democratic representatives. A conviction that the last few years have had to overcome the trets every time more anti-Europeans growing and of the Spanish State and also the capture every time more stateist of the European Union, in explicit contradiction with its founding principles. And we have a very obvious example. Now he was talking about history. Let us recall the drafting process of the European Constitution, in the period 2001-2003, and the Catalan participation in this reform, of which the Catalan Convention for the Reform of the European Union is said, with more than three hundred representatives writing and then forwarding a document to the European Commission drawing a much more respectful model with the internal diversity of the Union. Of those proposals, of course, there was not one left. They all stood up against the wall of the state club, the same states that today impose their vision of an intergovernmental Europe that is far removed from the original community. That's why your young lady, Mr. Martin Blanco, went to shield this wall. It's not about Europeanism. On the contrary, Europeanism must be limited; it must be limited, it must be excluded, it must be excluded, it must be limited outside the European movement, it must not be shared by its Spanish nationalism. Actually, this Ukrainian lady is just the excuse. The motion goes from Spain. It goes from his repeated obsession with the malaltissa. The young man doesn't pose what..., and how Europe has to act to protect lives and benefits in Ukraine. It only shoots at anything that's mogui to Catalonia. It's a strong embolism, isn't it? That's his favorite motto. We share an evidence: the Russian Federation's aggression is a frontal attack on international law and democracy. Do you share the other side of the coin, that we cannot allow ourselves to respond to a conflict between democracy and authoritarianism with more authoritarianism? I don't think they're sharing it. Her young lady, on the other hand, puts us on this road without leaving, and she does so in consciousness. It was his first reflex: a vote in the European Parliament to pursue independence with Putin's excuse. They're not the only ones who do it. The British populist tabloids have also been demonized by the second referring to Scotland as if this was a victory of Putin. And we all know... if there's one thing we're clear about, it's that the drivers of Brexit and the Conservative Party are the ones that were directly financed by the Russian oligarchs. We all know who Putin's friends are in Europe: the extreme right – French, Italian, Spanish, all of it. Knows and repeats. Sergi Pardo-Prados, Professor of Political Science in Glasgow, often pointed out, in a well-solvent study, that independence is associated with liberal sociocultural values rather than identity, the same one that Professor Lluís Orriols explained to us a few years ago. Let us make it clear: the risk of falling into bad authoritarianism in state nationalism. The European Union will contribute to the victory against authoritarianism in the measure it deepened in its own democratic quality, returning to the founding principles. If it is to be a great international democratic policy and a global reference to internal equity, Europe must advance in the recognition of the civil and political rights of the peoples and nations that make up it. That is to say, Europe that today reacts with tangible solidarity to the attempt to eliminate the people and the Ukrainian nation as Catalan society and institutions do. The great central current of independence – even the most critical, as we have just felt, with the European establishment – is firmly committed to this democratic compromise and rejects any connivance with authoritarian regimes. And if someone acts in a different way, from personal interests or desperate strategies, it only represents himself or a specific group; in no case, the conjunction of movement. President Aragones has made it clear: the place of Catalonia is and will be next to the democracies. Councilwoman Alsina has also repeated this in this same chamber. We act in a state of mind, bet on democracy and multilateralism, alongside the European institutions. We will confirm with the vote that we will now do, then with the motion of Junts for Catalonia that we have worked, that we have shared, well removed from its, that there is clearly a common and broad position. Europe certainly plays it in Ukraine. What is unclear is what the Spanish State is playing in Europe. We'll vote against all the motion, naturally. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.83.0	So, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.84.0	Thank you, President. Madam Madaula, the truth is that the good thing about the facts, the hemerotheque, the factual truth – not propaganda – is that it is enough to resort to the hemerotheque to see what Mr Puigdemont said four days ago, when he spoke of Europe as a « club of decadent countries. And he said more – he said more – "Who wants to belong to this European Union? The citizens of Catalonia will have to decide whether they want to belong to this European Union. That is to say, of your Europeanism, Mrs Madaula, of the Europeanism of Junts per Catalunya, allow me to doubt, and much. Of course, it is not the only party whose Europeanism we have doubts about. And indeed, as Mrs Segovia said, we have doubts about the Europeanism of VOX and we have doubts about the Europeanism of Podemos, indeed. We have doubts about the regimes or the countries and parties that may have financed the Putin regime. And, among other things, Podemos' reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine has seemed to us, at least, decaffeinated, so to speak. And then I was particularly interested in Mr Maragall's intervention. Mr. Maragall, you say that this young man of ours is about Spain, and it's possible that, in part, he's about Spain. It's about the hispanophobia, it's about the hatred of Spain, it's about a visit from Spain that, unfortunately, you..., and, allow me, with all due respect, to quote a person of whom you are not taxed and, moreover, can speak with much more knowledge of the cause and with much more legitimacy than I do. But I remembered a few words that would be familiar to him, in an article entitled "Spanish Visca!" : « Because in this visca Espanya there are all those who really want Espanya. The only ones who don't fit are the ones who don't want a goat, the enemies of real Spain. Spanish, yes! And so much more than you. Visca Espanya! They'll be familiar, these words, Mr. Maragall. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.85.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this noon, once the next item on the agenda is over, which is the young man following the question to the Government about the resolution of international conflicts, which was presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the resolution of international conflicts]] [[302-00120/13]] And you have the word, to make the presentation, Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.86.0	Thank you very much, President. Members and Members, we present to you today a motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Councillor for Foreign Affairs and Government Obert on a resolution of international conflicts that we did in the last plenary. A Ukrainian-centered young man who has already advanced them who has counted on some of the items we have traded, and who I will refer to later. Unfortunately, two weeks later the images of wounded people, dead people, destroyed people, public spaces..., and a Ukrainian civilian population forced to leave their country to seek refuge. As you know, the United Nations is already deciphering in more than 3 million people affected by forced displacements and a number of people, also in the condition of refugees, who come to the borders of other European states. They are painful, sad and unacceptable images. With this young man, we want to be clear and clear. We condemn the invasion of the Russian regime over Ukraine, condemn the use of armed violence against the civilian population and demand the fictitiousness of hostilities immediately and the withdrawal of the Russian invaders from the Ukrainian territory. It is a military action against a democratic state that directly attempts against the international right, the independence and sovereignty of the Ukrainian people, and against the same European founding values. I expressed this in my intervention two weeks ago, from this very time: conflicts must be resolved democratically and peacefully, never with the imposition of weapons or with force. In Ukraine and abroad. We therefore reaffirm our commitment to the diplomatic and political path and to the defence of human rights as a way of resolving any conflict. For this reason, we are collecting the measures taken against the regime, while we are collecting and supporting Ukraine to acquire the status of a candidate country to become a member of the European Union. Let me say here that I value the task that, since the first day, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, led, in the next most international, is due to Constellera Alsina. We celebrate the active attitude of the Government of the Generality, which, despite the limitations imposed by the autonomic mark, has acted at all times with sense of state in all the tasks executed from different departments, and I do not list any. From a far more political point of view, relations with the Russian side have been suspended and permanent and close contact with the Ukrainian side and with the Ukrainian people in Catalonia has been accentuated. The bulk of emergencies has been put into operation, and 012_has attended the tricks in Ukrainian. With the leadership of the technical committee and with direct and constant contact with the consulate and with the UNHCR, it has guaranteed the attention of all the petitions that have arrived to, among others, facilitate shelters because they make Ukrainian families. And here I want to put in value the good pocket of the Department of Social Rights, as well as the sending of sanitary material through the Department of Health. In order to manage the longer-term needs, the Directorate-General for Cooperation has taken measures of great impact after listening to the Emergency Humanitarian Aid Committee, which brings together all the NGOs – more than EUR 600,000 for multilateral agencies of the United Nations – and has announced a call to subsidize NGO projects with them in Catalonia working on the ground – with a 1_million_i_mig endowment. A web space has been enabled for accredited NGOs where people can make donations, which, remember, is the preferred way to give support to the Ukrainian people. And it has been promoted the authorization of a logistic point to the port of Barcelona that centralizes the collection of materials, fruit of the solidarity of the Catalan people, in coordination with the console, the Food Bank and Pro-active Open Arms. And lastly, we also highlight the task of the Department of Equality and Feminism with refugees. It is for all that I have explained to you that we believe that today the Parliament of Catalonia, with all its solemnity, with all its gravity and also with all the urgency that this occasion requires, is a position, mediating this young man, condemning the Russian invasion of Ukraine, recognizing the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people as being independent and their right to exist as being born, and showing all the firmness and solidarity of the people and the institutions of Catalonia towards Ukraine. That's why we're asking for their support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.87.0	Thank you very much. Then, to defend the proposed statements, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.88.0	Thank you, President. So let's start with ourselves, too, in case Mr. Martin White and Citizens have any doubts, condemning with all roundness Russia's invasion of Ukraine and indiscriminate bombardment of its people. Thebi, people; and thebi, zero. That he's trying to save his faults at the time of denouncing the bonds of ultrathreat with Putin, saying that we've been you... I know it's hard, but I don't think it works for you or anyone who listens to him. It was a_me that started this invasion. There is one thing we live in the anguish of having a war that is, in fact, at the gates of Europe and that clings to the wars that we have seen in the past few years – and that have never ceased to exist. There have been bombardments and attacks that have caused thousands of deaths and that millions of people have to leave their homes and have to move between Ukraine or have to get out of the border and be joined to other countries. There is an invasion of Putin, Putin and the Russian oligarchs who support him. We want to make this distinction, because we don't think it's an invasion of the Russian people. And, in fact, we also want to show our solidarity to all those Russian citizens who are protesting, who are showing their opposition to this Russian invasion, this war, who are under censorship and the limitation of freedom of information and right to freedom of expression and who are detained and persecuted to express their rebuff. It's Putin's war. It is an invasion by Putin and the Russian oligarchy that violates the sovereignty of Ukraine and responds to an acceleration of a conflict that we can't aspire to other things that have gone on in the past few years, because what we can't do when we focus on conflicts and the response to conflicts is simplify. The European Union – and let's talk about the European Union again, in this motion – reacted quickly, reacted with sanctions, reacted with secure lives and reacted with protection for refugees, as we said, activating the temporary directive. And we will continue to insist on the double standard which the European Union and most of its Member States have served, in the case of this conflict, and which they have not served in other conflicts. Some of us were able to meet with representatives of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, who denounced the apartheid regime they have investigated and who are denouncing us that there is in the State of Israel, from how a state is bombing and is condemning the half of a population, because of its origin and identity, to a rule of apartheid. This we consider that we also need sanctions, international sanctions, to put up with the sending of weapons. We believe that this response that the European Union has shown in the case of the Russian invasion of Ukraine should be a response that extends to other conflicts, too, of the world. But what we can't do is limit ourselves to saying, "We're going to war, we're going to war, we're going to war, we're going to war, we're going to war, we're going to war, we're going to learn how we got to this war, how we got to this conflict. And we have to accept and understand that what needs to be empowered are diplomatic lives. What we can't do is use this conflict to justify an increase in spending and an increase in arms escalation, because we don't think that it helps to resolve conflicts and avoid other conflicts that may come, but surely what it will do will provoke more. Therefore, we do not believe that betting by military means follows the answer. The answer must be to bet on a diplomatic path. For a diplomatic route that, one time the invasion of Russia and the bombings of Russia take place, it is a diplomatic route that I actually built a lasting pau. Because what we have to do is change the way the states relate and the way we relate that we have so far, putting up conflicts and putting up the battle for resources as the argument and as the excuse to invade, to bomb and to bring many people to be murdered or to have to run away from their home. We'll give support to most of the points of this young man. Don't be so enthusiastic about giving support to the government, as the group that presents, that we understand that, like the government, it is what it is to do. And we do want to take advantage of this moment, too, to recognize the solidarity shown by Catalan society, a society that has quickly engaged in solidarity with refugees, with people affected by the bombings. But we also call for this solidarity... that we listen to entities that carry many years of work on the ground, that work with these entities; that we listen to administrations, that are saying that the most effective and efficient way to move this solidarity is through transfers, to work on the ground, because many times the shipments of raw materials and food and things are stuck at the border, cannot be donated, cannot be distributed as needed. And the best form, we insist, as Lafede says, and as other entities say, is transfers to entities like Red Cree, like Save the Children, like Metges del Món, like Metges sans Frontieres, who have been working for many years in the humane response to conflict situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.89.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.90.0	Thank you, President. Today, here, before the Russian Federation's aggression in Ukraine, we strongly condemn this aggression, but we also recognize that morally and ethically it has generated many contradictions, seeing such a war propitious. And it forces us to ask ourselves, often, until we contribute to legitimate resistance, right? , of this city, of this legitimate democracy – imperfect, like all –, before the invasion of a regime every time more authoritarian, or as at this time we can continue to contribute to building the bases for the pau before aggression with such a similar responsibility. From the Republican Left, we firmly believe that the culture of the pau must be the key back that structures the resolution of the conflict. And, therefore, this Catalan response, this reaction ability that very well described before the other two people – company and company – that preceded me in the intervention..., this Catalan response we must always do with the compromise for human rights and for civil and political rights. And here..., thanking immensely and recognizing the capacity to gather, the rapid reaction that Catalan citizens, Catalan institutions, entities, organised civil society, have had, right? , and offering, through the entities, as we say, through the municipalities, also with the Catalan Fund of Cooperation... ; organizing to make contributions, to help get companies and companies out of there, victims of war, to welcome them also to our home. And I always do it with this conviction, a conviction that – as I say, too – we have with the people of Ukraine, but that we have and want to have with the rest of the refugees and refugees from other conflicts of the world, Afghanistan, Syria, etc. And this time we celebrate, as we say, right? , the rapid response of Europe and which has ceased to be this strong Europe, but we want it to cease to be for everyone. We therefore want to respond to this compromise also for democracy, because war – we know this – is an excuse to reverse or nullify democratic principles and values that sustain coexistence. And that's why we denounce when it's used to fuel ultranationalism, to advocate for fascism. I must say this – I must say this –: we must make the culture of pau prevail also over the doctrine of rearmament, in the response to the war. Catalonia, as we say, we are in these great consensuses, these consensuses in favor of the culture of the pau. We are a first power in the culture of pau. Many generations that have sufficed us from antimilitarism, feel objectors of consciousness, the « No to the war of 2003, and with institutions, also, like the Centre Delàs, FundiPau, Justicia and Pau. To our own democratic institutions we have been impelled by this pacifism with the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau, the UNESCO chair. And demoscopic data always tell us, too, huh? , the eighty-four percent of Catalan citizens always bet more for media than for armies. It's one of the great consensus we have in our society. And our President of Esquerra, Josep Maria Jové, also reminded us of this from here in the parliamentary group: these great civic consensuses pass through a common identity, a shared one. And here we always defend them: amnesty, referendum, republic, a sanitarium or a public school..., but today also here..., this great consensus that the culture of the pau is the best weapon before the war. Therefore, we reaffirm ourselves also today, with this young man. We also thank the company of Together for the willingness to accept the papers to give all this support to the people of Ukraine, to the victims from there and here who have suffered this aggression. We also did it without giving an alibi to anyone who does the aggression and authoritarianism that may involve. And we also assume that the only answer cannot be the increase in military spending and rearmament, but we have also convinced that the pau, which is real, which is stable, lies only on the basis of respect for the rights and fundamental freedoms and democratic principles. That is why we will always show ourselves alongside the democratically chosen institutions of the people of Ukraine, and, as Ernest also said before, defending and referring to these European values. We know that Europe has a lot of work to do in order to falsify the state of right within Europe's borders, but that is the only way to guide the solution to the conflict: with the fundamental values and, we also insist, with a system of gathering European refugees that is much better, which is based on criteria of equality and respect for human values and rights. All in all... we will vote in favour of this motion presented by Junts' company for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.91.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... A while ago the Socialist Group voted in favour, Mr d'Esquerra Republicana, of a point which says that "we proclaim that the European Union is a natural area of projection of Catalonia and that we give our support to the aspirations of Catalans to participate in the deepening of the space of freedom, justice, equality and prosperity that this project embodies. We have voted in favour of this, no problem. You don't. Why? Why don't I know who's voting for it, too? So no. We voted in favour. Why? So look, because the congressman who's talking to you has proposed to vote in favour of this. Because an old member of my parliamentary group, who I won't tell you his last name, said to me at his desk: "David, we talk to everyone and come to terms with everyone, on one condition: never give up your principles. And that's what we did a while ago, not giving up our principles of saying what this point of this young man says. I warn you: now, in the new Member, we will return to vote in favour of most points, because they please us. If anyone thinks that, according to those who vote, they can't vote for it, so you don't vote for it, because the Socialist Group will vote for it. We appreciate the work of Mr. Josep Rius, the efforts to seek consensus, to seek the majority. That's what you have to do, huh? , seek consensus, seek majority. And we also thank the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left and Communal We can see the ideas they have made to improve – and we think they improve – the text you have proposed to us. And, therefore, at points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 we shall vote clearly in favour, without any problem. In point 5a, actually – said the Member of the CUP – there can be no vote against it, we cannot vote against it. And we are absolutely in agreement with what this point 5 claims, but we will abstain from it. Basically, for a reason, huh? : it is an exceptional aggression – exceptional – from Russia on a border country of the European Union that had requested the input to the European Union. And now we are, therefore, managing a very important arrival of displaced people from Ukraine. And this, basically, is the challenge we all have at this time – all –: the European Union, the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia. And, therefore, what we are doing is, basically, to bring forward the agreements of the European Union of March 3, in which this temporary protection directive was activated. We have been one of the first countries of the European Union to activate all this, and, moreover, we have extended the scope of this directive to third-country nationals and members of their families. And we have also been one of the first countries to apply the simplification of transactions. We will vote against the point sisè. Somehow, the deputy of the commons who preceded me also explained the motius, but above all for a motius, huh? , and the Member knows our criteria on this subject, the Member Josep Rius. We think we must all work, the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia, but especially the diplomatic activity also corresponds to the Government of Catalonia. But, in any case – in any case – we do have the positive part of the exercise of its powers, and we see very positively the attendance of President Aragonès at the last conference of presidents in La Palma, where the Generalitat, together with the rest of the communities and the Government of Spain, was able to continue working to strengthen this institutional cooperation, and in this way to implement the national plan to respond to the consequences of the war in Ukraine. This is the way, this is the field, and this is the way... we have to do all the folds, without giving up anything at all. Let each one do what he can. In any case, I insist and take advantage – if I may, Madam President – of calling for the separate vote on point 5a and point 6, which cannot be done jointly. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.93.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.94.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First, from the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia, we want to send all our support and solidarity to the Ukrainian people, who are currently fighting, is facing the worst and most ruthless war of this century within Europe. Putin is guilty of serious aggression against international law. Putin is guilty of a war that is already threatening us and involving us all. From VOX, we believe that the international community has a duty to apply the most serious sanctions to Russia for this aggression. We believe that all the groups present here should share this view. However, who do we have here today, in this room? And it is that several groups in this chamber will vote in favour of this motion, performing one of the greatest acts of hypocrisy that are remembered. We all know today the relations of the separatist government and Carles Puigdemont with Vladimir Putin. Today we all know that the members of the CUP participated in the meetings of the São Paulo Forum with dictator Nicolás Maduro, a direct partner of Putin. Today we all know that several members of Podemos are part of the Puebla Group, who are also Putin's partners, Putin's international partners, as they were at the time of the Soviet Union. And let all Catalans know that you are Putin's international allies. [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] , you and the criminal organizations to which you belong, such as the Puebla cartel, which are systematically dedicated to hindering the world's response to Putin. Gentlemen of Junts per Catalunya, the motion that you are presenting to this chamber today is not really a motion to condemn Russian aggression to Ukraine, but rather a motion with which you seek to wash the hands of your collaboration with Putin's Russia. They intend to deceive the Catalans by taking advantage that the Catalan people have expressed their rejection of this invasion in order to try to hide the more than close relations of separatism with the Kremlin. Or will they now deny that the delegation of Carles Puigdemont did not travel to Moscow to seek Russia's support for the independence of Catalonia? You sought collaborationism, you sought Putin's military, even armamentistic, collaboration to attack Spain's national sovereignty; the same military collaboration that today is attacking Ukraine's sovereignty by seizing the lives of thousands of innocent civilians. That is why we are going to vote against this motion, because we are not going to participate in the washing of Putin's partners' hands in this chamber. Having said that, we believe that it is time for reflection. Over the past few years, the elites in Brussels and their climate lobbies have led us to depend energetically on Russia and also on Algeria, leaving Spain and the European Union as a whole in a situation of total defencelessness in the face of attacks like those we are currently suffering. For years, separatism has attacked our armed forces trying to corner them, to separate those from our society. The dramatic situation that our neighbours in Ukraine and we, too, from the European Union, are experiencing leads us to understand something, to make certain decisions, and is that the time has come for Spain to break with the 2030 agenda and bet once and for all for energy sovereignty, moving away once and for all from these impositions of the impoverishing climate sect. Spain must bet on military sovereignty, working with our partners and increasing the budget to guarantee us a professional and, yes, well-armed army. Catalonia, on its own account, must stop assaulting our armed forces, which are guarantors of our sovereignty, territorial unity and our system of freedoms, as well as returning our military to their rightful place in our society. Finally, honourable Members, Catalonia will never be credible and will never achieve any result if it acts freely in the international community by presenting itself as an independent state. If you want results, if you want to help Ukraine, stop doing the ridiculous sending vans where absolutely nobody gets up and start collaborating actively with the strategy of the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.95.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.96.0	Thank you, President. Well, we would also like in this intervention to share with you some of the views on this conflict in which, among others, we recognize each other, which are references for us. Start with Noam Chomsky. In a recent article, he expressed his conviction that the United States – literally said – ‘is today the determining factor because it does not prosper in the negotiations between the government of Putin and Zelenski. In this sense, he believes that Washington's insistence on the right will rise from Ukraine to join NATO is a barrier to the peaceful resolution of a crisis that threatens to be even more devastating than it already is. Noam Chomsky. Another reference, the manifest Feminist Resistance against War: "We reject the positions created these days that deepen the bellicose spiral. We reject decisions to add more weapons to the conflict and increase presuppositions of war. We reject the "security" reports that reinforce logical authorities and militarization. « Not in our name, add the statement. And the signatories have also demanded boldly to resume the offensive initiated by Russia, of which – they assure – NATO is responsible. And they've also affected the bile descent as the only real path to the stick. In contrast, Mr. Pedro Sánchez a few hours ago said « more NATO, « more NATO intervention – and, therefore, more bellicose and militaristic escalation. The expert Vicenç Fisas, for which he makes a new model of security that can also contribute to the resolution of this conflict, suggests: "U, to resume the approaches of the non-offensive and non- provocative defenses that are to the doctrine of the OSCE; two, for which he makes Ukraine, to complete the agreements of Minsk of 2015, that already preview to create a zone of security; three, to design a scheme that can be accepted by the parties involved and be realized in a clean future from a ring of security between the NATO countries and the border countries with Russia, concluding an ample set of confidence-building measures and reduction of military potentials offensive that provides security to all while eliminating the perceptions of threat. And finally, he also adds, among many other considerations of contribution to a concept of security that can be resolved from this conflict..., he says: "Among the confidence-building measures applicable to the countries of the security ring, the borders with Russia, would include the withdrawal of too many foreigners, the suppression of military manoeuvres in other countries, the non-establishment of nine foreign military bases, the establishment of a demilitarized perimeter around the borders, the withdrawal of provocative weapons systems and the non-introduction of new weapons or defence systems currently not existing in a country. Very distant, these proposals, from what is the recent policy of NATO, the United States and the European Union. Finally, girls, these references, what's our position? U, we reject the Russian military invasion of Ukraine. We denounce the direct responsibilities of the United States, the European Union and NATO in the generation of this conflict for their systemic failure to implement the pacts and agreements on the demilitarization of the region. We defend Ukraine's sovereignty, which will only be possible outside Russia's control and beyond NATO's control. We recognize Donbass's self-determination right. We reject the military bellicist climb. We claim the compliment of the Minsk accords. We demand the development and application of agreements and pacts of neutrality, demilitarization, denuclearization and control and reduction of offensive and strategic weapons to the region and the conjunct of Europe, based on the principle of shared security. We sympathize with the initiatives of humanitarian aid in the war zone and with those of the gathering of refugees from the conflict. We denounce at once the double standard that does not pay the same attention and welcome to people coming from other conflicts, up to and including conflicts provoked or with direct participation of NATO and the European Union. We demand, therefore, the same asylum rights and refuges for all people from humane crises. And we demand a swift diplomatic and political resolution of the conflict that immediately ended with the war and its destruction. And, therefore, we cannot give support to the coincident politics of the Spanish and the Generality in favor of military escalation. On these bases, we will vote in different senses on the different points of the motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.97.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.98.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... I believe that this motion put to us by Junts per Catalunya..., first of all, goes ahead that we will vote in favour of the virtually whole motion, except for the last point, and we will not even vote against the last point, because it seems to us, the whole motion, acceptable, well-bred, reasonable, sensible. It is true that in the antipodes of that denunciation that we make of those links between the environment of former President Puigdemont and the environment of Putin ; but, in any case, we are going to the facts, we are going to the things, and this motion, indeed, seems entirely acceptable to us, except that last point, to which we will not vote against, but we will abstain. However, the debate that has arisen around this motion I think makes it very clear where everyone is in this Parliament. And the truth is that I am particularly concerned that it seems that the speech of the politically correct, the speech of those supposedly pacifist ideas or that anti-militarist discourse that we have heard from the deputies of the CUP, of the Republican Left and of Podemos..., I think we have to put it into question. There is evidence that I believe has been demonstrated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, without falling into schematic, simplistic discourses, as the spokesman for the commons once said. Indeed, too schematic, too simplistic discourses must be avoided, but it is true that when there is an illegal, illegitimate invasion, which does not fit at all with the assumptions of what the historical tradition of just war has foreseen as grounds or elements that can justify a war, according to the tradition of Francisco de Vitoria, Father Suárez and other classics of that theory about just war, I believe that the condemnation must be unequivocal, it must be absolutely without cracks, without nuances. To speak of the diplomatic resolution of a situation of war, of unjust invasion, seems to me to be involved – and forgive me to say so – in an equidistance that harms the resolution of any problem. Before trying to address the problems, one must be aware of what the reality is. And the reality is that the world, unfortunately, has many elements of confrontation among nations, many elements of confrontation even within nations themselves. And that is why we believe that the falsely pacifist discourse or the anti-militarist discourse..., we have recently seen as a motion, a motion for a resolution by Esquerra Republicana, asked to expel from Talarn the Military Academy, with a speech, I insist, of contempt for our armed forces, of contempt for the state's security forces and bodies, of the army, in this case, which we find deeply worrying. Let me tell you something that I don't say, but it says my admired Professor Josep Baqués. I completely agree, and it may be a bit striking, but I think it's perfectly explicable. He says the best way to avoid war is precisely to be willing to do it. In many cases deterrence fails, and in this case deterrence has failed. When we heard a few years ago the speech of President Sánchez..., who, fortunately, I think it is worth remembering the correction in his speech: only eight years ago Mr Sánchez said that the Ministry of Defence was left. I think that's a huge irresponsibility. You have to prove to the international community that you are not a coward, that you are not willing to tolerate attacks on your country and democracy – ultimately, in your way of understanding life. What is happening in Ukraine is an attack not only on the Ukrainian people – who also – but an attack on liberal democracies, on freedom as we understand it, as we understand it in open societies, in modern, liberal Western societies. And, of course, that attack is deeply concerned. I believe that the vast majority of the citizens of countries that are lucky enough to live under liberal democracies. That is why our support for the Ukrainian cause is because it is common sense, because it is what dictates wisdom, and then also because, indeed, it will always be better a liberal regime in which there is control between powers, in which there is a judicial system that works moderately well, in which there is the possibility at least of overthrowing those who rule, than a tyrannical, authoritarian or autonomous regime like that in Russia. Therefore, all our support for the cause of the Ukrainian people, all our condemnation of the invasion of Russia. And also launch this warning about what is such a dangerous message of so-called pacifism, that when it makes demonstrations against the war it does them with wars already begun. What must be avoided is precisely war. And, of course, having a good defense, good armies, helps to avoid war. That's clear. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.99.0	I, finally, on behalf of the mixed group, has the word Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.100.0	Thank you, President. Yesterday he reminded the President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès, that his insistence at the hour of untying the changes to the dome of the Mosses of the fight against corruption perfectly responded to that expression of non-small excuse, manifest accusation. That together for Catalonia present today this young man is exactly the same. It's obvious that consciousness doesn't have a lot of peace after flirting with Rus. And it is that the references to Putin in writings, speeches, etcetera, of Puigdemont, Alay and company are absolutely indisputable. How indisputable is the fact that, after the non-rounding of the European Union to the independence of Catalonia, a very important part of separatism played to the destabilisation of Europe, of the European Union, via Russia, as a way to independence. This operation failed in a shocking way, rounding up and with some even ridiculous episodes, but it passed – it passed –, that's it. It must have been the result of a hoax and despair that they had because things didn't work out for them. And Mr. Rius, who presented this young man, a perfect expert in the Russian operation, as Carles Puigdemont's most trusted person, would have been much more credible if he had started his speech by apologizing: « I'm sorry, we're gone, « let's be European again, « it was all a joke. But we don't judge intentions, when we talk about motions, and we don't just make sanitary cords; we analyze what the wording of these says. And, from this point of view, five of the six points of the motion – which are, of course, almost identical to the one presented before the Ciutadans Group – well, they will have our support, because they are quite obvious. Not the sisè, which we would vote for because it's not a real joke. To say that the Government of Catalonia has led in the international arena this crisis would be like saying that this chamber is led by the People's Party of Catalonia. I ask you for a minimum sense of proportionality, but above all a minimum sense of ridicule, before you write according to what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.101.0	Thank you very much. And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.102.0	Thank you very much, President. I have not done so before, but I would like to thank Congresswoman Serret, of Esquerra Republicana, also to Congresswoman Segovia, of the commons; the papers they have presented have enriched the text. Also to deputy David Pérez – not at all, but we have agreed on the strength of things – and also to deputy Riera, of the CUP..., and the good predisposition that other groups of the chamber have shown. I also take advantage of these few seconds to recognize all those Russian citizens who are demonstrating against the Russian invasion that is perpetuating their own government, very brave and that are subject to sanctions, and therefore I think it is fair to do so. For those who come to the Faristol against everything, we have said it many times: it is so false any reference to a link between Catalonia and Russia that the same European Commission said that there was no intelligence report in which this information is based on the international communication media. And what I'm asking is that I don't use a human drama to make Spanish nationalism. You're immoral. They don't play with people's lives. In politics, it's not all worth it. And I'd like to end by closing this young man. The gravity of the situation and the urgency demand it. We ask that this Parliament – and so I thank all the support that has already been advanced – be a little further up in a state parliament, not just condemning military actions against Ukraine, but also recognizing the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people as independent and their right to exist as a nation. Always be at the front leading pau politics in the defense of the pau-asking and fighting against repression. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.103.0	Yes, Mr. White Martin. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.104.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...of our young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.105.0	The reading of the point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.106.0	Point four of our young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.107.0	Perfect, thank you. That of the Europeanist vocation. All right. So we'll start voting on the motions that were filed this morning, which are points 21 to 25 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into residential and day centre places (continuation)]] [[302-00112/13]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the question to the Government about residential and day-care places. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 131 votes in favour. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 67 votes in favour and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 24 abstentions. We're voting points 4 and 9. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 131 votes in favour. We're voting 5th and 5th points now. The vote begins. These points received 55 votes in favour, 10 against and 66 abstentions. We're voting now for point 5. and 5.f. The vote begins. These points received 65 votes in favour and 66 votes with abstention. We're voting now for points 5.d, 5.e and 5.g. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 55 votes in favour and 76 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point received 65 votes in favour, 1 against and 65 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point received 55 votes in favour, 12 against and 62 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number eight. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market (continuation)]] [[302-00113/13]] Let us now proceed to the vote on the motion following the question to the Government on measures to incorporate vulnerable women into the labour market. We begin by voting point 1, with letters and d. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 110 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 11 abstentions. We now vote on points 1.a, 1.j and point 4. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 110 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting the number one point now, and that's it. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 105 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 16 abstentions. We're voting now point 1, letter g, which is a transactional theme of suppression. The vote begins. This point was eliminated, with 105 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.k and point 3. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 105 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 39 votes in favour, 83 votes against and 7 abstentions. Finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 119 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the impulse and dynamism of the Ebre Lands (continuation)]] [[302-00114/13]] Let us proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the impulse and dynamism of the lands of the Jews. We start by voting point 1.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour and 50 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 80 votes in favour and 50 abstentions. We're voting points 3 and 4, except point 4.b. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 99 votes in favour and 32 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 116 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 67 votes in favour and 64 abstentions. We're voting 9th point now. The vote begins. This point was rejected, with 52 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 9.b and 9.e now. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 121 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting now on point 9.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 67 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. This point was rejected, with 9 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 88 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 98 votes in favour, 1 against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 98 votes in favour and 33 votes against. We're voting now on point 13.b. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 88 votes in favour and 43 abstentions. We're voting now for point 13.b bis. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 121 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting now for the 13.b point. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 131 votes in favour. We're voting now on point 13.c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 86 votes in favour and 45 abstentions. We're voting point 16. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 88 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number 17. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point 18 now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 131 votes. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Europeanist vocation of Catalans (continuation)]] [[302-00115/13]] Let us proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the Europeanist vocation of Catalans. Let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 50 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point has also been rejected, with 58 votes in favour and 73 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point has also been rejected, with 41 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 18 abstentions. Finally, we will vote for the rest of the points, but before we ask the secretary first to proceed to the reading of the point number 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.108.0	"Declares that both the Council for the Republic and the Assembly of Representatives as the Ministry Lliure d'Exterior are empty enclosures that do not represent anyone; expressly disallows any intention of its supposed leaders to abrogate the representation of Catalans, and considers all the actions they undertake to be null and void.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.109.0	The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were rejected, with 50 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the resolution of international conflicts (continuation)]] [[302-00120/13]] And finally, we proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the resolution of international conflicts. Let's vote, first of all, points 2, 4 and 5. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 112 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting the five-a-point now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 88 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 65 votes in favour, 58 votes against and 8 abstentions. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 120 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.110.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session at twenty-six on the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system]] [[302-00116/13]] The motion following the inquiry to the Government on the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system, which has submitted the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. You have the word to expose it to Mr. Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.111.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... well, as you know, for us, for the UPC, public energy is a priority for our country, and with this young man what we do is to start, so to shape it, beyond the assumption that it was already destined for it in the assumptions of this year. What we are doing today is already beginning to incorporate renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric power plants, which already have expired concessions or which have expired in their own years. But I have to tell you the truth: in fact, if we were a normal country, that's to say, if we were a country, we wouldn't be here. We would also ask this, but we would be asking, beyond these centres, that energy companies are nationalized. And here we have to point out the hard mistake – or not so much for some, with the rotating doors turning around – that was done at the time to the Spanish government, liberalizing and privatizing a strategic sector such as the electric sector, leaving the market in the hands of the interests of other powers and international corporations. And in this, therefore, it should be noted that PP and PSOE were perfectly understood, as in many other things. And now we're in the current situation, aren't we? They don't know how to pay bills, not just from the light; also from gas, food, lloger, etc. Because, while we're pushing absolutely everything, the bottoms have dropped and the labor market has been totally pre-characterized. And what proposals does the government put to us on the table? In this case, Spanish. As the good liberal government, therefore, has temporarily lowered VAT, has it not? Now prepare a follow-up of measures that are always thought of spending public money to continue financing these big businesses, which earn millions and millions at the expense of the majority's patience. But we think: we could also take left-wing measures, like, for example, those that tell many European countries, that it would be to maximize the benefits of these companies that are stealing our lives from our citizens. And, if they really were the most progressive in history, nationalize them and defuse that energetic privatization that has brought us all the way here. In fact, it has been shown that the privatisation of these strategic sectors has only served because the citizenry pays more and more, and the enterprises earn more and more. It's like, the poorest, the richest. The majority, the poorest; the businesses of IBEX 35, the richest. And that's why we in Catalonia need this public energy so that we can travel for the interests of the citizens. The recovery of these centres will allow us to complement the energy production with the public renewable installations that they build together, but also the own Generality, avoiding also that private interests continue to control the market completely and putting the prices, these unorbited prices. In addition, we can also plan to compensate the territories that have these hydroelectric infrastructures. That's why, this young man, because our proposals are meant to favor the veins and the veins, all of them. And now to denounce the constant spoli in which we live under these corporations with the government's view. It must, immediately, dictate the expiry of all concessions which have been completed or which have been renewed irregularly so as to incorporate them already into this public energy, or to the ACA provisionally, while this company is not fully operational. And also, as we have already said, the Generalita has all the public legal resources at its disposal to assist them in the process of reversion to public hands of the hydroelectric power stations that fall under the Ebre Hydrographic Confederation. And we also need to fight together with the General Council of Aran for the Garona's shell to be a unique shell and steps at the hands of the Government of the Generality. And that's why, so today, we presented this motion, to begin with..., to try to get this energy to start walking with pressure and hydroelectric power stations. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.112.0	Thank you very much. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, the Lord Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.113.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia's orography is like this hemicle, with the Pirinius up above everything, where there is the public, and it goes down gradually with its rivers to the sea, until here we have the Faristol. And we have it, all of it, so, stuffed with hydroelectric power plants. Basically, the embassies, the great embassies that we all know and photograph – and that are certainly a demonstration that the landscape impact is a subjective and cultural concept – and that allow us to regulate the offer seasonally with electricity demand. And, on the other hand, the small flowing power plants, which do not store, only function with the end that the river has at every moment, and that the majority are the fruit of the industrial expansion of mid-twentieth century. And all of them, big and small, with or without the ability to bomb. The CUP presents to us today a motion that says, literally, "to incorporate in the public sphere the hydroelectric power stations of Catalonia. I've got four points. The first is to analyze the concessions of the hydroelectric power plants of the internal conches of Catalonia. The second is to automatically incorporate those that are fallen or have been irregularly renewed – and you don't say, but you know, those that are falling from now on, even though the majority will be from 2061 – with this public energy, or well – the deputy said – for the moment, with the ACA. The third is to get the same for the Catalan CHE, of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation. And the fourth is that the Generality and the General Council of Aran are the sole owners of the Catalan Conches of the Garonne, leaving, in this case, the CHE. We will vote in favour of the four points, with the minor points that we have already negotiated, because, in fact, what they say is that the title is public and Catalan. But we want to make some observations, because we have to distinguish what is the ownership of the management. You, the CUP, would want the Generality, let's say, through the body that it was, also managed the day-to-day of these centrals. Did you stop to think what it was like to build, to keep up with a center of these characteristics? I would like to put a moment in the path engineering bar and remember, when we calculated them, when we scaled them economically..., we can be talking easily of about 2_million euros per megawatt, with all the maintenance cost associated with this investment volume. Moreover, they are central, they think, that they are obsolete, many, that will need to adapt them in order to complete the complete ecological. And that means acting in civil works, sometimes replacing turbines, etc. I ask you: do you really think that since the Generality, since the Polish Generality, are capable of being able to charge us economically and also technically everything without counting on talent as much as with private capital? I ask them to do the numbers and see that it's very complicated. That's why we tell them to shield the ownership of the power stations that fell out of the Catalan public sphere, we see it well, we vote for it. But the later management of the day to day will have to count, yes or yes, with the companies. Or, at least, with public-private collaboration. Or, if they want, in those cases in which it is feasible, with participating models, which, in fact, are already public experts, such as, for example, the mill, Pujalt's aerogenerator, in Anoia, where a company manages it– in fact, it also has ownership– and it is a company that is open to everyone, with more than six hundred people and entities. In any case, as the model stands, concessions exist because someone with sufficient technical and economic capacity reverses them, and the business allows them, at the end of the years, to recover this reversal. Catalonia has the strength and prestige it has with the country thanks to the talent and ability of its people to work. We're a born entrepreneur. I would ask you not to criminalize all this fabric of entrepreneurs and workers and not to pretend that everything would be better with a strictly public and functional structure, because it's not like that. From Juntos to Catalunya we are the first to say a « don't stop at oligopolis; neither to the rotating doors. But there is also a 'yes' to the initiative of our people. Therefore – and with this I finish, President – we vote in favour of this motion to present us, but we assume that you, the CUP, are containing – in your case legitimately, but are containing – and that you will want to present us with some other, then yes, without complex and without beginnings, that this public energy does not only show the property of these hydroelectric power stations, but that, besides, I manage, distribute and even commercialize this electrical energy. And then it'll be when they find out about our ideas of realism and common sense. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.114.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr. Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.115.0	President, councillor, deputies, deputies... In fact, the motion that the UPC presents to us today was about a question that we have been working for a long time, both with the UPC and with the deputy Cornellà and with the company, too, Pau Juvillà. Therefore, today I want to thank the presentation of this young man. And not only the presentation of the young man, but also the predisposition to work the papers. A joint, constructive work and work that demonstrates what we have shown: of one band, the government's compromise – which is – and, of the other, that is, that if we look and work looking for the points of agreement, we will not only agree, but we will add and gain consensus from the left and with a transformative will. He told them that the Government's will is there and it is demonstrated that, during the debate on the inquiry and the motion we have today, the ACA has acted by starting a team's contracting procedures to review the more than 220 concessions and contracts of the hydroelectric power plants that exist in the internal conches of Catalonia. And we do it with double intent. From one side, have a detailed map of what date they finish, what power they have and know when we can incorporate them into this public energy, that they also know we are working and that the government is committed to being a reality. And, on the other hand, to be able to detect irregularities in historical documents and see if in any case it is already possible to finally give some concession of which we still have in force and incorporate them into this set of fifteen hydropower plants that in the proper deu, twenty years seems that they will be able to incorporate in public management. Some will relativise the debate on concessions and hydropower, but I would like to put three elements in the replenishment to give it importance. On one side, we are talking about 2,300 megawatts, that is to say, between fifty-one percent of the country's renewable energy production, and between eight and thirty-one percent of the electricity production in Catalonia. The second is that hydropower will have a key role in the time that Proencat draws on us by 2050, since it has a huge value because it is manageable and allows us to compensate and accumulate energy at times when other systems are not producers. And the third is because it allows us to plan what we have so much demanded with the 2019 renewables decree and what we didn't have and what it took to be Councilwoman Jordan when it came to making territorial planning; so in this case we're planning. I would add a fourth point that it's not technical and it's political, but that's not least important, and it's the debate about oligopolises. And it's asking us if we want to fight the oligopolises. And I say, one more time, that from Esquerra we want, and that is why we cannot give up any space that we can occupy or any locks that we have. That's why we promote self-consumption with the decree of renewables and drive energy communities; that's why we work to recover concessions from hydroelectric power plants, and that's why we drive public energy. But, in the debate on oligopolises, we are currently seeing a huge cynicism on the part of some, who look at the Generality before this rise in energy prices, accusing it that the price escalation is the Generality's fault for a lack of deployment of renewable energy, when we know that renewable energy can be a future in the long run, but not in the medium or the short term. At the same time, the same people look here knowing perfectly well that who regulates the energy sector and who gave himself to the oligopolis and gave himself to the IBEX 35, and forgot about the citizens, the transporters, the ramaders, the fishermen, the taxi drivers, the bottlers, the peppers, the farmers, they are themselves. Either it's pure cynicism, or it makes them so ashamed they don't want to remember it, but we'll tell them. It's you, the PP and the PSOE. It is you who, with your forefathers, rotating doors and hidden interests, have brought us here. It is obvious that the price of energy is pushing for a war. But they know that it rains on women, that the conflict is over and that you are responsible for it. Mirin, of the most progressive government in history, let's hope they're brave. Let us hope that they are not limited to a populist measure of VAT reduction, that above all they detail the capacity of recaptancy and of being able to design and implement public policies, but that what we hope is that they regulate the market, that they plant in front of the oligopolises and not that they act as their spokespersons. But with the news coming out we see that it is still worse: "The government opens up to compensate the electricians later in exchange for lowering the receipt. I mean, it's not just the doormen, it's not even planted, it's just they reinforce and make up for it. Mirin, in the field of renewable energies in our home, will advise her yesterday: "It is working. The decree, the regional offices, the territorial planning jobs, the Proencat, the public energy jobs, the hydroelectric concessions... Besides, you were talking about projects and, when you talk about projects, you're talking about the last two years. I'll tell you about the last few months. When Councilwoman Jordan came in, there were sixty megawatts of public information. There's no more than a thousand now. And he's not worried that there'll be more and we'll get rid of the targets. Therefore, they look at where they have the responsibilities, act and regulate the electrical sector to help those who need it the most, instead of continuing to help, compensating and strengthening oligopolises. And he's not so worried around here, that the work is done and he's done well. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.116.0	And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word Mrs Silvia Paneque, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.117.0	Thank you, President. I think that, in the end, the PSC will ask two more minutes, because in all the questions that you take advantage of... I don't know if Mr Cornellà – now I don't see it – will get angry, because in the end they don't talk about his youth, more recently they are questioning the Parliamentary Group of the PSC. In any case, Mr. Villalbí, I'll just say – because I don't have much time – that it's a little gratifying, this paper that you do not accept your own responsibilities and always look at other bands, when it's an undeniable fact that Catalonia is on the cua in renewables. So I'll tell you today. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Cornell, let's get on with this now. Avisat's going, huh? , with their partners; they've already warned him about management models. So, fooled, you're not going. And, of course, you're having fun with this national axis and you don't get it in the end. And it's sad, because the UPC at the end had always been, so a political force that, say, stood before all the institutions, and lately we see them with national ecclesiastes and they didn't just impose themselves on other aspects. In any case, respect for the concrete motion, you know that some of these points we share, among other things because the company deputy Jordi Terrades, at the end of the previous parliamentary term, had precisely presented a motion in terms of energy transition, but there was a concrete point that said: "Recovering the public management of the profits of hydroelectric power stations when the period of administrative concession ended by means of the creation of a public enterprise involved for all the administrations concerned. So it's obvious that at points 1 and 2 we'll give it support. But what are we talking about? Let's talk about a contribution of the god, fifteen per cent to the energy mix in Catalonia, and higher and even higher – from the wind, twenty-five – to the rest of Spain. As green energy has some advantages, as the storage capacity, for example. I'm growing Crecel senor Vergés in uglia esment. Actually, a lot of people say embassements are like big drums. And this is a characteristic that motivates different studies, different technologies to move forward to precisely compensate for the shortcomings that other renewable energies do not have a continued availability. In fact, with data from the Proencat – I believe that Mr. Villalbí also makes reference to it – for the year 2030 the Proencat, respects the hydraulic bombardment, it projects 2,034 megawatts. It is also true that it is a generation of fast energy, with transformation into fast electrical energy. The losses are practically non-existent, between the electricity created and the one that is transferred to the grid – it's about a noun_per_cent – and it doesn't generate residue. In short, it has some advantages with respect to other renewables and, therefore, implies taking this into account in the energy transition. We agree on that, too. If it is also true that it also has negative impacts on the environment, for example, on the ends of rivers and, therefore, on biodiversity. Even though it's also a tool for controlling vengeful in a scene where we find external climate phenomena. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because I think it is worth explaining the impacts on citizenship of the different decisions that we make here in Parliament and that the energy transition – I have said it many times – has costs and has impacts, and it is very important to explain it clearly. We're talking about different conks, too. Tell him... because you always look one way and not the other way. That's what I was saying, isn't it? , this double shaver respects the Generality or the Ministry. But we're talking 450 profits, and sixty-five percent – more or less, huh? – on account of conches managed directly by the Generality; internal conches, where the birth and completion of the river is within the autonomous community and, therefore, directly manages the Generality. Therefore, the two institutions, Ministry and Generality, have to see it. And, to finish – because I see that I only have one minute left – as I said, we have submitted a statement for point 3, which they have not accepted, and will force us to abstain, and make reference to this balance between the two administrations. You've just insisted on looking at one side. Therefore, we shall abstain. And finally, respect point 4, with this one we can't match it in any way. Because you speak on behalf of the General Council of Aran because it is coordinated by a transfer from the Garona basin to the hands of the Government of the Generality, when the previous syndic, Francesc Boya, had already manifested itself in the past or the current syndicate, Maria Vergés..., that what they desire is a collaboration between the three institutions: ministries, through the hydrographic confederation; Generality, through the ACA, and the appropriate General Council. Therefore, institutional collaboration, Mr Cornellà. You say what, who, like, this, right? , would be the plenary session of what, which, like. Who: collaboration between institutions; what: a common good that has no borders, and how: recovery from public management when it is vagina ending these concessions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.118.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, for the Grup Parlamentari VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.119.0	Thank you, President. Deputies... The CUP presents today an initiative to boost the return of hydroelectric plants to the public system. In other words, they're still trying to get the money of all Catalans into that fantasy of public energy enterprise that they've been chasing for a long time. We are dealing with a motion that looks more like the script of a horror film than a serious and dignified proposal for this Parliament. The CUP has us used to bad scripts and, if it weren't for the well-being of Catalans, we would think that we are facing a joke of bad taste. It seems that you like to import misery from abroad based on copying bad recipes from communist states. The universality of a service does not mean that it is public, and public does not mean that it is free. The truth is that we are not surprised that they are unable to understand what I have just told them, as their ideological ally, Mrs. Colau, has already wasted the money of the Barcelona Energy company. Do you know what the result was? I'm telling you. One, the most expensive electricity compared to the big companies. And two, just three thousand customers, out of the twenty thousand who set themselves as targets. Quite a success that you now intend to imitate at the Catalan level. You, the lords of the "no, the communists, the separatists and their PSC crutch, committed to passing on to history as those who led to the destruction of Catalonia. But make one thing clear, we won't leave you. You're already going face-to-face. In the inquiry into this motion, Mr Cornellà referred to this proposal which was part of the national construction plans. In other words, the price of electricity, the warmth of Catalan households and the economic well-being of families really matter to them a cucumber. They only live their tambourine republic, which they well know they won't get. If you really want to achieve cheaper, more efficient, greener energy and with many possibilities of giving us real energy sovereignty for the whole Spanish nation, support nuclear energy. [[Rialles.]] That doesn't just say VOX. The European Commission itself recently recognized nuclear energy as green and as a necessary energy source for the transition to a generation without CO2 emissions. Finally, in purely economic terms, a relatively recent study by Oxford University analyzed hundreds of dams built around the world. Conclusion: Even without accounting for the negative impacts of society and the environment, the actual costs of large dams are too high to generate a positive return. Some private companies have also ruled out hydroelectric projects because they are neither viable nor profitable. I mean, you just want ruin and misery for Catalonia, you want the taxes of all Catalans to be paid something that is not profitable or solves energy problems. Gentlemen of the CUP, this is not the first time I've told you and I'll tell you many times: CUP equals ruin. Finally, in VOX we think that, with a high unemployment rate, with queues of hunger never seen, with an untenable social emergency, Catalan money would be better in their pockets and in quality social services. Leave your inventions, your republic, your ruin agenda and start working for the good of all. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.120.0	Then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.121.0	I'm just going to submit papers so I don't always intervene later, huh? Because that's what we'd have to do in solidarity. [[Rialles.]] Look, there's a book that I think is very interesting, which is that of Andreas Malm, of Fossil Capital, who does an analysis of the industrial revolution and the sources of energy that he used, and explains, in a long enough study that he does, so that hydraulic energy was not the energy on which the industrial revolution was made; although the factories operated with hydraulic energy, they practically replaced all for coal. And he explains, among other things, that basically for two reasons. One, because the hydraulic energy allowed us to carry the factories where there was a working hand and not to do it backwards and, therefore, to carry them to Manchester, to London, where there was a working hand. And the second reason is because it allowed us not to plan or agree between the different factories, because, if one had a sign and used water channels, we would have to agree with when the water channels were opened with the factory that was there before and who paid more than the Reg channel. I think we're at a time when the war and the pandemic are certainly rushing into a future that wasn't very far away, that's thinking about the future not in terms of exasperation, but in need of transformation. That the hydroelectrics are closed in this discussion, because, as a minimum, they affect three questions that are fundamental: the management of water, which will be a bait – and then I will talk about it –; the energetic management, which is already today a bait, certainly in a conjunctural way, but we will see how this situation widens and, in any case, will be scarce in a few decades, and obviously, also of retruc, the management of the complete ecological, and there we have a whole debate with the delta of the Ebro, for example. And it is clear that every time will require more space and democratic instruments of decision-making and management in situations of exaggeration. These days he's gone, and in Catalonia there's one thing that happens when he's done three or four days, which is that the headlines are already changing. And if two weeks ago we were talking about the same and how badly we were going to spend it in the summer, now, as it has been three or four days, we are no longer talking about it, but the data, the 10th of February, were very worrying, with the level of the embassies at fifty_per_cent; under forty_per_cent we could already move from the pre-alert to the alert and start thinking about restrictions. The Ter-Llobregat passed in a year of eighty-yes_per_cent to fifty-sis_per_cent. The Riudecanyes pant is..., it was a week ago at twenty-i-u_per_cent; the Siurana pant, at thirty_per_cent. And this meant, in a few words, that at a later date we would not have water reserves if there was not a cycle of plugs sufficient to supply water reserves in this country and that, at a later date, we would be thinking about how we should manage a situation of water shortage with different uses: with farmers, who need water from the region; with families in this country, who need water from the mouth and water running home; with factories and with the fabric of production, who need water, etc. And today, with the electricity sector, we see a similar situation. And, therefore, we need Catalonia to incorporate all possible public instruments into this democratic decision-making. And obviously, hydroelectrics are one of them. Renewable energies, obviously, will also have to be, and this implies, beyond the paths that Junts wants to place for Catalonia in this debate, that the debate cannot only be who is the dealer of the service; the debate must be who is the manager of the service. Because we've seen it in other autonomous communities, like pantans have been drained, taking advantage that the price of energy is disparate, to get benefits. If we don't have democratic management space, we won't have space to deal with future episodes and present that we are already living and how to manage situations that won't be easy. If we see the climate forecasts of this country, what we find are reports that basically what they find is that Catalonia will be each time more tense in hydraulic terms. Every once less plugs, more torrential and more episodic, but every once less water reserves. And, therefore, we need every possible space. We agree with the CUP's motion, and we need that the investment agreement and the presupposition agreement, which is the public energy undertaking, take shape as soon as possible and we can begin to equip it with institutional space and tools to begin the energy transition in our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.122.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.123.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillor... first of all, a previa. Mr. Ferro, I liked his, say, visit to history and some of the energies that might have launched into the industrial revolution, especially in Catalonia, if yes, the concas were to be at the beginning, so part of this industrial revolution, but surely – and this to introduce this intervention – if you had dealt with public policies at that time, the industrial revolution would certainly not have drawn forward, because surely those facts could not have been used. And here I go a little, therefore, to my defence of what we have always considered to be the balance, the balance between public and private collaboration. I, in this case, to private initiative. We have talked about renewables, we have talked about, say, goodness or all the advantages that hydropower plants have – yes, it is obvious – before other renewable energies, because they do this management – and that is what Mr. Ferro said, and it is true – water in the territory, this territorial management. And, obviously, therefore, these renewable energies that we also have to develop in Catalonia. And it's at this point... we see that this young man's will, at least, is tied to two sons. One is the recovery of these hydroelectric power plants, and the creation, on the other hand, of a public enterprise. What we're saying is they haven't done their dues in the last few years. That's what we said at the time, we said it, and my company Marina Bravo told the councilwoman: she hasn't invested in renewables, in other renewables in Catalonia for the last two years. I'm on the cua. There are other autonomous communities in Spain, such as Aragó, that already export this energy and that, therefore, we already have a problem here. So, the problem, let's say... the mark is this. And with this brand we have to play. What we can't do is what we always do, what it is to go or want to go quickly, without proper planning, without really knowing how much we will cost some of the initiatives that will lead to this Parliament. We are not supporters of the energy public enterprise. I've said it many times and I'll say it again. We're not partisans because we think it doesn't solve any problems. It does not solve the problem of the price of energy, because the price of energy or its, say, origin is not precisely in the management, or whether it is public or private, it is not a question of management, but it is a question of how this energy is generated and the costs and costs involved in the generation of this energy. In the end, it is a matter of knowing that the marginal cost of generating energy will not change because it is public or because it is private, its management. But what's more, what you're looking for with this young man is to get back a whole series of small hydroelectric power stations, which would cost us a lot more to manage and which would ultimately involve public investment, public spending that we're going to have to pay with more taxes. In the end, we'll have to cover it somehow. Catalans will have to pay more to maintain a management that, for us, is not the solution. Therefore, I believe – and we make it clear to the CUP – believe that this energy is not the solution. First – I tell you, too – it's not going to, because with the assumptions and, say, with the reversal that we've seen on the assumptions it's hardly going to make an energy of this type. But it's the same, apart from that, I don't think we will. For us, I think that working, therefore, with these concessions and turning them into genuine public-private collaboration and making sure that the regulation of these centres and their management are the right thing to do. Mr. Vergés spoke before his tenure and management. I believe that a concession, in the end, already ensures that the title was already public. He made the concession. And you've made a difference between management and ownership. Here a little has fooled us or wanted to fool us, because it really is either public management or public management, but it is basically private. And I think that – here we agree with you, you said it in another way, but I think we agree on it – the management has to do it that ensures the efficiency of this, and we believe that this is not what has been talked about. I don't have time for more, but I think this topic could give for much more than for a young man. I suppose he'll talk more about these issues. But we – as I say, Mr Cornellà – will vote for the first point, because in the end it is basically a matter of doing a study. And then we'll vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.124.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.125.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'm doing it from the seat because I'm going to be brief. The Junts MP said he believes the CUP is holding back on this motion. And to me, well, it seems to me that you have to be blind not to see what is the model that defends the CUP. I think we all have it very clearly. In fact, it was one of the key points that they negotiated with Esquerra Republicana to invest Aragonès as president. Mr. Cornellà gives me the reason, because he does. And, therefore, I did not understand the comment very well. I think the model is clear. And that is precisely why we, from the People's Party, are going to vote against it. Because it is not our model, because it is obviously aimed at having a public energy company, towards that place. And I believe that many of the reasons why we are against going towards that model of a public energy company have already been told here this afternoon. I was also commenting on Congressman Lopez's public record that it doesn't mean it's free, and I also add that it doesn't mean it's better either. And the evident proof, precisely, we have with Mrs. Colau's energy – one of the highlights also of her program. And, in the end, what we have seen is that Barcelona's public energy is neither green nor cheaper nor profitable. And, therefore, I insist that he is not our model. And that is why we are voting against all these points today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.126.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.127.0	Well, thank you. To say, as you already know, therefore, that the documents of the Republican Left and of Juntes per Catalunya we have granted them, we have accepted them. And, obviously, because we understand that they improve the text and they do that we share this beginning that we've already started with this public energy and they serve to add and pull forward. And, obviously, then, to the PSC, I already informed Congresswoman Paneque that it couldn't be, precisely because we didn't understand the content of what they were proposing to us. Of everything they have said – I have very little time, but – surprise, or not so much, that Juntas and Ciutadans – and said for Ciutadans, I don't say it – coincide, right? , on the subject of management. They fully coincide in the management of this... they don't just say it, they talk about the private audience, but they're going to the private more quickly, right? They go on to what I started denouncing at first, what the PP and the PSOE did, which was privatized everything..., because they said it would be much more fucked up, and so we are. If you think that private energy is much more cheap, explain it to me, explain it to them in their own way. The lives of my people pay a lot more. And the energetics are private, not public. Therefore, barbarism to say that private is more cheap, better management, less money, and that public, we all know how it goes, means to put public money, etc., this is not true and it has been demonstrated in all these years that privatizing electricity, privatizing the strategic sector was a bottle error. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, we cannot share his vision. The strategic services go..., the strategic sectors go like this because they have to be public and to the service of the citizenry and the interests of the majority, not the minority. And obviously, in the end, we're totally transparent, Salvador. That's what you said. We present this today, but we work because it's all public. We've never fooled anyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.128.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will take a long time to vote on item 29 of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into audiovisual production in Catalan]] [[302-00117/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-and-seventh of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the audiovisual production in Catalan, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left presented. She has the word, to expose her, Mrs. Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.129.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Advisors, MPs, MPs... The audiovisual sector in Catalonia is a strategic sector both for its economic and industrial value and for what it implies for the future of Catalan language. That's why from the Republican Left Group we applaud the firm stance of the Government of the Generality – in particular the Department of Culture, will advise – for this sector. Before I enter the matter, I would like to thank the groups that have submitted allegations..., reviews, I mean, that, in our view, help to improve and complement this young man, and in the later turn, so I will refer to it. For what he does to the young lady, we assign several reps to this young woman, and we fix a few points that seem strategic to us. The first has to do with the need for the Spanish Government to stop discriminating against Catalan in the New Language Economy project, in which the Government of the State will invest €1,100_million. We're talking about a large volume of resources. As the Ministry's own web page describes, "this project is an opportunity to take advantage of the potential of Spanish and informal languages as an economic growth factor and international competitiveness in areas such as artificial intelligence, translation, learning, cultural dissemination, audiovisual production, research and science. Of these 1,100_million euros, only a 2,7_per_cent, is to say, 30_million euros, will go to the català, the eusquera and the gallec; 1,070_million euros to the castle, 30_million euros to the català, the eusquera and the gallec. This – they will convince me – is not a bet for the multilingualism of the State, and even more so if we take into account that forty per cent of the citizenship of this country lives in territories where there is more than one official language. Therefore, ratio 2,7, forty_per_cent, so it is obvious that it is not the one that it is close to. And in this claim and in this struggle we have to be all and all that we are compromised with language, with Catalan language, which, as has been fortunately demonstrated several times in this Parliament, is a vast majority. The motion also welcomes the renewal of the organs of the governing council of the Catalan corporation and the ACC, an essential renewal in order to be able to adapt the public media of the country to the logical communicatives of the 21st century; a renewal that we have the commitment and responsibility that guarantees the independence of these media in coherence with the hope of the law that we approved unanimously in this Parliament the year 2019. Thus, in this case, we urge the Government to look more closely at it, to make a strategic and country visit, as we know is being done, with the audiovisual hub, Catalonia Media City, that from the Esquerra Group we understand that it must be one of the great country projects in the next few years, both for which it will involve for the audiovisual world as well as for which it will involve from the urban point of view for the area of the Three Xemeneies, of Sant Adriana del Besòs. And while it is working with this long look, the Government cannot help but continue to encourage, to continue encouraging the audiovisual production in Catalan language, betting on it with different ways, betting on it economically through the help that the sector has received and that the past year has increased substantially. Therefore, we must continue to bet on these lines of help to the audiovisual sector, but we must also continue to speak and work with all the agents and actors in the audiovisual sector to ensure that the placards, which we have said again and again in this Faristol, are where the public is, where the audience is... And, therefore, we must ensure that in these plataforms there is a minimum audiovisual offer in our language, which, at least, there are a few minimums. Now a few days ago we had this news, this information that Netflix will annually incorporate seventy titles in Catalan language, folded or subtitled. And, therefore, we understand that it is a first step, that it is an insufficient step, but that, in any case, it is a first step. And, finally, we would like to place the importance that the Government is pushing forward the Catalan audiovisual law, which must also be made with the logic of the 21st century, seeking consensus as wide as possible, because from the Republican Left Group we understand that this cannot be a law of either party or government, but it must be a law of the country. Although this audiovisual law departs with a text that takes into account the defence of Catalan language, yes, but it also has a clear feminist perspective, which takes into account, among other questions, the impact certain contents may have on the younger public. And, therefore, we understand, therefore, that this must be a law of broad consensus. And I finish as I started by confirming the Group d'Esquerra's commitment to the audiovisual sector, thanking the Members and Members, therefore, the proposals presented, which will improve and help to complement this motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.130.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, first place, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.131.0	Thank you, President. I have come to defend some amendments that have been ignored, so we will vote in bloc against the whole motion. We are witnessing here the umpteenth sustenance and not the amendment of the disastrous and failed linguistic and audiovisual policy of the Generalitat Processista. It's hard to taste. But today they bring to debate and vote a motion with the self-proclaimed objective of favoring audiovisual production in Catalan, noble objective if in your mentality you could not even conceive of a defense of Catalan that is not at the expense of Spanish, which is as official language of Catalonia as Catalan and Spider and, moreover, the own language, mother tongue and, yes, of creation and even audiovisual consumption of more than half of the population. In this motion you take for granted many things that are either directly not so or could be much better if you overcome the trauma, the vertigo that makes you Spanish. Because all of you, from first to last, are Spanish. Moreover, I do not know if you have noticed that the most powerful weapon you have, that we have in our hands to promote Catalan, whether in schools, in Netflix or in Hollywood, is that Catalan is a Spanish language, an official language of a cultural and creative power such as Spain, and that all Spain should and could work enthusiastically in favour of Catalan in Spain, in Europe and in the rest of the world just with you to stop shooting yourself after shooting at the foot. I hope that your pettyties and politics, your branches and your phobias will only affect you and not a language, our languages, which is universal and common heritage. So good for you the català was not the axis of the shots of his hatred against Spain, of his inferiority complex before a world every time more digital and harder to glue with political pressures, cremated flags, families assigned to the schools and institutional advertising massively installed to serve a sectarian agenda. We try to look at us with affection and with interest this motion, since the subject interests us, and much. With the optimism that characterizes us we are presenting amendments that, if accepted, would improve much not the motion itself, but the effective possibilities of the audiovisual production of Catalonia, of the whole of it, in the world. We knew that they would not accept one of us, because that would be as much as recognizing that their cultural and audiovisual policy is what it is: a monument to bad milk, rather than ambition. But at least it is clear that what we propose here is possible, that it is clear that there is another way of doing things. In fact, we have already had this debate, because it is a recurring debate. It changes the argument, but not the theme of the work, which is again and again: is Catalonia better defended by attacking Spain and spitting out Catalan culture in Spanish? Or is a free and complex Catalonia better defended within a plural, liberal, modern, and large Spain? We have tried over and over again to turn your petty little letter, for that, into big letter. Where you are satisfied with calling for the promotion and internationalization of the Catalan language, we call for the promotion and internationalization to death of all the audiovisual production of Catalonia, whether in the official language or in the official language, and for the political, economic and cultural resources of the whole of Spain, which are many, to serve this objective, to be expressed as a lemon. But, of course, in terms of cooperation, not confrontation. The language of Catalonia is the sectarian game of yours; it is the treasure of all and as we must preserve it. We overlook the macabre joke that the motion suggests celebrating the renewal of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation, since, apart from the flaming new occupants of its control organs, who with two fingers at the front has nothing to celebrate in this political pie. Stop asking that the « body continue to assume the mandate of this Parliament to be the engine of audiovisual production in Catalonia, as if it had ever been. Quite a flu engine, which only serves to anoint the producers of the diet. Put your batteries on, imitate the BBC, not the Telemadrid of Ayuso. They really encourage audiovisual production in all languages. They allocate resources not to build client culture networks, but to create structures for the future. Make Catalonia attractive for audiovisual creators and consumers. Work with passion, greatness and seriousness for everyone's culture, and you will see how the future comes alone. That said... català is a Spanish language, and this is its great strength, which has not only all of Catalonia, but all of Spain behind it. The future should be ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.132.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mrs Rocio Garcia has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.133.0	President, councillors, deputies and deputies, late afternoon. We want to highlight, once again, all our support for the audiovisual sector, the talent of the creative industry and audiovisual production, video games, documentary and cinema in Catalonia and in Catalonia. It is an innovative economic sector, with more than two thousand businesses, which generates twenty thousand direct jobs. It is an industry that continues in expansion and full of opportunities and needs the collaboration of everyone, public administrations and the Government of Catalonia especially. That's why we're picking up this young man, even though, with the ideas he's taken, we think he's a little ambitious. The Catalan audiovisual field has many challenges and opportunities, but it will only advance if it has understood, dialogue and agreement. The catalan and the aranes need these agreements and these pacts. We are on the side of the audiovisual and cinema sector. Before and now we're working on his projection. We have often had to defend the audiovisual sector before the governments of the Generality, which have given it very little support. Today we reaffirm ourselves in our recognition, because they are art, they are culture, talent and creation and at the same time one of the key tools for designing the modern, innovative and creative Catalonia that we have outside. And the public sector and the private sector go hand in hand. It can generate opportunities and create new occupations and develop the territory, such as the audiovisual hub and Catalonia Media, which are presenting us and for which we are also collaborating. Also with fairness and a gender perspective. And I'm glad you're here, too, because the digital sector of video games, cinema and the Catalan audiovisual creation lends a great perspective to women's talent. Rebate awards are only an exhibition of the full potential of catal cinema for women and with the presence of women throughout the creative and production chain. We take the opportunity to congratulate the selected films and directors and actors and guardians. We all think they've done a great job. They've had a lot of support from the generality over the past few years, as we were also able to listen to the Gaudí Awards gala. Now this has to be reversed. The generality has not helped the sector during the past decade. That's what they're telling us. We're celebrating that this talent now has the support it deserves. The presupposition of the ICEC of 2022 is certain that it has grown, but it must follow the new increments. And that is why we have proposed, and accepted, an attempt to create this report, this presentation of an annual report with detailed help, which will be presented to the Committee on Culture. Moreover, with the reinforcement of the Catalan and the Aranese, the cultural rights of the citizenry are also effective, as a key element for the creation of wealth, of places of work and the impulse of creativity. And so we think that the Government of Spain has understood it when it has promoted a "New Language Economy", one of the strategic projects for the economic recovery and transformation of Spain. Can we ask for more ambition? I'd just miss it. And so is the government of Catalonia, because you complete the skills that you are... well, we have to ask, because they're not all complete, and you know it. From here we also propose a theme, which they have accepted, and it is also that the law of communication of the audiovisual of Catalonia is present and entered the Parliament in this year 22, and so we celebrate it. Miri, we would not wish to fail to express our surprise before the excessive and almost bronze of the inquiry. I told the deputy without saying it, and I think I should say it. It cannot be said that the Spanish coalition government is not very progressive – this cannot be said – nor that it has all the compromise with the co-official languages, because it is uncertain and far from the reality. He's negotiating, too. There's still more to present, and there's still a way to do it. So what we're asking of him is that he also completes the 2019 report of the Language Platform on the failure of the Government of the Catalan Film Law. It does not reach the five-per-cent presence of the català. We also have a way to go here. And I would appeal, we would appeal to this co-responsibility of all administrations to advance the Catalan language, the Arabic language to the Aran, and to build great agreements that advance the country. We believe that we can defend the positions in defense of the presence of català in the audiovisual production of plataformas, as is being done, and that this we must do with this young man and in all the way that remains to be done, that we believe this young man also has a basis for further progress. That's what we think we're approving today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.134.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.135.0	Thank you, President. In Comú You can always find us for what makes institutional support to cultural action, it is produced in the language that follows, but always from the respect of the principle of positive discrimination of the Catalan language. It's not just because it's obviously Catalonia's own, as established by the Statute, but because it's in the state of emergency, as on repeated occasions Platform for Language has let us know. And, in fact, based also on the work developed by this entity, we have set up some of the items that we have set up for this young man. A Golden Os had to come to Catalonia because we are adamant of the import of cinema in català, mass often ignored, underfunded and forgotten by Catalan administrations, as on repeated occasions it was revealed during the Gaudí Awards gala. The same Government is asking itself to reaffirm support and recognition for the Catalan audiovisual sector. The audiovisual sector, meanwhile, continues to demand a better picture of its situation, an increase in public funding, which is now far removed from the European public support standards for the sector. In fact, the Government has on the table a decáleg driven by the Platform for Language with the support of the Academy of Cinema Català, the Audiovisual Cluster of Catalonia, of February 14, 2021, since a year ago. And, among other things, they want to engage new digital platforms in Catalonia and create a large catal audio-visual core with platforms and technological parks; ensure the doubling and subtitle to the catal of series and films to all the plataforms; open a youth channel with corporate resources; review the law; recreate an audio-visual coordination organ and communication media; compliment Catalonia's film law, and update the existing audiovisual legislation of the cinema with a new law. Left Republican, which is leading the Government of Catalonia, asks that the State favor cultural and linguistic diversity, with which we agree and are absolutely sure that we will achieve it. But now it does not apply or make complete the linguistic articles of the law of cinema, approved two years ago. Platform for Language has already taken up the issue, in fact, in November 2021, and the president replied that the fault was the state's lack of support for deploying the law. This law, which was approved in 2010, determines that at least fifty_percent of the commercial films projected at the cinemas in Catalonia must be in Catalan, a result reduced to twenty-i-five_percent after the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017. In addition, it obliges distributors to ensure that, from all films that have opened up in catalá to Catalan sales, it sends this version to all distribution channels. And about all this is happening, as found in different studies on the situation of the catalá in digital plataforms, such as Netflix. With our reviews we have incorporated the need to allocate parts of the LOANS to the promotion of different official languages to the castle. In fact, it is envisaged and approved by the Council of Ministers of March 1 of this year. We want, however, to go a step further, and that the Consulting Council of PERTE has integrated people and entities linked to the promotion of languages, in the field of culture, technology and the audiovisual world. Because there is no promotion of language without people accompanying it and introducing it across all spheres. We celebrate the momentum of an audiovisual hub that focuses on Catalan production and in catalá, as well as the commitment to promote and strengthen the audiovisual industry, encouraging the creation of all types of audiovisual content produced, doubled, subtitled in catalá and occità. It's funny, though, that it's up to you yourselves to complete a law that you're not fulfilling right now. We are impatient to see what specific increase of the assumption will be allocated to a line of help in the sector and how much it will triage to arrive. Our feeling is that, as we said, you have to come to Alcarrás and all the talent in women, certainly, because the government is putting the piles with our cinema in català. In any case, we will give support to most of the points of this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.136.0	Thank you. I, finally, in the defense of the papers presented, has the word now the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.137.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Here we have a Movement of Esquerra, government party, which is difficult not to vote in favour of it, because there is a consensus on the monumental deficit in the Catalan audiovisual. What we're talking about, though, is omissions, what this young man is missing. Obviously, I'm talking about the items that have not been accepted, because often the one who doesn't speak speaks as much or more than the words say. The two who have accepted us are much smaller, but we thank them. One will allow us, in fact, to vote against celebrating what was the methodology in which the corporation was renewed, but in change, we can vote in favour of its functions. But the three that have rejected are a few items with a different political content, very substantial. One, the one referring to point 5, this point which demanded that the increase of the game of Culture is intended for promotion, to the subsidies of the audiovisual; we asked for quotas for the Occitan language. Actually, what's going on with you guys? Because it's so obvious. At the occidental, much as we fill our mouths to recognize the rights of the occidental to the Aran, if we do not determine them presupposition and do not determine quotas, it does not serve absolutely nothing. That the Aran is being pocketed doesn't mean his rights are being smaller. The second question, the second question which they have not incorporated and which will force us to vote against point 3. And it's not because we're against an audiovisual hub. What we are against is that this audiovisual hub, which is obviously that in order to enhance the research and innovation of audiovisual production we will be in favour..., what we cannot admit in any way is that you link the PDU of the Three Xemeneies, the PDU of the Three Xemeneies of the Besòs. Because, even though you haven't put this in the office, you said it when you did the interview and the deputy said it today when she defended it. Ours was a very simple preventive matter. Deia: "The hub of the audiovisual will have to include, among its concrete objectives, respect and positive influence at the social, economic, natural and heritage level of the territory where it is located. And, explicitly, it will be necessary that the audiovisual hub does not go into or cover up any urban operations like the one proposed by the current PDU of the Three Xemeneies of the Besòs, currently in progress. And you said, they said that it will be known as Catalonia Media City, that it will be located in the Three Xemeneies of Sant Adrià and the importance that it can assume for the urban development of this area. Clearly, what we were trying to do was to separate these two vectors. Because you make it clear, but the Besòs territory also makes it very clear that this PDU, to which you want to associate the hub of the audiovisual, hinges on the maximization of the most urbanized of a disproportionate front built in flood zone, which does not respond to any social, economic or ecological needs of the municipalities; which contravenes the urban regulations, environmental protection and adaptation and resilience of the coast to the climate change. And it's obvious that the threat that this part of the coast has is not this hub, but it's the PDU, and if you link it, so, this... one thing will make the other go to hell. And now we're going for the third. Ah, the third... that you did not accept the third theme, indeed, the stripe in front of the country, and the more today that you have perpetrated the resignation for ever more to the linguistic immersion and the defense of the català. Its claudication, opening the door for the Catalan language to stop being the vehicle language to the schools. See what the message said 8: "Continue negotiating the reform of the audiovisual law during its transfer to the Congress of Deputies, given the clear inadequacy of the draft law presented for the Spanish Government and the compromise acquired for the PSOE in favor of the normalization of minority languages such as Catalan to the à la carte video platforms. Can't they just accept that? Do they have to be renegade by the government? Indeed – indeed – today you have done, the Government of Esquerra and Juntes, with PSC and common, have initialed a death sentence. « The jutjats accelerate the tools against linguistic immersion in català. The autonomous government, once more, obeying and submissive, is only carrying a forty-year strategy and favoring the minority of the catalá. A step closer to replacing the català for the castle, blessed for its autonomous government. Words of Blanca Serra, a movement referent. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.138.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, Counselors, Members of Parliament. Today the Republican Left Group presents us with a motion in its usual line, in order to promote its ideal of linguistic nationalism based on huge amounts of public money. The truth is that in this motion we are mixed with a whirlwind of ideas around the Catalan audiovisual sector, all aimed at increasing the fiscal looting of Catalans to subsidize their associates and continue to increase the political industry, instrumentalizing Catalan. A language that they do not hesitate to use in a party form, creating a false collective imaginary where the Catalan language is the only uniting element of Catalans. Look, using the Catalan language as the only unifying element of Catalans and the basis of a supposed parallel identity is not to understand in depth what catalanity is, which, by the way, you do not hesitate to prostitute for your own rupturist political benefit. Catalan is only spoken in Catalonia, yes, but Catalonia is not only spoken in Catalonia. If they want Catalans to be a united people again, they abandon once and for all the idea that catalanity grows around a language, because, frankly, catalanity is so much more than that. Catalanity is Hispanicity, and Catalanity is a fundamental part of the great common project with universal destiny that is Spain. [[Some applause and remorse of voices.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the motion. Since VOX, of course, we are not going to vote in favour of this motion. And not because we don't like audiovisual production in Catalan, but for two reasons, mainly. First of all, with the serious social shortcomings facing the Catalans, we believe that public money should be allocated as a matter of priority to meet these needs. And, secondly, by an obvious fact, and it is that Catalan culture is no longer Catalan to be done in Catalan. And I will give you several examples: filmmaker Isabel Coixet has won several awards for audiovisual pieces in Spanish; the Gerundian writer José María Gironella wrote The Cypresses believe in God, in Spanish, and is one of the great works of contemporary Catalan literature. Or in the same way did the Barcelonan Eduardo Mendoza or Joan Boscà, one of the great poets of the Renaissance, at the height of the great letters of the Spanish Golden Age. In short, separatist gentlemen, you do not want quality audiovisual pieces to grow in Catalan culture. You want to buy the Catalan audiovisual sector by subsidizing what with public money to produce content at the service of your particular ideology and discriminate against the Spanish language, which is as genuine as Catalonia is. They add to this motion a point where they want the Parliament of Catalonia to celebrate the distribution of seats and millionaire positions that have been divided between socialists and separatists. Look, I'm sure... The truth is that whoever is sure to celebrate it is going to be the next president of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, Rosa Romà, of Esquerra Republicana, who is going to charge a salary of 116,000 euros a year. Or the rest of the members of the Socialist Party and Junts that make up the governing council of the corporation and that also each will charge this astronomical salary of 112,000 euros each. And while you are celebrating the looting and ruin of the Catalans, while you are celebrating the unnecessary waste and ideological spending, thousands of carriers are on strike for the increase in fuel prices. As you celebrate the feast of waste, thousands of Catalans have thrown themselves into the streets this Saturday by the union Solidarity calling for an end to the tax ban. The prices of the shopping cart are fired, the bill of light only goes up, while wages and pensions are becoming more precarious every day. Separatists and socialists, while celebrating their feast of ruin and waste, from VOX we will be next to the workers, the students, the self-employed, the transporters, the families, the people of the sea and the countryside, asking for their resignation and social justice. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.140.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.141.0	Yes, thank you, President. Under the seat, although I will also be brief, because many of the things that we were going to say have already been said by other groups, but the truth is that I would like to start with a preview, and it is a criticism of this custom that the parties that support the government to come here, question themselves and then bring us motions. I don't know if you're getting confused. This is Parliament. This is not Tuesday's governing council, which is where you have to make your decisions and carry them out, and not come here to bring us motions to say that you will present before the end of the year the audiovisual communication law. Then do it. Don't come here, bring him in and put him to a vote. Honestly, it's just that I don't understand this way that you have to waste all of our time and to stand in evidence. If you want to do something, do it, which is why you are the Government of Catalonia. Just that, I don't really understand – and then we have another motion going the same way – this way of wasting our time, not the Members we are here, the Catalans. Because here we come to discuss other things for which the Government of Catalonia has no competence to do the same for itself, which it should, or is not, within its programme. But, come on, I insist: bring things here like they're going to bring a law... bring the law. Don't bring a motion and make us all waste our time. That on the one hand. And then, on the other, sincerely... And this criticism perhaps also extends to the lords of the commons, who are also in the Government of Spain, who come here, present an amendment, point 1a, where they speak of the PAST. You say that the loss of a «New economy of the language, therefore, has to be dedicated – said – in your gruix, to promotions of the co-official languages, etcetera.. Well, I don't know if it's that you... I don't know if it's ignorance or that you're not in the case of what's going on or that you just, I insist, come here to make requests that you know perfectly well that you're not going to have to go through, with the resulting frustration. The new economics of the language, the PERTE, is based on five strategic axes. The first, knowledge in Spanish and co-official languages – which here could enter your point – but is that the next four – artificial intelligence in Spanish, science in Spanish, learning Spanish and cultural industries... If you do not agree with the content and strategic axes of the PERT, you are part of the Government of Spain, which has approved this PERT. Frankly, it is that, I insist, come here and ask for things that you know perfectly well that you have the competence to do what in the institutions where you play, for what you want me to say to you. Or even come here to criticize instruments that you yourself have supported from the government. No, I didn't understand. It doesn't make much sense, and I think it simply responds to a pure postureum. And nothing else. More things that come in this motion and that, honestly, I don't know if they're a hairdo anymore. That is, we are asked to celebrate the renewal of the Governing Council of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Well, that's what I was playing. It was just that the council had to be renewed. What do we do, pat ourselves on the back? "How good we have done, that we have done one thing that touched. That Mrs. Llorach was in office longer than she was in office. And we come here to what, to applaud us? What good do we do everything? It's just, honestly, doesn't it seem a little even childish to you, a little childish? And on top of that we will applaud ourselves, "how well we do it, but tomorrow, that there is « body, tomorrow that there is Commission of the Audiovisual Media Corporation of Catalonia, it turns out that they do not come, it turns out that there is no session of control because the members of the board of this commission have decided to give them a period of grace. I wonder if to collect the salary they also have the grace period or that they are already collecting it. It's just that you honestly don't have... me, really... no shame that you guys include a point here to celebrate absolutely nothing. We are going to vote against the vast majority of these points. Look, I insist, do the work where he plays. We've got the Culture Advisor here. A few days ago we knew that the Netflix platform will include in this year 2022 seventy series and films in Catalan, and that it has been thanks to the work and conversations with the Council of Culture. And that's what they have to do. I insist, not to come here to bring things that are the same as the governing council and not the same as the Parliament of Catalonia. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.142.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.143.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... you know, we're voting for this young man, but let's take advantage of it to go a little further, because the kind of communication space that Catalonia needs may need little gesticulation and more facts. He knew that in Joan Fuster he said that all politics that we did not fess in favor of Catalonia would be fete against Catalonia. And we like, in this case, to remember that all the law that is not done in Catalonia and in favor of the català will be done in Madrid, in Spain, against the català. Therefore, let's say that we have said so many times, that the best thing about the Spanish audiovisual law is to approve the Catalan audiovisual law once and for all. And for that reason, they are calling for political changes. So, what's the first place? Enough to give credit to the Spanish government. Enough to give him credit. We know that this government, like all the governments that have done so far, when it's about Catalonia, they're liars, they take our hair. And, therefore, at some point we will have to stop listening because of nothing. And I want to give you some examples. How many pressing wheels have we done to manage European foundations? I remember three. Do you know what we've managed? Zero. How many press wheels have we seen when we armored the català? I remember two. It's obvious they haven't armored the català. Certainly, Mrs Dolors Sabater, she knows that neither this Member nor this parliamentary group will die or say anything against linguistic immersion ever. Let those who think that we may be in an action of these characteristics be forgotten. [[Some applause.]] And three: shielding the Catalan school. How many wheels of press have we done when we armored the Catalan school? How many articles have we felt? I remember, press wheels too, with the least, two. And, curiously, in the last few days – and that might or might not be certain – we have also felt that we cannot admit relations with governments that are not democraticly standardized. I, who knows I'm passionate about international relations and geopolitics, say this is fake, it's deeply fake. Only an illiterate could say that. Because, precisely, one of the people I admire most in international mediation always explains that precisely those normalized democracies are those that we can hold as referents, but we do not need to dialogue, and with those that we need to dialogue to do politics, to transform and to improve are all those spaces where precisely democracy is not normalized. Therefore, with a logic of international relations, this statement is profoundly empty and, I say, full of illegrations. And, in addition, if we say that we limit our relations to full democracy, what do we do to support and rehabilitate the Spanish government? Because doing one thing and doing the other, this or Zara's jackets the seams can't stand it – this. It's impossible. That doesn't hold up. Because, in the end, the current state is where we call the 78th rule, and already from its own creation the Spanish Constitution already denies us as such and already makes us not even able to federate to recognize the linguistic reality of the Catalan countries. Therefore, everything we do to postpone the independence project puts the Catalan language, culture and birth in danger. And there's still another question we want to explain. We value, we value our institutions. If we need a law, if we need to make a law, where do we have to do it if it's not here? Do we have to do it? And if, above all, some of the times they say to us, it's not going to be good if we do it here... Home, tell us the partners, it's not going to be good? They say they're the ones who'll be disabled, who's not going to be okay? So, then, why are we partners and we're off the hook, if it's not going to be okay? We say to them: to us, what concerns us is to really build and consolidate a communication space close to Catalonia. And that's neither doing Spanish television nor laughing at Sixth. It is only done by consolidating the audiovisual media, consolidating the communication media close to this country. A young woman is not here. Too bad, please, from seagull to dungeon. Together for Cat we have felt alone, much, much more alone with the law of Catalan audiovisual. That this motion means a point of inflection. Proper mermaid song from the Spanish government. We're already doing the audiovisual law. The rest, siren songs and promises that are ultimately never fulfilled. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.144.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parable of Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.145.0	Thank you. Actually, I don't even know where to start, because for a moment I lost myself and thought I had filed a motion in international politics, didn't I? When I was a young man in the audiovisual field. Therefore, various questions. It's very important, the Catalan audiovisual law. It's so important that the government is handling it. It is so important that it must be a law, as we say, that neither party nor government, but a law of country, because here we coincide with the importance. Because this connects with what Congresswoman Sabater said: the Catalan language is defense with the great consensus, as it passed to the eighty years with linguistic immersion and now, therefore, with this other great consensus, which is important, and more before the attacks of the right, before the attacks of justice. We need more than ever a great consensus of the country in order to defend the Catalan language. [[Some applause.]] Then, well, I wanted to thank the common people for the presentations, which, in fact, we have all accepted. We have also accepted very many of the SGPs; we disagree and it is clear that we all have to assume responsibilities and in politics it is up to us to assume responsibilities. It's worth saying yes, that for a long time things haven't been right. I'm sure they won't get over it, will they? , because ultimately managing is making decisions and making mistakes many times. And, therefore, we all have to take responsibility. But you too to the state government, and here too we ask you to give us a hand. We've put the LOSS data on the table: 1,100_million; from these, only 30 to the català. Therefore, we do have a repte and we hope, therefore, that it is shared in order to be able to work it. And the political strategy of each of them to achieve the goals, so you decide each of them. Republican left opted for the negotiating route. It's our way, I'm very aware of who we have in the other gang. And in any case, the strategy of Republican Esquerra is clear, we explained it. We respect other strategies. I think we all need to respect one more thing, because the object is shared. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.146.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to take a long time to get a solid number 29 on the order of the day. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the International Day of Donations and the fight against aesthetic pressure]] [[302-00118/13]] Let's now move on to the twenty-eight point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the International Day of Donations and the fight against the aesthetic pressure, which the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has presented. She has the word, to expose her, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.147.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, with the same intention that we presented the inquiry two weeks ago, we present this motion today another time, so, to take a vote. Despite the fact that I looked bad at the PP, the parliamentary groups that we support the Government also have a right to take their own initiative with the parliamentary group. So, let's vote on a motion on some issues that you have to deal with with the aesthetic pressure. The first is, therefore, once again, to close the compromise of this Parliament and make it appear, right? , which has a compromise to fight against the aesthetic pressure, as it is another form of expression more than male violence, which is a tool of control of the system and which this system, as always, in all areas of our daily life, of our private life, of our public life, has two ways; not only a biax of gender, but a biax of class, a biax of origin, a biax of condition of racialization. And that, therefore, this aesthetic pressure has many other forms, doesn't it? , and many other rapes and other areas of discrimination that interact. Because, in fact, the woman's beauty ideal is inexhaustible, it's inexhaustible to everyone, and it has an impact on self-esteem. It has an impact, as we said two weeks ago, on the self-perception of what we have. It also has an impact on mental salvation. And, therefore, this also impacts above all on a joint venture of society. It obviously impacts on men and women, but especially it has this impact of eating disorders in the case of women, as well as children and adolescents. And, therefore, in this case, what we are trying to do is to put on the table a subject that affects us all, affects us all in society, that has to fight it between all of us. And, therefore, we have made a battery of proposals that go from communication means to the representation of the diversity of the bodies, the image that we also project from institutions and that is, in the end, miraculous of children, adolescents and women. And precisely for this reason, because the representation of the bodies in the public sphere is important, because it generates referents... And, in fact, we could also talk about the rights we have, right? When we stage television in the media, we have right to find those references that the heteronormative, white women have always held in the television box; whenever we have looked at the magazines, we have found them. But how many other children, how many other women could not find themselves in these referents! And that's why we ask different areas of private and public sectors, such as the fashion industry, such as advertising, such as communication media, hostesses, sports federations, and a concrete point about corporate collaboration, which we're talking about now, right? , from this perspective of gender that we need also to have the law of the audiovisual. Finally, to focus on prevention, because it is obvious that when we talk about aesthetic pressure, when we talk about the impact that it has on the mental salvation of children and women, when we talk about the impact that it has on our self-perception of the body, when we talk, in short, about how it affects us in mental salvation – and it can result in eating disorders, but not only – we are already talking about a structural problem that we have not come to. And, therefore, to talk about prevention, as always, we go to the scene of the problem, which is in education, which is in this education, which is in this will, right? , to educate without gender stereotypes, not to rely on gender stereotypes and, therefore, to make all these roles disappear, which also pass through the aesthetic pressure. And, therefore, the educational environment is one of the food fish, isn't it? Beyond advertising, communication media, sports federations, women's sports uniforms, especially. It's obvious that all this is important, but when we get to this point in the adult life of many women, it means that we bring to the scenes, so, a whole word that all of society is telling us how to be this ideal of beauty, these canons of beauty that are inexhaustible. And, therefore, with this will we have presented these points, which are also based on the plan announced by the Government, right? , to combat the aesthetic pressure. And in this sense, therefore, willing to listen to the interventions of all groups. And on the next day, I'll talk about the papers. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.148.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, Mrs Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.149.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Counsel... Indeed, the aesthetic pressure on women, young women and children is, as the first lady says, a more expressive form of male violence. The bombardment of images of women's bodies that repel society is unmatched and utterly eroded. The things we used to see in advertising, in communication media, in movies or in the appearance of singers, models, actors or, to take it to the extreme, in pornographic websites respond to a stereotyped and unnatural pattern, which has nothing to do with different things, which are the norm. The problem is that these images, you repeat one time and another, end up having a pernicious effect on the organizing models that we have in our mind. These organizing models condition what we perceive through our senses. For example, we see a woman in a miracle – ourselves – and we inevitably compare her with the organizing model we have in mind, in thought. And, of course, the image of the Mirall we perceive deformed: mass fat, with the nose thick, with the eyes small, with the hair heavy. And this fact can – and, in fact, does – lead to sudden or well chronic discomfort. This is difficult at any age, but it is especially difficult during childhood and adolescence. Adolescence is a period of many changes, a period in which neuronal pruning is produced and, therefore, an extremely sensitive period, especially for emotional discomfort and, very concretely, for conflict with the subject. How ever, from my group we've been missing the point of reference to the hypersexualization of teenage girls and children, this is where we've done our homework. Hypersexualization is the obsession to highlight the attributes that are related to sex above all other qualities that an individual may have. One of the main promoters of these stereotypes are communication media, which, unfortunately, have a great cultural and social background. This phenomenon has recently been seen as an object of study in the field of sociology and psychology, since there has been a very rapid increase in hypersexualization in our society at global level and, more often than not, without the company's own giving. In 2001, David Cameron's British Government's Ministry of Education commissioned a study on sexualization and commercialization of childhood to Reg Bailey, who was the first executed director of the Mothers' Union, who certainly ranked him as a man to demonstrate that parents also had to be involved in the cure of creatures. The outcome of the pregnancy was known as the Bailey report, which, in addition to explaining the concept of hypersexualization, to which I referred a moment ago, also says: "The current society is full of sexual images. Some families, not all of them, are aware of this fact, but at the same time they are unable to act against it. The Bailey report also warns of the perils of the fact that the infantess is each time more erotized and where the main victims are usually the children. And it's that this hypersexualization has something to do with the woman's role as a sexual object, and the age goes by when children are forced to take roles and stereotyped behaviors, which, among many other reasons of their inconvenience, has been, in this case. The consequences of child development are drastic: low self-esteem, frailty, vulnerability, depression, anxiety, among others. In this way, they will become women, more vulnerable adults, more manageable. For all this, we have incorporated the following elements into the motion: to avoid hypersexualization, especially in minors; to age to eliminate hypersexualization of children to advertising, and to campaign to alert the families of the hairdresser to children as if they were adults. Certainly, this item has changed slightly, but it also serves us as it has been written. For all this, my group will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.150.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.151.0	Thank you, President. Today... well, today, he forgives, this year, on March 8, the Generality and the Council have chosen to focus his main policy, which they have announced, on the subject of aesthetic pressure, that we would almost talk about aesthetic slavery, right? I believe that, in the previous question that was made, there were many examples of how this pressure/slavery affects above all women, as conditioned by the vision that we have of the property, the way in which it conditions also as we relate to others, to other people. There was, then, wasn't there? , a study for the Rebellion of the Body that says that the physical image in a women's norm affects their relationship with their own self and with their own life. And that up to eighty-six percent of the women have stopped doing something for the consideration they had of their own. "I don't put this bather on me, "I don't go to this, "I don't do this activity, "I don't put it on me this way, because the thing we have doesn't fit or doesn't fit, and I suppose, in the end, an obstacle for us to develop our full fullness. The messages bombard us with very small ones, and that's what we mothers are, isn't it? And we've tried to avoid it, and that we're mothers of children, we've certainly found that, much as we try to avoid it, it's practically impossible to escape from it. So from the girls, the Barbies, with those absurdly and anatomically impossible ones, from the Disney princesses and the different protagonists of animation films, that are all, absolutely all, premium. I mean, we could see a certain racial diversity in some of the films, but there is absolutely no protagonist that is fat, no one. Perhaps now the last of Pixar, with Charm, is a girl who doesn't have a thing so first, neither so well formed nor so well done, but it's absolutely all very first. I think that now too, and when children and children are already, above all – but also children, it's true –, they join the world of the gangs, don't they? When you enter pre-adolescence and adolescence, the pressure of all the people who speak and you can find if you enter TikTok, if you enter Twitter, if you enter a lot of applications..., many posts about how to diet, how to exercise, how to take care of yourself, how to take care of your hair, how to take care of your nails, how you don't know, and how it goes, basically, above all, addressed to women. Therefore, the aesthetic pressure affects above all women, who, more than the mental load we already carry for the cures, above all, to be in charge of the cures, to the band of the hours of dedication, above all of mental load, which takes care of us practically all day, more, to this mental load we must add the mental load on the physical aspect and on how we take care of ourselves. And, if we normally already have stress and fatigue with work, we have to add that we lie down and that we have to diet. And if it's not because it's down the summer, it's because somehow you've got your hair worked up or the sizes start to be smaller every time, and that's when you're stuck in a forty-two, a forty-four, now it's a forty-sy or it's a forty-night. So we're all obsessed, we're on diets, we're buying a lot of herbal products and we're falling for all the propaganda that bombards us all over the place, that if we don't rush, we're not fitting in. That's all before, it's before when food disorders are present. We find that there is a whole pressure that leads you to that, if you don't complete with this, this pressure can end up drifting into a disruption, it can end up drifting into a mental health problem. And with the pandemic, we've seen how it got worse and accentuated, and we're reading many times about the help of all the staff who are in charge of mental health in Catalonia, who say to us..., and above all about mental health focused on young people and children, because every time they are before, the disruptions; if they were earlier in adolescence, the end of adolescence, now we're having disruptions in many children of two and eleven years old. These alert criteria that we have are not finding a sufficient response that is concrete with resources. And that's why our reviews have been above all concrete in resources and calendars. And with mental salvation there is not enough with a plan. I'm sure we all have a woman's tweet from the Nuria who denounced how her daughter was admitted two times for being about to die of malnutrition and how she couldn't get a response from the system. And I think it's worth reading his sentence: "I have because my daughter is dead. More than I do because it's dying out of the system's desire. Anorexia is very complicated and very expensive to cure, but I hope I don't have the option of getting a treatment that can help her more and that we don't have money to pay her for the private. Therefore, the thought of a public psychologist, when we are asking that what is to be guaranteed is a continuous psychological attention, not that I give you quotes from here to three months and after one month of follow-up, and after two months, after another. What we are asking for with continued attention, this, is to face the effects of the aesthetic pressure. Counselor, and the republican group, it seems to us that it is a mesure maca, but it is a mesure of speeches, it is a mesure that does not involve resources, that does not involve the problem of mental salvation. And, as someone said to Councilman Cambray, fewer speeches and more resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.152.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Ester Vallès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.153.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs... after March 8th, this young man fights the aesthetic pressure that children, teenagers and women suffer. We want to thank Congresswoman Jenn Diaz for accepting all the ideas that are geared towards prevention and education to combat this aesthetic pressure; a pressure in the form of an impossible and unbreakable canon of beauty, which, as a matter of fact, generates enormous frustration and replenishment for the individual throughout his life. It's deeply alarming to see how eleven-year-olds worry about the shape of their body, to get better, from the measurements of the evils, the pits, the keys. They can't normalize it, and they can't accept it much less. If we were already concerned about a study done years ago for functional psychiatrist James Greenblatt, who asked seven_ thousand teenagers about their concerns and related to health problems and benevolence, we were shown that a sixty-three_per_cent of the children had to get angry, while only one twenty-i-sis_per_cent had to develop a breast cancer... It was necessary to pay attention, therefore, to the priorities and pores of the children, that come, sense doubt, donated by the aesthetic pressure of the society. Children must live without the need not to fit into a predetermined prototype. And here at our home, recently, the Association Against Anorexia and Bulimia has also conducted a study of more than five thousand adolescents between twelve and seven years old. Forty-sep_per_cent of these teenagers want to open up, and forty-u_per_cent diets without any medical supervision. I repeat: almost half the adolescents between twelve and seven years of age in Catalonia have had a diet without medical control. Diets that without control are very dangerous and end up triggering, as the companies have said, food conduct disorders. Diets that are far from seeking salvation, but that seek to modify the body in order to solve a few canons of beauty that see daily communication media or social networks, which, by the way, many of them are retouched and filtered, that is, that they are unreal, and that cause deep dissatisfaction in adolescents. And it is that the eating disorders among adolescents increased in pandemics to a sixty_per_cent, as pointed out by the medical director of Sant Joan de Deu. And you'll ask why. So for three basic factors: the isolation due to confinement, exposure to social networks and the breakdown of routines. And now I'll give you an example. This same week, on the eve of Penedès, a couple of people were complaining, showing off to the social networks the fact that they had passed her to her daughter, a four-year-old girl who, after leaving school, came home, went to the washbasin and her mother to enter the washbasin, found herself cutting her hair. And you'll ask yourself, "Why was a four-year-old girl cutting her hair? So the mother asked him, and the baby said to him, "It's just that my schoolmates say that the princesses have their hair long and long, and I have it resold. This is a clear example of the aesthetic pressure the company is putting on a four-year-old girl. Therefore, we have to work from home, from school, from advertising to communication media to reverse this tendency which seems to be very far from disappearing and which seeks something as basic as respect for difference, which, far from being a defect, is a virtue. Against stereotypes, it is necessary to give visibility to all things, because seeing is to recognize. And children and teenagers look for references, they need references, they need to know that all things are valid. All this from Juntes to Catalonia we believe that eradicating these stereotypes is eradicating one of the most men's rapes in our patriarchal society: the aesthetic pressure. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.154.0	After the defense of the papers presented, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, the deputy Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.155.0	Well, thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, Republican Left presents us with a motion on International Women's Day and the fight against aesthetic pressure. But this motion does not contain any initiative regarding International Women's Day. And it's logical, because that day, as you know, only serves as a propaganda slogan to promote confrontation between men and women. And I want to tell you, as a woman, that not in my name. What's more, I want to tell you that not on behalf of women who don't need to be protected or victimized by unfair laws that impose unequal treatment of men. [[some applause]] and that we do not need to impose the requirement of female quota appointments. And in this regard, I will dwell on the demand for women's quota, particularly because of the recent proposal by the European Union's social affairs ministers to adopt the proposal to set a quota of 40 % of women in the managerial positions of large companies. It is precisely with these initiatives that what is being proclaimed is that we, women, are incapable of obtaining a position of responsibility for our own merits and our own abilities, and that in this sense we have to rely on unfair laws to protect ourselves in a special way. And that we, in this case – I want to make it clear – do not have a series of shortcomings that make us inferior to men. And this is not equality. This is a contradiction, because the equality of men and women is not achieved by imposing the feminist supremacy that you seek to impose, which systematically violates the principle of equality. And we have for a long time seen how from public institutions they have been looking for different ways to confront society and use it for political purposes. They use all public resources and media loudspeakers as means of propaganda and popular pressure, for purely partisan purposes and with two very clear objectives, that one is the collectivization of women and provoke an unnecessary gender war between men and women. And they don't have enough to do with their causes, such as gender violence, sex education, abortion, menstrual poverty, witches – I don't know if they remember, the motion we had to talk about witches here in plenary – which today comes to us with the debate of aesthetic pressure. And one thing we deeply regret is that in their motion they use eating disorders to make politics. Because they mix it with ideological sectarianism. And this is a very serious and very serious issue to frivolize in this way. And it is such a serious and worrying issue that we consider and call for it to be addressed with the respect and seriousness that this issue deserves. Moreover, in their motion they also say that aesthetic pressure is violence against women, and this is not true. And again they frivolize in this sense with the word 'violence'. And we refuse to accept that you are having a very bad time with so-called aesthetic pressure, because those who are actually having a bad time are all those Catalans who are right now on the streets and who have difficulty reaching the end of the month and who have an impact on their food and consumption habits. And it is that this motion is a sign, once again, of how far away you live from reality, with which you are falling right now, with which you are falling into the families that we have on the streets of Catalonia and all of Spain, on the ground of war. Working families who have had to close down their economic activity and who are now asking for support and assistance from the administrations. And why do you worry? For his opulence and for his good life. And in this sense I ask you a little respect and less to talk about the sizes that tighten them. Help the Catalans who are having a bad time. More work and less walks through the Parliament of Catalonia with demanding T-shirts of advanced mannequin. So, please, seriousness and respect to this institution and to all Catalans, who are having a really bad time. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.156.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.157.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, I will start by making an appointment to one of the jobs of Rebecca Ibáñez Martín, Esther Mayoko Ortega and Eulalia Pérez Sedeño..., which is called Bodies and practices: a decade of ctg studies. The aesthetic ideas about the body are marked by the social, historical and cultural expectations of which the body must be. Therefore, it is necessary that the bodies complement the cultural expectations of male and female Westerners, whites, regulatory heterosexuality, and that their bodily marks be inscribed within these same expectations. The "aesthetic pressure – I make it work between comets", presented in this motion, is an important topic for Afro-feminisms and transfeminisms. The difference is the depth of the analysis and the nomenclature used. We are not talking about fighting the aesthetic pressure, but about abolishing the normalized bodies and regulating them to take over the rest of society. That includes the schisheteroma. And it may seem like a morning, but it's not at all. Above all, from the perspective of white supremacist privileges, it is not understood why the cure of aesthetics from an African-centered perspective is so important, and it is called for the abolition of the normalized bodies of superficial or accessory, not to deepen in the truly important. In fact, this is written long before we feel this intervention, but we have not seen a clear example in the previous intervention, because the profound psycho-emotional implications that involve for us, the subordinates, the others, the exclosures of this normativeity are not understood. Because it's not a matter of pressure, but in many cases it's a question of social exclusion and emotional exclusion. The regulation of the body is an attack on the relevance and conformation of its identity, and has material consequences on access to basic rights, such as housing, health or the labour market. This exclusion from regulation is what makes us girls of the way, neither here nor there, and be in perpetual transit. Black and African women are the furthest of the western standard, the respectable and presentable. And this has psycho-emotional consequences in the construction of our self-esteem, often irrecoverable and often attempted suicides, constant attacks on our skin and on our hairs, identity conflicts, problems related to family and non-Western cultural heritages, and a wide list of impacts that go much further than fitting into a concrete size, much more than single-personal affections and that begin far before adolescence. From childhood, we grow up under the pressure of being mass– risked mass, dark mass, ample mass, voluptuous mass–, if not sufficient– not sufficiently refined, smart enough, presentable enough. Let's remember at this point Sara Baartman to dimension well and avoid trivializing the black experience regarding the regulation of the body. This supports the dehumanization and cosification of black and African children under a crippling hypersexualization that involves adulthood and unprotectiveness before various abuses and rapes, and which, moreover, are systematically invisible for feminist movement. And in no case do they arouse the same indignation as the same rapes in young girls and white women. And I'm setting the example of the smaller Guinean traffic network in Majorca or the case of Huelva's timers and their impact. In addition to not being accepted into our natural essence, colonial processes have stolen the ancestral knowledge that accompanies the cure of our hairs and hairs. And, therefore, one of the pillars of our struggle is also to recover this knowledge. This relates our agenda to the defense of the earth, the natural products that it provides and the struggle against material and epistemic extractivism. I have been pointing to the centrality of the impact of normativeism on African identities, but, obviously, we are not just talking about normalized bodies with racial criteria, but about all those disagreements that, with their defiant bodies and identities, prevent the binary classification that so much seeks the capitalist gaze and that in five minutes I cannot fill. I ended up with a quote from Oyèronké Oyewùmí in her work The invention of women: "For those who occupy positions of power it is essential to impose biologic superiority as well as medium to ratify their privileges– I finish, President–" and dominate over others. The difference is understood as genetic inferiority, and this inferiority, at times, as the effective reason for situations of social disadvantage. Therefore, even considering that the motion presented deepens very little – I finish, President – in the difficult problem of imposing aesthetic norms in our society and has very little strength seeking agreements where we should firmly guarantee the compliment of existing and feminist standards, we will support the motion in most points. Thank you and good afternoon. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.158.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.159.0	Thank you, President. Aesthetic pressure, huh? – aesthetic pressure. You're gonna talk about rain to Noah. What do you think, Madam President? Are we talking about aesthetic pressure in this Parliament? They won't be able to tell me anything today, because I almost got dressed just like the president, let's go together. [[Rialles.]] Or else, today I was armored against the aesthetic pressure. Well, in this Parliament, we've seen a lot of absurd debates, not to mention stars, not to mention that, sometimes, we all seem to come here a little bit to do the shower. We've been here since morning asking for amnesty for the centmilloristic reprisals of the process and for the cremated witches for how many seconds ago. Yesterday, here too, to a former advisor of the Generalitat, to Mr Homrani, there was no other self-criticism of the political purges of the Catalan police than to complain that, in the debate on the subject, all the speakers were men, as if you thought that I would have said something different from what Mr Carrizosa said, or Mrs Borràs, of what Mr Aragonès said; well, bad example. Returning to the aesthetic pressure, it has to be recognized that the original Republican Left movement is of an inconsistency and of a poti-poti that it is not clear if it wants to fight against the discrimination of the people left for the beautiful people, if they want to ban by law who is beautiful and who is left... Certainly, it seems that you are only raising the aesthetic pressure as a female problem. What, men don't dance self-esteem? Doesn't it have any psychosocial implications when they create panxa or stay warm? Don't they feel sexually cosified if they put them in socks to make colony announcements? Isn't it worth a thousand euros to go through the O.R. to keep your ass like Antonio Flags? They didn't have to die to abuse Viagra or, even, the static bike, to look like a young woman and one of them they don't have anymore, but what do they think to be appreciated if they're required to have? [[Rialles.]] In the rigin, that's not a joke, huh? I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to make a statement on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that the original text should not be overstated. Thank you very much, we will be able to abstain in many ways, instead of voting directly against it. Clearly, I mean, it can be sensible, for example, to devote resources to food disorders and mental disorders that pass through the replenishment of the property, of the image itself. All right, all right, ask everyone I need to go to a psychologist. It is very good to make a touch of communication media so that they do not spread sexist and unworthy stereotypes. They could start by suppressing the unfortunate Bricoheroes program from the TV3 grail, which when there is not a move of theft, fan apologia of the fell·lacion; of the fell·lacion understood, above, as an ideological weapon against the monarchical institution. Aim for republican feminism. Come on. But, well, even all the things that some groups of this chamber are asking for and that are fine, that are well drawn out, do not alter the hard and substantial contradiction of this young man, which is: what aesthetic pressure is it that you think you can solve? You, who are incapable of thinking in terms of the rights and freedoms of the people, women included; you, who are only thinking in terms of the rights of the people and mantras collectius; you, who declare them to be a faixist, "colonio i" ñordo to whom you carry the control, who put many on the people to put bakery in place of "oven de pa", as my companion Joan García reminded them yesterday; you, who suffer more for the links and for the flags than for the people, people infinitely different and varied in the day to day. They're not able to come from a school that respects everyone's linguistic rights or makes you see it. Are they not able to respect the right of families to sort out the education of their children, and, in change, do they see the color of giving lessons to everyone of aesthetic or ethical pressure? Look, all the trouble that, in such a superficial, frivolous, contradictory and dogmatic way and in front of the gallery, you intend to approach with this young man would approach much better working actively in favor of a society with clear values of freedom, respect, personal dignity and right to think, be and seem different. Instead of putting the tribe and the process in the center of their negits, put the person. Instead of wanting everyone to take the step, accept everyone as it is and do not intend to change Catalonia either Catalans or Catalans or their language, their body or their way of looking at the Mirall, of living their beauty and sexuality. Put yourself in the service of whom you need help – put yourself in the truth, without retrieving resources – and stop punishing and taking people, who have not asked them to organize their lives; that we are already big and big, for that reason, because we are already, and because they are younger and more tender, they are already disconnected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.160.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.161.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mrs Díaz said, at the beginning of her speech, that it seems to us wrong that the parties supporting the Government should present their initiatives. It's not that I think it's wrong, it's that I think it's hypocritical, Mrs. Díaz. Because this rostrum is not the press coroner of the Palau de la Generalitat. I insist again: you have the mechanisms. You are here, Mrs. Counsellor, you have been created a council, precisely, to deal with these issues. So, I just didn't get it. It is not that we do not like it, it is simply that we find it very hypocritical, very hypocritical, above all, also taking into account if we see how, for example, you keep in your ranks deputies who made jokes about how the deputies were elected by the size of their breasts..., the counselors, by the size of their breasts. That's what transcended, but it's that he said more things, also serious, like saying that the Brazilians were results, too. Isn't that a sexist? Are you not perpetuating machismo from your ranks and come here to give our lessons to others of aesthetic pressure, sincerely? That is why I say to you that it seems very hypocritical to me that you come here to give these lessons to others and to tell us what we have to do or what we do not have to do or how well you are doing from the government. It really does not seem to me that this is a way of proceeding. And we also endure it every day in the control session, with those questions massaged between you, that the deputy reads the question and the counselor reads the answer, that you bring it more than prepared; it is that, please, a little respect to this chamber. And, look, this wasn't the speech I wanted to make. I wanted to focus on the points of this motion, but it is true that, during the debates, the topic has been very much focused on the disorders of food conduct, which is an issue that I, in particular, am concerned about, that I am very aware of it, which I have spoken about on other occasions, for example, in the debate on mental health. And, as the debate has centered around, instead of other issues with which I quite disagree with the wording of this motion, I too am going to focus there, because for nothing in the world I would like to think that at best Núria, which was quoted by Congresswoman Segovia, is listening to us or has the opportunity to listen to us and thinks that at best here we are frivolating with the pain of those families, with the pain of those parents, with the impotence of not knowing what to do in these cases. And I wouldn't want you to take that impression that there are motions here as I think it is, which are motions to mark ideological profile, which are motions to try to confront one group with another. And I wouldn't want those parents from their homes to think that's what we do here. So I'm going to change, I insist, the speech I brought prepared. And yes, it is true that women are subjected in many cases, we get inputs from all over for that aesthetic pressure, but I would also like us to think on the opposite side, because it also seems to me to be part of that hypocrisy. I do not see here at any point, for example, that we talk about elements such as the hijab, which involves being covered from wrists to feet on the pretext of not provoking men. That also seems to me to be a very clear element of macho oppression of women. And I don't see anyone here saying anything. [[Some applause.]] So, if you want to be credible on this issue – and I take advantage, counselor, who is here – if you want to be credible on this issue, let's get to work, but with everything – with everything – not with what is good for you, with the speech that is good for you and with the other one not; not to mark ideological profile; not to confront us among ourselves. Let's get to work really hard. Stop perpetuating some sexist stereotypes that have been cited here this afternoon as well. And you know that I asked you, in addition, in a control session precisely by the Bricoheroes program, which makes some comments that my mother. And you're the only one who just answered that, well, that was some other guy's joke. But the program's still on air, the program's still on air. And here no one has said anything, and on top of that we were tried to sell the movie that it was humor, that it was satire. No, no, That was disgusting and disgusting. That's what it was. So, do you really want to come here and teach others lessons? Start first by setting an example with this whole topic of aesthetic pressure, the fight against sexism and all the topics on which we want to constantly entice. Because I insist that I miss many points in this motion. We're gonna be responsible. We are going to vote in favour, I insist, of a number of points, because they focus, precisely, on the issue of disorders of food conduct and on other issues that we think are vital, but, frankly, they reflect a little bit before bringing on what issues here to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.162.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.163.0	Thank you, President. Well, I think it's good to have this full seat so I can prove that there's a majority in this Parliament. Each of the groups, obviously, with its nuances, with its own way of addressing the questions of aesthetic pressure, even in the way we call it, right? But they share the importance of fighting this problem and, therefore, of hearing that it is a real problem, that we do not say that it only affects women, but that, like so many other issues, it affects women above all. Because this ideal of inexhaustible beauty has probably always been considered a little political or a little important, from the private sphere, like so many other questions that have been feminine and, therefore, closed in the domestic sphere. The Grau made a joke about the coincidence of the stuff between the president and her, but the reform of the law against male violence that we had made in the past legislature precisely incorporated the scope of politics as a space of male violence, precisely because we understand that the pressure on women who are in the public sphere can ultimately limit their free development, as Segovia said, and also their political participation. So here, to frivolitize, people not even. We also had a demonstration of what white feminism is exactly applauded for the extreme right. And to the lady of VOX, I would like to say that you say we have a seat to confront men and women. Does it seem to you that there is little confrontation between men and women today in society? [[Some applause.]] Does it seem to you that there is little confrontation between us, that we are being raped, that we are being murdered, that we are being mistreated, that we are covering less, that we have less representation, that we need quotas in order to be able to develop our tasks, to reach the same places as the lords? Does that sound like a little confrontation to you? Because I don't think so. Therefore, here, to frivolize and to do... you say that there has been little seriousness and respect. What we ask is a minimum of decency. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.164.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that the vote on this point is going to produce a final round of this, the next round of the order of the day, the twenty-and-nine point. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the Administration of Justice]] [[302-00119/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the Administration of Justice, presented by the Parliamentary Group VOX. And he has the word, to make his presentation, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.165.0	Well, thank you, President. VOX has tabled a motion with thirteen points and eight concrete proposals to improve three objective realities of justice in Catalonia. On the one hand, in Catalonia they are missing judges. Many courts in Catalonia are scandalously above the workload recommended by the General Council of the Judiciary. Even the councilwoman was demanding last week in the face of the brutal increase in thefts in Catalonia, in Barcelona, the opening of a second court of custody to hold immediate trials, because these already take more than a hundred days to hold; therefore, immediately they have little. And, therefore, they are missing, as we say, judged. At this point we have put forward the following proposals. On the one hand, that a concrete plan be drawn up for the creation of courts in Catalonia so that legal operators can know by specific dates what the priorities of the Government are. And, on the other hand, whether these priorities are in line with the recommendations of the TSJ Governing Chamber, and that this plan is then presented to the Government of Spain. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. I'm sorry, I feel more like you than I do myself. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. Secondly, once and for all, within two years the new judicial office is implemented in all the parties of Catalonia, because in thirteen years only the judicial office has been implemented in half. Second reality: judges are missing in Catalonia. The Government Chamber has just said that the staffing deficit in Catalonia has reached its highest level in ten years. And this lack of judges, as I said in the interpellation, has concrete causes: mainly, the separatist pressure, which is and has been decisive. In four years two hundred and eleven judges have gone, and only twenty-three have asked to come voluntarily to Catalonia. The counselor the other day said it wasn't true and asked the president of the TSJ. And, look, Mr Barrientos, who is a respectable man, who exercises his institutional office with neutrality, has said in a very fine way that the social climate in Catalonia, of course, does not help the judges to stay. It was clearer that his colleague Pablo Baró, president of the Professional Association of the Magistrature – spokesperson, better said, of the Professional Association of the Magistrature –, said that the judges do not want to come to Catalonia today as they did not want to go to the Basque Country twenty years ago. Therefore, I do not say it; judges say it. At this point, we have put forward a number of concrete measures, but we want to highlight one: the claim to the State for a territorial wage supplement for judges, judges and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as the Chamber of Government has repeatedly claimed, to receive this supplement in order to encourage their arrival, the permanence and the roots of the judges in Catalonia. And, thirdly, the third reality of Catalan justice is that workload suffered by Catalan courts. And here we propose a number of measures. First, the empowerment of out-of-court mediation, through, for example, registrar mediation, of property registrars, who in matters such as inheritance, property or ownership communities would undoubtedly help to decongest the reality of the courts. And we have to make it known to lawyers, real estate agents and other professionals in the sector. A digital justice plan, a digital justice plan with concrete lines of action and projects is needed. Look, in other communities they've already done it. The Basque Country, for example, has a plan, 2021-2026, of digital justice, with nine lines of action and thirty-five concrete projects. And we wonder: what plan does the council have to work on digital immediacy or artificial intelligence applied to justice? We must work on digital immediacy, that is, the possibility of citizens and professionals appearing in the courts in a telematic way, without the need to physically move to the court, with the saving of time and money that this entails for all of them. For this, it is an essential requirement, as you can imagine, that the identity of the person who is to appear telematically is accredited. And that is why the ministry is already working on its own application, which is called the Justice Key, so that the official can safely identify the persons involved in these acts at a distance. And we wonder: what is the Generalitat of Catalonia doing about it? We don't know. A point on artificial intelligence. The Ministry of Justice has already begun to implement artificial intelligence in justice, for example, with the system called Forensic Dictate for the reports of forensic doctors, through a very successful pilot test being carried out, for example, in Murcia. We believe that Catalonia is losing the digital train, and we do not see that the Department of Justice is leading this issue of digital justice, which is basic for agile justice, an effective justice, a justice of the twenty-first century. And finally, a binding reference also to civil records. The new map of civil registers, which, as you know, are now called General Offices in the provincial capitals and Collaborating Offices in the rest of the municipalities, needs to be implemented. And it is necessary to equip them with the computer media and the personnel necessary and trained so that they can develop the new telematics system of the register called to replace the paper, which is the Dicireg, and currently only works in Madrid and Barcelona. The Generalitat has not budgeted the Dicireg this year and will not be able to implement it in time, for example, in Tarragona, where it was planned to start operating on 9 May. There are no scanners, no personal absence and no necessary training has been given to judicial officials, training they should have received – and this is known by the Justice Council – last February, and it has not been done. So, finally, in VOX we have clear measures to be taken to improve justice in Catalonia. That is why we have tabled these eight specific proposals, which we hope deserve the approval of the groups in this House. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.166.0	Since no papers have been submitted, then, to fix his position, he has the word, first of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.167.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers in Parliament, good afternoon to everyone. Miri, you know, Mr. Macián, that I have a deep respect for him personally and professionally in the field of justice. And, given his profession, it is undeniable that he has a knowledge of the problems of the Administration of Justice. When she read her face, she tried to do it as I always do, in a skeptical way, in an objective and unharmed way. As a result of this reading, there are redundant petitions or some that we believe are already being made, so we also find that there is a lack of a more purposeful style, since it only seems to make a diagnosis, without proposing the remix. As I said, the content of the motion could be likely to be approved or amended at some point, if I cannot vote in favour of it. I'll explain. As I said, I have a lot of personal respect for him, but ideologically he separates a cosmic distance from us. The game you represent is a game that defends a vision of the old world; in fact, it's old and old. His way of seeing the world is retrograde. The world that you want is sad, grey, homogeneous, monotonous, and, as that said, odorless and colourless. With how nice the arch of Sant Martí is. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the world you want is not the world I want for my girls. His way of seeing the world is a society where the flags are above people, where the country stands as supreme, etheric, metaphysical value and swallows it all at its own pace. I don't want this old country you want. I love Catalonia, Spain, Europe and the aliens, if they ever come or are already among us. I don't want your country. I want the homeland of Jorge Luis Borges, when he said: "No one is a homeland, we are all. I can't vote in favour of a proposal from your party when we have to hear every plenary session of your xenophobic, populist speeches that use human passions for your electoral interest. Passions they feed to differentiate one person from another, to make us and others. Yesterday we were going to hear from your group president and you yourself make a speech and re-sign those new people as the cause of all the evils of the universe. I'm not surprised by the little memory that you have of being human respecting your history. It's not really us, the Spaniards, the ones we were going to look for a better life out of the world. I can't vote in favour of a member of your party because I'm amazed at his ideology; I'm amazed because I know where the extremes are, because I know that there are lines that when he's above there's no return. Because I'm very aware of what instincts they're trying to make grow and what use they'd make of these. And a lot of people think it's not the way to fight this extreme ideology. I don't think so. To fight ideologically, to fight by comparing ideas and stripping their true intentions is the only way to end their extremism. Catalan nationalism has already done and is doing enough harm to this land as it is because we also have Spanish nationalism now, so that it is mutually feedback and making this evil endure forever. A party that denies Europe and the Europeanist project, a party that openly says that male violence does not exist, a party that considers that family is only the one that is heterosexual, white and Catholic. And, of course, when they repeat until they are satisfied that they are "walking through the neighbourhoods of Catalonia..., I think they are sufficiently dispelled by this theory with a person like me, who knocks on bars of truth. So let's learn, the right ones, how are the barrels of Catalonia. And I recognize that they also have brilliant moments – I also recognize that – as their infinite ability to invent – they look senseless, and still have less content, so as to try to give them their theories. And in dic some – avui n'he après un parell plus –: « multicultural left-wing goodism, « fiscal hell, « globalist agendas, « demographic winter, « ecosuicides, « feminist dictatorship, « gender delusions, « climate religion, « cancellation culture, « progressive consensus of the elites, « hysterical memory – good – and the better of all, the de« sociocommunist conspiracy to end Spain. [[Rialles.]] Mirin, these expressions do not think that they are the fruit of an Aquarius moment of some sort of VOX that has been carried by the efflux of nationalism enmigred from a patriotic dinner, but consist by writing to a document that is on the web that is called Agenda España. And yes, I do, I took this trouble to read it, and I can assure them that their prose is not Stefan Zweig's. But the shortage of literary quality is not the danger; the danger is that if they leave it to write, what will they not do? I did not forget that justice is the only force that can defend the weak respect the powerful. His view of the world is less the defense of the weak. His world is the law of the strongest. And while the Party of Socialists of Catalonia exists – and I can assure you that it will be for a long and long time – we will fight because its view of the world is only that, a view that does not reflect on reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.168.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.169.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... as well as us, as it could not be otherwise, we will vote against this motion presented for VOX. To the young lady, there is the word harassment. It is one of the words they have in the dictionary of their group, the same way that in other areas they have clear words, as well as that they use recurrently. Mr Viñuales did not put any on the table; I could also put 'greenhouses', 'catanazis','multicultural tern. And when we talk about justice, these dictionaries use the word harassment. The motion asks the Government of the Generalitat to promote the necessary measures to prevent harassment of judges by public bodies with political responsibilities through actions and declarations calling for their independence and impartiality and neutrality. But what harassment are you talking about? Did we donate? What are the feelings that have to be condemned for harassment? And now they're coming here, in this cliff, and they're talking to us about the Basque Country? For another band, we are already wearing a year of the Commission of Justice and we do not see that your group has absolutely put forward any proposal for a resolution or specific petition in relation to this harassment in relation to any judgment you exercise in Catalonia. Or I look at the order of the day, because we may have to discuss it at the next session of the Justice Commission, and I only see that they have put forward a motion for a resolution to repudiate President Companies. For another band, what measures do you have in mind when they talk about what the government is doing? What are you thinking, putting jealousy in people's mouths? It must not be that, when they speak of harassment, with this hyperbolic use that you always make of language, what they mean is that they are referring to criticism of the judiciary? Mirin, it is that the resolutions of the judiciary, as well as the resolutions of the executed power or of the legislative power, can be object of criticism. Or should there be one who has not voted for it and who, moreover, has a system of operation for the top part of the pyramid, which is a pact between the great political parties, which cannot be objected to by any scrutiny? Is that what you're asking for? In fact, you, who stand up as defenders of this state of law... is there any article, any law that I prohibited from expressing a disagreement with a judicial resolution? I don't know her. I also know that the same Constitutional Court says that judicial resolutions may be subject to criticism. And if at any point there's anything that goes beyond this legitimate criticism of judicial resolutions, the same system, right? That you say you're... this state of right already has their lives. He already has the right's demands to honor, the quarrels. And I, as long as there were many years ago, couldn't find that you've stopped anyone for this harassment. Therefore, requiring the Government to take ex ante measures, in a preventive manner, only has a name and this is said to be censure. Returning to harassment, I will also tell you that precisely a few years ago a resolution was issued by the Madrid Provincial Court against its political party, VOX, in which the Court specifically recriminates you, VOX, who abuse resources in a proceeding to constantly question the impartiality and objectivity of the investigation and the investigating court. It turns out, therefore, that one of the resolutions in which harassment is laid down precisely has been dictated against you. [[Some applause.]] Based on all this idea of the harassment built, that you connect with uncertainty and a social climate against Catalonia, the need to demand a wage supplement derives. Mirin, this complement of destiny is claimed since the year 2008 for the Professional Association of the Magistracy. Second place, it's already recognizable in other places in the Spanish territory. And, on the other hand, judges who are dedicated to instructing macro-causes of corruption, investigating police plots, pursuing criminal crime at the international level, weapons dealers, drug traffickers, murderers, all these judges who have truly dangerous instructions on the table, you do not say absolutely re. They are only dedicated to this harassment that there is to the judgments destined for Catalonia. Look, please, look for the judges who want to do their job well and who, in order to do it well, sometimes touch you. Because these are the judgments that need to be protected. I could also refer to a whole report that is on the website of the General Council of the Judiciary, which is an issue that is done about the judiciary. Precisely, the greatest concern of every judge in Catalonia is the politicization of justice, that is, the constant use of justice to resolve political disagreements. And, precisely, you're the very best paradigm of that. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.170.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.171.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, this young man from VOX is a young man who talks about the workload of the workers and workers of justice, the lack of time available to fill vacancies, the shortage of judicial bodies or to drive a digital transformation, among many other aspects. And that's what VOX asks, a party that systematically votes against all the proposals that are put forward to reduce inequalities, both in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies, as in any of the parliaments that have a presence. You always vote against improving people's lives, and not just in justice, but in education, in salvation, in culture, in the end, in everything. A game many times with a racist and xenophobic speech, which the only one looking for is confrontation, today talks to us about justice. Talk about justice. We all know the shortcomings of this Administration and the need to increase its assumptions with an endowment of human resources, economic resources, appropriate technology in order to implement an effective and transparent justice system. In our group we understand justice as a public service and, therefore, oriented towards people, equal for all and for all and giving, therefore, answered in a timely and effective way. Each day is more urgent the need for an audit to assess its real situation, design action plans for a structural change that guarantees efficiency, efficiency, specialisation and proximity to the city. And from our group we have already put forward several times some of our proposals, such as articulating mechanisms of civic participation to improve transparency and accountability of the Administration, an increase and stabilization of the seedlings, improving the judicial buildings appropriate to the totality of its judges to the real needs of justice, or implementing specific judgments in masculist violence in the territory, guaranteeing the protection of women and children who suffer from male violence; also lowering the requirements required for the recognition of the right to free justice. Therefore, many proposals that we have made from our group and that we will continue to make in the field of justice. But, finally, this young man that we see is a more descriptive than a purposeful one, who doesn't even have a few. They ask us to vote for measures to be approved by the Congress of Deputies, which obviously depend on the State, such as implementing remunerative measures for the courts, for the lawyers, for the prosecutors, or as the wage complement of the destination, which should be approved in the general assumptions of the State. They ask to push the new judicial office, an office that has already proved ineffective and little resolution. Or, on the out-of-court measures of item 10, everyone knows what happens when a public service is outsourced or privatized. And, obviously, we don't agree with that either. In point 12, on the line of scholarships for opponents and opponents, what really should be done is that it does not set itself up as required by the compromise not to work during the four years of study, which is what it is now. A measure, therefore, unfeasible for the majority of the citizenry. Or on civil registers, which are already developed; only to continue giving the same service where it is shared. I could go on and on about many points of this young man, but I honestly believe he doesn't. Therefore, it is clear that our group will not support this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.172.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.173.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me to say four things, four things about this motion and the things that have been heard here. Look, the first thing is that Mr Sergio Macián is, like many other Members of VOX, a very polite, well-arranged person; he is a person who seems very reasonable, he is a judicial secretary, he understands what he's talking about, he knows what he's talking about. And that's why sometimes that speech, which sometimes has to be described as disgusting, that they have from their ranks, as, for example, yesterday when I heard them talk about security, and they did it in tremendous terms to instill fear in the population, exactly as the entire far right of the world does. The whole alt-right of the world speaks thus, in those terms, of security, and blames collectives for their nationality, and it is an absolutely repugnant and identifiable speech. But you, however, are an educated person, who even comes to look naive when you say, as you said here today..., you have fired with that know-how saying: "We hope this motion deserves the approval of this chamber. And I thought: "That is naivety, because no one is going to approve it. No one is going to approve this motion, because..., and we have heard why. And I say to them: in spite of that disgusting speech..., which seemed to me, so I say, and these things we do not usually say like this, but to me it seemed disgusting the way you referred to Algerians, Moroccans, security; it seemed to me repugnant and proper to the far right. However, this motion is well founded and correct, and it speaks of justice. And justice is a social good of first necessity. And here in Catalonia it seems to me also disgusting – and it is – Mr Quim Torra's speech with the mad beasts and the speeches we hear and the attitudes we see of people who refuse to sign a motion, to vote for something because it is in Spanish and not in Catalan. And that same repugnance, that same far right that we see in independence, sometimes causes it other parties that are elsewhere in the bench. And I vote the same if it seems to me that the Junts per Catalunya, which for me now also represent the ultra-right in Catalonia – represent it, represent it –..., and vote. And like the ultra-left of the CUP; I also vote for some things. And as I vote for the commons, they are populists who are ruling with the socialists. That Mr Viñuales comes out here and says..., and he gets exquisite and says he won't vote because he's so far away from what the gentlemen of VOX say and he's so far away that he's not going to vote for a lot of things that are absolutely fair to justice, that you know it very well, too; that you, who represent a party that is in government with the commons, should improve. That it is true that judges should have a retributive supplement to stay in Catalonia; that it is true, Madam spokesman of the UPC, that judges are harassed, and they are harassed by word, work and omission, as the catechism said before. They are harassed with continuous statements that attack their independence – in short. They are harassed by the work: the houses are painted; Judge Llarena, the prosecutor Magaldi, was harassed by you in your private houses. Because you do, you and your youth. If they harass parties, if they harass parents and students in schools for demanding that their rights to speak in Spanish be respected. And we get the rest of the groups... We are made exquisite and, above all, we are made exquisite by the socialists and they will not vote, when it turns out that the courts are really overwhelmed, when it turns out that the Generalitat does nothing but attack a judicial power that they call «repressor, that..., underdoing what with the budgets and having what as the ashes of all the councils of Catalonia, a good of first necessity as justice is. So, gentlemen, less hypocrisy. We can very much disagree with many things of VOX, with many things of the UPC, with many things of the common, but these sanitary cords are anti-democratic and go against the population, their rights and the services that we, as Members of Parliament, are obliged to provide. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.174.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.175.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. The truth is that I would now stop to ask the chairman of the committee if the councilwoman was not in the Chamber because she had some compromise. He tells me he doesn't know. Well, the truth is, it seems to me... if you don't have some commitment, it seems disrespectful to me. Perhaps he is there in the office accounting for judgements in Catalan, which seems to be the only thing that concerns Mrs Ciuró about the situation of the administration of justice. Because, moreover, when asked – and she knows it perfectly well, because it is her profession and knows what the state of the courts is – she denies it and tells us about other issues that have nothing to do with it and that, above all, are not the priorities. It seems to me that it is a good motion, that it is a very technical motion, that it is a very realistic motion and that it is a motion that is drafted from the internal knowledge of what happens precisely in the Administration of Justice of Catalonia. And, therefore, we are going to support this motion, because supporting this motion means supporting the staff of these courts, which is overtaken; which does not have the judicial office and where it has been established does not have sufficient resources; which sees how the department ignores its claims year after year, after year; which sees that the places of judges remain vacant, with that judicial exodus that we have lived here in Catalonia, especially since 2017. You guys do the math. What happened in 2017? Why do we have this judicial exodus? You don't have to be too smart to tie the ropes either. It was said from this rostrum that they do not understand those expressions, right? , to talk about harassment, to what we mean by harassment. Well, I think it's very clear. To force a court secretary to leave a building on the roof is to harass. Go to Judge Llarena's house, paint him at the door of his house, also identify his wife's work, that's harassing the judges. Throwing garbage and excrement at the gates of the courts, that's harassing and, besides, it's also a little messy, so they understand me. I mean, so you think the judges want to come to Catalonia? Really? Are you surprised by the judicial exodus we have? Are you surprised that judges will have to be forced to come here with forced places, which, of course, leave the year, as soon as they can attend a transfer competition? They honestly come here to ask what we mean when we talk about harassing judges? Really? And they say that we have the word ‘ harassing' in the dictionary? Some look like they're wearing it in DNA. To be honest, there are things that must therefore have the face of armed cement to come here to do with these issues. Look, I want to talk about one of the points, too. It is not going to give me time to enter everyone, but one that seems to me to be fundamental, which is the subject of wage supplementation, which is reflected in point 7. The motion also acknowledges that the Chamber of Government of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia – of Catalonia, those here – are concerned about this situation. They talk about this problem that has been going on for decades in Catalonia, and I insist that it has worsened since 2017. The General Council of the Judiciary also called for this salary supplement. We, from the People's Party in Congress, have also asked for that salary supplement. And, by the way, the Socialist Party refused it, but the numbers are on the table. No one wants to come to Catalonia, because no one wants to be insulted, no one wants to be identified, pointed out, filled with paints or that, when he goes into his job, he has to take the garbage away. We therefore, of course, advocate this wage supplement. We do it here in the Parliament of Catalonia, but we also do it since the Congress of Deputies. And it seems to us that it would therefore be a measure to try to alleviate this desertification that we are living from the judicial plant. I insist that it is a pity that Mrs Ciuró is not here this afternoon, but, well, that also shows the priorities and what matters to her justice, the Justice Administration of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.176.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.177.0	Thank you, President. To see how, after the two brilliant interventions that preceded me, I can raise this. [[Rialles.]] They bring us a figurative motion to speak of justice; very extensive, with thirteen points, but only to read it, as it has already appeared, to prove that it is a cluster of demagogies and ignorance – a cluster of demagogies and ignorance. Justice in Catalonia and Spain – justice in Catalonia, unfortunately, is justice in Spain – has two great problems: a problem of efficiency and a very particular problem that has a great transcendence, called lawfare. Justice must be effective and impartial. The day we want to talk seriously about these issues, we'll talk about it, but I'd advise you on a little reading. As far as the issue of efficiency of justice is concerned, it is all written. I recommend a book entitled Efficiency and transparency of the Spanish judicial system in the European context, by Dret Processal of the University of Barcelona, studying the causes for which justice in Catalonia and Spain does not work, which is what needs to be done to improve it. And, as I said, justice in the case of Catalonia..., in the case of Spain too, but very blatantly in the case of Catalonia. In Spain they think there are approximately 5,500 judges and magistrates. Most of them do a very good job, taking into account the great precariousness of media because of the organization, the disorganisation, the chaotic organization of the system. But there is a statistically small problem, but of great social importance, which is called lawfare. Justice must be effective. But, more efficient, it has to be fair. You know that justice is represented with the image of this theme. It's one of those things that wears the eyes full because it's only fixed on the facts and it doesn't distinguish who's ahead; it doesn't judge people for their ideas, but it does judge them for their facts. And I advise you an excellent book by a professor of political science, jurist and professor of political science, who is said to be Damia del Clot; a book that is said to be Lawfare, which has so successfully been translated into English, to explain what happens that Spanish justice does not act with neutrality, with the impartiality that it should do. Justice, therefore, as I said, should be effective and impartial, neutral. You don't want an effective justice; you want a justice in black and white. And I'm afraid they don't want neutral justice either. They don't want a blind justice; they want a blind justice. In concrete terms, what you want is justice in the face of the sun. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.178.0	I, finally, have the word the deputy of Republican Esquerra, the lady Ana Balsera. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Balsera, I've filled his hemicicle. When you want... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.179.0	Now I feel a little pressured. I'll try to make a good speech. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... I would like to begin my intervention by pointing out the importance of the Justice Administration and a thank you to all the professionals who are dedicated to it for their task. The negative part of being the last is that many of the things we wanted to say have been said before. Therefore, I will try not to repeat myself, even if I have to make some comments. To Mr. Carrizosa, as much as he's made out of most groups and not ours, Republican Left, I'd like to say he's compared, right? , made a reference to the VOX speech as a speech of extreme right. And I'd like to remind you of Valls' speech to Barcelona, which was also a very right speech. [[Greetings.]] So the connections are there. We, of course, do not share the model of justice administration of the extreme right. Actually, we don't share a model with the extreme right. Share me that we want is a pro-fair, agile and effective justice; a feminist justice with a gender perspective; a justice in catalá; a restorative and not only punitive justice, and a justice also of alternative resolution of conflicts. And this is our model. And you, gentlemen of VOX, come here with this young man, don't you? This claim to want to improve the administration of justice, but the truth is that every time there is some intervention or measure to improve it, you vote against it. Well, in fact, you vote against any measure that can improve any area. And they come here with this young man, too, with some statements that they're certainly not. I want to highlight one, which was also made by the CUP's companion: « Cal promotes actions to prevent – and say vostès – « harassment and widespread and constant harassment of judges and magistrates by public officials through actions and declarations that question their independence and neutrality. And I'm gonna be right here. I act out of respect for the company Meritxell Serret, for the Marta Rovira, for the Carme Forcadell, for the Dolors Bassa, for the Oriol Junqueras, the Raül Romeva, the Jordi Turull, the Jordi Cuixart, the Jordi Sánchez, Josep Rull, Quim Forn and the rest of the companies and companies of the exile, like President Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] Also, for more than three thousand people retaliated to independence, because we do not forget that the independence cause has more than three thousand retaliated people. So, when you talk about harassment and harassment, it's not judges and magistrates; harassment and harassment is what we independents live through. This is harassment and harassment and lack of neutrality. And now, returning to the model of Administration of Justice that we want from the Republican Left, we bet for a justice, but indeed, with capitals, an independent justice, which guarantees rights and freedoms. Because we understand the Administration of Justice as an essential public service and, like the list that made the principle, a pro-fair, agile and effective justice. And it's true that it's a modernization, but there's already a lot going on in this sense, like the Justice program, the telematics, less paperwork. And we have to give faster answers. It's true, they can't have procedures that last from three years. A feminist justice with a gender perspective. We live in a patriarchal system, but so is justice. There are legal proceedings that they do are revictimizing, and many times question and do not bring effective protection. A justice in Catalan, because it is unacceptable that we only have a set_per_cent of judicial resolutions in Catalan language. We need to dignify our linguistic rights. A declarative, restorative and not only punitive justice, because not everything is solved by criminal code. Justice is also an alternative resolution of conflicts. And we complain that the jutjats are collapsed– and, in fact, they are – but we fill our mouths, at the same time, to talk about mediation, and we do not make a clear bet. It is important to encourage alternative conflict resolution. This is the Republican Left model, for a nimble, effective, catal and feminist justice. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2022-03-24-2703.180.0	All right. So, after the debate, we will now proceed to the vote on the motions for substance this late. We shall begin voting on motions incorporating the agreed drafts and drafts. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system (continuation)]] [[302-00116/13]] We begin by voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the return of hydroelectric power plants to the public system. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 111 votes in favour, 12 votes against, 5 abstentions and one person who does not vote. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. It was approved by 82 votes to 17, with 30 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. This point was approved with 82 votes in favour, 47 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into audiovisual production in Catalan (continuation)]] [[302-00117/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into audiovisual production in Catalan. Let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. This point was approved with 95 votes in favour and 34 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 95 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 112 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting the five-a-point now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 15 votes against. And finally, we vote on point number 6. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour, 15 votes against, 2 abstentions. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved with 114 votes in favour and 15 votes against. And finally, we vote for the rest of the points. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 112 votes in favour and 17 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the International Day of Donations and the fight against aesthetic pressure (continuation)]] [[302-00118/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the International Day of Donations and the fight against aesthetic pressure. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. This point was approved with 103 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 16 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 106 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 13 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number seven. The vote begins. This point was approved with 112 votes in favour and 17 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 114 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of the Administration of Justice (continuation)]] [[302-00119/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the situation of the Administration of Justice. As there is no separate motion for a vote, we will vote on the original text of the motion as a whole. The vote begins. This motion was not approved with 17 votes in favour and 111 votes against. Let's raise the session. Thank you very much.
